ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e56	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Right 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e65	Ot. pp. No 58, if the law on changes to the criminal law and the police law includes measures against the illegal use of knives and firearms. Several legislative changes are proposed in the proposal to combat illegal use of weapons. Firstly, proposals for amendments to the Police Act are being made to extend access to visits to weapons. Secondly, it is proposed to increase the penalties for the person who carries a knife in public places and the person who grabs a knife during a fight, from three to six months. The Ministry also proposes to increase the penalties for illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. In recent years, the crime of violence has been more marked than in the past by the use of weapons, and in particular the use of knives. The brutal attacks in a Moss discotheque, and now last outside a nightclub in Oslo, clearly show that the need for intrusion is present. In the summer of 1999, the Storting adopted a temporary clause 10(a) of the Police Act, which allows the police, under detailed conditions, to visit people in public places. In 1998, the carrying of firearms in public places was criminalised for no legitimate reason. Int. S. No 186 for 2000-2001 the Justice Committee asked the Government to assess whether the penalty framework for carrying a knife in a public place should be lifted. In the context of the consultation round on proposals for various legislative measures to combat terrorism, this consultation note also included proposals to increase the penalties for carrying and using knives and for holding firearms and ammunition. The Criminal Procedures Act authorises the use of coercive measures, including: search, as part of criminal prosecution. This presupposes compelling grounds for suspecting that a criminal offence has taken place. The police law, on its side, authorizes action to prevent crime. Under Section 7 of the Police Act, police can intervene in order to stop disturbances of public order and order. Paragraph 10(a) of today provides a temporary rule on extended access to visits after weapons. The presence of a person shall be possible at a public place, in situations or in places where violence is easily experienced, where there is reason to examine whether the person is in possession of weapons. Today's visit to Section 10(a) shall normally be carried out as planned and preferably by technical means. New Section 7 of the Police Act provides for a visit without technical assistance. Providing the police with extended opportunities to visit after weapons, and increasing the penalties for carrying knives and gripping knives during fights, gives the public better protection against the criminals. Police have been without the necessary powers to search both persons and cars in public places for the purpose of averting the use of knives and firearms. The police are now given the opportunity not only to search people, but, in fact, also to take care of people in prison if necessary. This is a necessity because of the unprovoked violence and the ever lower thresholds that some now have for using knives and weapons in battle. Extended powers for the police and intensified criminal responses will give criminals clear information on where the tolerance limit is going. There shall be zero tolerance for the use and storage of knives and firearms in the public space, both on the body and in cars placed easily accessible. It is important to note the procedural simplifications proposed in relation to § 10a of today, which involve simpler decision-making procedures and easier decision-making powers for the police in the enforcement of the law. The intention to have an effective and fast-acting police force makes it necessary for decision-making competence to be simplified rather than under Section 10(a) of the Police Act. In many situations, especially at night and on weekends, when the infringements often occur, it will be impractical for the police with unrelenting formal procedures to search persons and vehicles. The need for search may in many cases arise acutely and at unforeseen times, and there are also different needs in the various police districts. In addition, the extent of crime varies from place to place. It is therefore essential for the Ministry and the Police Directorate to give special attention to the opinion delivered by the Joint Police Association, namely that a decision on visitation should be taken by a person with a presence and professional competence. On this basis, the Committee calls on the Ministry to find a delegation appropriate for the various police districts so that the ability to search cars and persons does not fail as a result of rigid internal police procedures. Jan Simonsen goes in his Document No. 8-proposals much longer than the proposition and setting in terms of search methods and penalties. Simonsen wants no claim to be made on the place or situation where violence is experientially easily exercised, or on the prior consent of the policeman or his deputy, or on the use of technical means. A law firm that embraces so far is likely to violate Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The majority of the Committee therefore disagrees with this proposal but points out that, in line with the ministry, the majority position has some common features with Simonsen's proposals. The rest of Simonsen’s proposals, which essentially mean a significant increase in the level of penalties for knife use with physical impairment or death, will be returned to the Department in the follow-up to the Criminal Fellov Commission’s sub-committee VII. The Workers' Party and SV propose a system of receipts for the police in case of visitation. Such a system will be unnecessarily bureaucratic and cumbersome to the police, considers the majority of the committee to be composed of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Such access shall be provided on a daily basis at Norwegian airports in order to ensure the safety of travellers. In parallel, one might say that public order considerations are heavier than privacy in this context. In addition, it is only in exposed public places, at special times and under the authority of the operator or watchman that such a visit is carried out. The facts from the submission of the proposition, i.e. the proposals that will have a majority here today, are: increased access for the police to the visit of vehicles and persons, Section 7 of the Police Act extended investigation methods, i.e. Paragraphs 202b and c of the Criminal Procedures Act, such as technical detection and various means of detection of perpetrators and organised crime, are adopted, the penalty framework is lifted from six to ten years for particularly intensifying circumstances, for illegal acquisition and/or possession of firearms and ammunition, § 161 of the Penal Code is lifted for the person who carries a knife in a public place, § 352a of the Criminal Code, and for the person who grabs a knife in a fight, § 385 of the Criminal Code, from fines or imprisonment up to three months for fines or imprisonment up to six months, or both. At the same time, the suspect will be able to be apprehended and sent to custody if the above conditions are met In addition, the Stortinget has previously adopted the establishment of a new weapons register so that it will well also come back to the Government. This may also include an assessment of whether hails acquired before 1 October 1990 are to be included in such a register.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e121	The Workers’ Party supports the Government’s proposal for changes to the Police Act to extend access to the post-weapon visit and also the changes to the Criminal Act which increase the criminal framework of the person who carries a knife in a public place and is attacking a knife during a fight, as well as the lifting of the criminal framework for the illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. Crime of violence is greater than it was before, and in particular, the use of weapons. Only during the spring we've been through now, we've witnessed several killings in which a knife has been used as a weapon. There is therefore a need to strengthen the criminal framework, but also to give the police an increased opportunity to visit and apprehension. With regard to the use of visits, there are some external limits that we cannot exceed. In Article 8, the European Convention on Human Rights – the ECHR – has a provision protecting privacy and family life. Being stopped on the street and being visited by the police is in itself an intervention in privacy. In order not to conflict with the EMK, the visit shall be carried out in order to achieve one or more of the objectives referred to in Article 8. [[2]] In 1997, Stortinget endorsed the establishment of a national weapons register. It will contribute to a significant simplification of the police's job and give us an overview of how much weapons really exist in this country. The police department believes that today there are almost a million unregistered weapons. The Committee now calls for this register of weapons and asks for it to be put in place as soon as possible. In addition, the majority, all except the government parties, consider it important to impose registration obligations on hail in connection with the establishment of the weapons register. Several reports have shown that many people with a minority background experience being stopped disproportionately often in the streets by the police. There is no doubt that such a type of control can be a heavy burden on law-abiding persons with a minority background. The authorities have also recognised that. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party therefore believe it is time to put in place a system of police receipts when they make a visit. This proposal is important for several reasons. Firstly, the controller will be able to demonstrate the frequency of the checks. Secondly, it will be possible to prove to new inspectors when they were last checked. Thirdly, we will comply with the recommendation of the European Commission on Racism and Intolerance — ECRI — to establish a monitoring system to ensure that the frequency is documented. In this way, you can get an overview of the extent of that problem and how it is species. And fourth, it can give the police incentives to make the necessary changes if it turns out that the problem is real and comprehensive. Such a system already exists in England, and I think it is now time that it is also introduced in Norway. I am surprised, however, that the government parties cannot participate in such a proposal. I know that the government has previously worked on such a system, so the proposal should not be unknown to them. The rapporteur has now stated in his statement why it is not possible to be part of the proposal. It was before this debate was completely unknown to us, because they haven't put it into any kind of comment, but the reason is that you think it's too bureaucratic. We're a little surprised that it's going to be so bureaucratic, but we had hoped that the majority too could have been involved in a proposal that would have made life much easier for those in Norway who have a minority background, and could have also documented whether there are in fact so many claims, that in disproportionately many cases the police are asking for the visit of people with a minority background. If it turns out that this is not right, there will also be evidence that is favourable both for us as politicians and for the authorities to have, and also to prove to them with a minority background that that is not the case. At the end of the day, I would like to address the proposal where the Labour Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e142	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e145	Initially, I would like to say that it is positive that we get a proposal like what is available here now, so that we can do some action in relation to the increasing crime that we see. It should be of concern to everyone, and especially to us who denies the chairs in this hall. When we read daily in the newspapers about the increasing violence, we have to take this into account. This is a total picture that should be of concern and far on the way perhaps increase our efforts to stop the crime we see. What it's about, is that the police, prosecution authorities and criminal services need to have a tool so that they can do the job further in relation to what the Stortinget comes with, and not least: we need to have legislation that matches this. And that's what this case is about. For the Progress Party, parts of what is in the proposal are good, while other things are too defensive, not least that of visitation. We find it strange that visits should primarily take place in places where criminal offences usually take place. If that's how you know where they take place, we assume that the police should be there and prevent it. And if that's how it's put into practice, it's how it's going to be understood, for example. That it's less important to do a visit elsewhere, we think it's too big a lead. What's in this, and that worries us the most, is that we perceive this as a lack of trust in the police and the way they do their job, and we take a strong distance from it. Police are our tool to secure this piece, and then we have to give them framework conditions and trust that are necessary. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, we believe that our proposal for a visit is significantly better and clearer and significantly more simplified, and so the majority should have agreed to that rather than what is now going to be done. As I said, we have the necessary trust in the police. So over to, among other things, what the rapporteur had to say was that we should now sharpen this by carrying a knife and using a knife. We don't think that six months of prison is so very deterrent. We don't think anyone gets scared by it, and with the reconciliation queue we have today, there's no danger that people actually have to go in and zone. You have to have done something a lot more serious than that to get in to atoning. Although the party's former spokesperson on justice has suggested that we have become'soft', I will, for the Progress Party, remove that impression quite quickly. We want to increase the penalty framework in the penal law § 352a to one year imprisonment; we think six months is too little. Similarly, we want a double in Section 385 so that the penalty is up to two years. We think it's strange that you have to equate having a knife with yourself and using it. We think that there is a significant difference between the two elements, and so there should be different emphasis in the penal framework. It's -- at least for us -- logical. And we think that if you were to use the term'soft' about someone here, maybe it's the party that's basically closer to us politically, that should have gone in itself, for example. the rapporteur from the Right, who has had a high media profile and demonstrated that crime will be put to death. I am not sure that it will come to life, at least not with this proposal. Then we've also taken the freedom to consider what's going on in the overall penalty framework for the most serious issues, that is, where you're now being judged 21 years. We want to do something about that. We will now come up with a proposal that will ensure that up to 30 years of imprisonment can be sentenced, and that is related to the practice you have taken. This is the case in Norway, where a practice has gradually been developed that involves virtually two thirds of the time. Of course, it has to be assessed, and I know the government has followed it up, but nevertheless it worries us, because with today's practice it means that then you don't zone 21 years, but 14 years. We don't like that, and we think there is a lack of respect for those who are exposed to these offenders, and not least for the closest family of those who are exposed to such acts. We therefore want to focus on the fact that the penalties for the most serious offences are too low, and we are making a proposal that it should be increased to 30 years. Then there's another moment that also worries us, and that's what goes on conditional judges in gross acts of violence. It's, as we have written in our remarks, examples of rape cases where you do parts of the punishment -- maybe half, maybe 3⁄4 -- conditional, and it doesn't seem to help give people the impression that the Storting actually means something about it when you put the penalties. We believe, as Svein Legan of the University of Oslo has also said, that ‘the courts circumvent the penal code, and that this is done, inter alia, by making part of the punishment conditional’. We believe in the Progress Party that this clearly violates the intentions behind it, and we therefore propose that there should be limited access to the imposition of conditional penalties in cases of gross violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e161	Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e164	First, I would like to say that SV is very pleased with the proposed changes that have taken place on the initiative of the ministry. We believe it is very important that it is hard to take knives with us in public places. We can't see any mitigating circumstances in that regard. SV was already in 1998, when the revision of the Arms Act was dealt with, very offensive in relation to this. We made a number of proposals, which unfortunately only got our own votes, and I really don't understand why. For the suggestions we made, it was about limiting the number of weapons and getting better control of what weapons exist, and not just about what's the concern of the Progress Party, about hitting hard on the people who carry weapons after they've begun to flourish in society. We believe that it must be possible here to think both thoughts at once – that one should both try to limit the number of weapons and prevent the damage from happening, and hit it hard after the damage has happened. We think it is very positive that it is now a permanent arrangement that the police will have the opportunity to search people in the street. We are uncertain about the fact that the police are not going to have a special training course before they are going to do a visit, but we have not chosen to make a reservation in relation to it. 3 June this year, Gunn Karin Gjul, Anne Helen Rui and I were at the Greenland Police Chamber to look at the seized weapons and to have a conversation with the police responsible for this. What you were concerned about was whether this is appropriate for the police's own part. This may be appropriate in relation to making it more effective, as it would not be possible to summon someone who has taken such a course. However, I would like to ask the State Council – and perhaps, above all, the Police Directorate – to follow closely what this will be like in practice. As a result, policemen who do not know enough about weapons may also be exposed to danger. It was an example that was drawn out when we were visiting there, which went on a nail gun, which was fired in insanity because you didn't know how this worked. And we saw there weapons that we didn't suppose existed, and that initially didn't even look like weapons. There was one that looked like a pen. It is very important that the police officers who are about to deal with this are aware of how these are used, and how to render them harmless, so that you do not put others at risk. I think it is a pity that we do not now get a majority for our proposals, which I will then raise, except for one proposal, which I will turn into a transmission proposal. That is proposal No. 1, on the receipt scheme. The proposals we are promoting, such as: insists that we ask the Government to propose amendments to the Arms Act, so that the acquisition authorisation for weapons must be renewed every five years, and that six months' active membership should be required before consent is given to the acquisition of guns, are proposals that I believe would have been a right and important step towards trying to limit the number of weapons in society. Limiting the number of weapons has several important issues, all of which are clear here. One side of that case is also to limit the number of suicides committed with weapons. The Police Directorate has said there's almost 1 million. registered weapons in Norway. In addition, there is a quantity of unregistered weapons. What I am very pleased about is that the entire committee is involved in a comment that we are now going to have a central computerized weapons register by 1 January 2003. It is very good that we also get a majority with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that we should re-register hails acquired before 1 October 1990. With regard to the receipt scheme, I will come back to it on a later occasion, but a little comment to the representative Dybevig, who believes this is a bureaucratic system. I would like to say that, after all, it is all about people's legal security, and that must be in front of any red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e183	No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e186	‘Stay after the killing’. That was one of the headlines of the Evening Post on 25 May this year. It's been four years since a young man was shot outside the Snorre Company. The killing caused violent reactions. It's only a few weeks since a policeman was shot and killed on the open street outside the outdoor gallery. Where was the torch and the big political debate? Why did it get so quiet? The matter did not get any special space in the media. The policeman was the fourth to be killed in a few months' outdoors. Why don't we get up and scream when this happens? Are we really starting to get used to it? Often, there are random results from the use of firearms. A firearm in your pocket may be used due to trifles or accidental irritation to passers-by. We cannot accept such a great degree of uncertainty and uncertainty for you and me in this society. There should still be a international right here in the country to feel safe when we travel streetways. It is also important for the Christian People's Party to provide people with greater security of life and health by providing the police with increased opportunities to prevent the use of weapons in public spaces. Norway's Red Cross, the Church's Bymission and Youth Against Violence were quick to capture the commitment and mobilize four years ago. One week after the killing, 1,000 people went to the torch to show a loathing against the use of weapons and violence. In front were members of the government, Oslo City Councillor and the city police chief. The demonstration was the start of nationwide ‘Stop Violence’ events. This exposure has ceased. Those who carry weapons must never feel safe. Most people have responded to why the police should not operate all the control and surveillance they think is necessary. The Penal Code’s knife ban was passed nine years ago to prevent violent crime. Paragraph 352a prohibits the carrying of a knife or similar sharp instrument in a public place without due cause. Violation of the provision is punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to three months, but there is no evidence that this has been enough to scare criminals from using a knife. The current Minister of Justice, Hanne Harlem, said in Stortinget’s Question Time over a year ago that it would be appropriate to consider an increase in the penalties for a violation of the knife ban. It was in line with signals from the Justice Committee. I will give tribute to Minister of Justice Dørum for having taken hold of this. There is a broad consensus that violence crime with knives is an increasing problem. At the same time, we must admit that the possibility of up to three months of imprisonment has not been deterrent enough in relation to the harsh violent environment. The reins are only part of the prohibition of knife in public places. Now the police have fulfilled their demand for a stronger response. The new legislative proposal opens up the possibility of penalising infringements by fines or prisons for up to six months. But perhaps even more important, the police are allowed to decorate the handcuffs of people who are taken with knives. Such a detention centre requires a penalty framework of at least six months. Access to apprehension and imprisonment will, in the view of the Christian People's Party, prevent resettlement in Oslo. Let's imagine that a violent person is still bringing a knife to an outhouse. The police have reason to believe that he is looking to take a certain person, and seizes the knife. Later he shows up with new knives. The only way to stagnate him may be to apprehend and imprison him. It will be easier for the police to conduct a so-called visit to people hiding weapons or explosives. An amendment to the Police Act allowing officials to plan searches of persons and vehicles to obtain illegal weapons has been in demand for a long time. One of the main reasons for this proposal is recriminality in Oslo. The changes proposed in this case will provide a basis for significant progress in the fight against violence in the youth environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e213	In recent years, the criminality of violence has been increasingly influenced by the use of weapons. In particular, this applies to threatening and using a knife in connection with bodily impairments. Crime statistics for 1997-2001 show that threats with knife and gross body damage with knives are the two types of crime that have increased most during this period. The use of and threats to firearms are also becoming a significant societal problem. Last year, the police seized over 500 firearms. This is an increase of approx. 16 pst. from the previous year, and the increase continues into the first quarter of this year. Developments suggest that more and more people have access to weapons and that more people have weapons as part of their daily equipment. This, in turn, creates a danger that weapons may be threatened or used in violent epidemics. The Sem Declaration, where the Cooperative Government undertakes to promote measures against, inter alia: blind violence, shows that from the beginning the Government took this development seriously. To counteract the negative developments, as Minister of Justice, I am going to conduct a zero-tolerance policy for weapons in public space. In Ot.prp. No 58 proposals were made for several legislative measures against the illicit use of weapons. Since the promotion of the proposition, further serious violence episodes involving knife and firearms have taken place. The proposals contained in the proposal are twofold. Firstly, there is a proposal to amend the penal code. The government proposes to amend Section 161 of the Criminal Code so that it becomes criminal to acquire firearms or ammunition for the purpose of committing a crime. Today, this criminal order only hits such a shell of explosives. The government also proposes that the penalties provided for in the criminal law § 352a and § 385 be imposed on fines or prisons up to six months or both. Penalties affect the person who carries a knife in a public place and the person who grabs a knife during a fight. The changes in criminal law signal even more that society has to respond to this type of crime. New penalties will better reflect the seriousness of the offences. In addition, the proposals have a criminal procedural significance. Several instruments are given to the police to better combat the offences: the changes in the criminal law § 352 a and § 385 imply an increased access to arrest and, where appropriate, custody offenders. The amendments to Section 161 of the Criminal Code increase access to the use of untraditional investigation methods. The police can, for example, monitor a batch of firearms by technical detection and thus identify who is involved in the activity. This, in turn, can help to detect backers and organised crime, which is a priority task for the Government. Secondly, amendments to the Police Act are proposed. A new Section 7(a) is proposed, which will continue the temporary provision on the visit of the person in order to detect weapons. The proposal allows the police, under conditions, to search the person or vehicle at exposed locations and at times when there is an experience of conflicts which could lead to the use of weapons. Let me add that I have been involved in such a checkup, and there was nothing in the checkup that made it clear that the police did not have the necessary tools at their disposal. The temporary provision is made in the proposal permanent and extended to vehicle visits. Furthermore, it is proposed to clarify that the police also have access to search for a person or vehicle as part of the enforcement of public order and order. The amendments to the Police Act are based on a report by a working group with representatives from, among others: the State Attorney's Office and the Oslo Police District. Most of the hearing bodies that expressed their views on the proposal supported the work group's proposals. Several pointed out that there is a need not only to continue the access to the visit but also to expand it. For the other proposals, the Hearing Officers mainly agreed with the Working Group. As part of the preparation of the bill, I also reviewed the proposal of the representative of the Grandfather Jan Simonsen on measures to limit the use of knives to harm other people, in Document No. 8:48 for 2001-2002. I came to the conclusion that the changes would be too far-reaching. The representative Simonsen's proposal, however, has common features with the proposal for amendments to the police law that I have now promoted. I refer in particular to extended access to the visitation to reveal the weapons. The proposals to increase the level of criminal penalties for knife use with personal injury or death will come back to me as part of the follow-up to the Criminal Felony Commission's sub-examination VII, which includes: Further consideration is given to how the penalties framework should be designed. I would also like to assess in more detail whether we have high enough penalties in terms of mass killing and terrorism. I'll come back to that on a natural occasion. Overall, the proposals imply that the Government will respond to the use of weapons and provide the police with more effective means of preventing and investigating the offences. Finally, let me briefly say a few words about the questions that, among other things, The representative of Thorkildsen has taken up the matter. A very comprehensive plan has now been presented, drawn up by the police, to combat racism. It has received considerable support and sympathy both within the range of the police and outside. I am determined that this scheme will work before I will consider further measures, such as: The representative, Mr Thorkildsen, is now proposing on the matter we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e245	The proposition states that the evaluation of Section 10a of the Police Act shows that most police districts consider that there is no need to have a restriction on where visits can take place, on ‘places where violence is easily experienced’, that it is considered a weakness that the provision cannot be used for random visits, and that decision-making procedures are too heavy – exactly as the Progress Party said when the law was passed. Although some minor changes are made to decision-making procedures and vehicle visits are included in the law, the law will still be unsuitable to solve the problem of young people carrying knives or firearms. Let's assume that a police patrol is observing a bunch of young people who are positively known by the police to belong to a criminally charged youth community, walking down, for example. The Hedgehog Road in Oslo. The police have reason to believe they're carrying knives illegally. Shouldn't the police then have the opportunity to stop these young people, do a search and take away any weapons before they shoot anyone? In fact, the government's bill does not give this legal access. A business street is not a place ‘where such criminal offences take place experientially’. It's pointless! Of course, the police must have access to search every person, wherever they may be, who the police believe can carry illegal weapons, in the same way that, for example, customs can investigate every person they think is about to bring drugs or a bottle of alcohol too much into the country. There is no great burden on anyone to be visited by the police if it happens in a polite and straightforward way. It is far better to risk being stopped by the police if we behave suspiciously than to get a knife in the back because the police are without effective access to prevent illegal knife use. The progress party has taken up my previous proposal, and I am pleased with it. It is disappointing, however, that the Progress Party will not grant access to the life-time penalty for deliberate killing and will only limit and not eliminate the right of the courts to impose conditional penalties for gross violence. With this, I will address the two proposals that have been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e259	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he has referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 442]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e277	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e288	The fight against terrorism is one of the most important things facing civil international societies. Terrorism is hitting people hard and brutally innocent. Terror takes advantage of the people where we are weakest. The estimates can have dramatic and serious consequences for society as a whole. Most of us have recovered from the terrorist attack in New York on 11 September last year. The other day, we were also introduced to possible plans for serious terrorist attacks against Washington, which it is likely to have stopped in time. Suddenly, terror has become somewhat close. Some people like to call today's legislative amendment to the 'terrorist laws'. I think it's an unfortunate language theme. It gives the impression that an exhaustive list of measures is proposed here. Today's legislative amendments are not a new way to combat crime. The proposals develop and improve existing legislation. Disagreement on parts of the provisions should not in any context be taken into account in order to ensure that one is not willing to take action. Rather, it may be a matter of believing that there are already sufficient grounds and that new wording can actually weaken the use of the funds we have. I believe that there is reason to commend the Government for taking the hearing bodies seriously, and that the proposals have been significantly moderated in this round. It is mainly the opinion of the undersigned that the Government has found a good balance between effective action and the requirement for law-abiding legislation. Furthermore, the fight against terrorism is not only solved by criminal and foreign law alone. The causes of terrorism are widely complex and require a broad range of instruments. These reasons must be so important in the fight against terrorism. Central here is the fight for better global distribution and a boost in the living conditions of the majority of the world's population. In addition, our own preparedness and intelligence force is crucial. In other words, we are not punishing ourselves from the causes of terror. The type of legislation we are now discussing should therefore not replace the necessary debate and, to a large extent, should not be taken into account in order to reduce the causes of terrorism more generally. Nor shall the debate obscure the work that needs to be done internationally, for example for an international criminal court and effective investigation resources internationally. The fight against terrorism can easily become a national environmental policy. Sovereignty is national, while opportunities are international. Thus, we absolutely need a terrorist Kyoto agreement with binding mechanisms. The government's proposal for new legislation on terrorism will also come in the light of the UN Security Council Resolution and Convention, and is a step in this direction. It is particularly important to follow up our international obligations. Punishment is important. We need new legal provisions, inter alia: to capture the need to criminalise the financing of terrorist activities. At the same time, it is of central importance that this fight does not conflict with fundamental human rights. The fight against terrorism must not take away what terror threatens, democracy and legal certainty. A majority believes it is right to define acts of terrorism. In the view of the Workers' Party, the definition of terrorism should not become too broad, and the boundaries must be syllable. People and authorities must know exactly where the limits go for the possible, powerful exercise of power they are now asking for. It is also important that we politicians do not introduce well-meaning laws that become unmanageable in practice. The result will be that the police and prosecution authorities are reluctant to apply the law. It's a cross-thinking that when Regeringa's proposal was on the hearing, the Riksadvokat and the country's judges stood on one side and the police on the other. The definition forms the basis for convictions which may involve the strictest punishment of the law and the possibility of untraditional investigation methods. The Workers' Party is essentially associated with the Department's delimitation and construction of the definition of acts of terrorism, § 147a of the Criminal Act, and agrees with the actions that form the basis for being characterised as terrorist activities. Many acts will fall outside, but they are caught by other legal provisions, such as: on serious damage. For example, terrorists are involved. they will continue to be punishable even if the new terrorist activity provision does not capture such activities. It will therefore continue to be a serious criminal activity that needs to find other criminal provisions than the one we are now discussing. We also largely share the considerations about what the perpetrator must have in order to be affected by the provisions. To characterize certain acts that cause serious fear in the population, as the draft law outlines, as acts of terrorism, is, in our view, too broad a definition. Where the fear element is necessary to criminalise, we already have existing criminal provisions. In other words, we are not facing any room of praise. Several of the actions described in the provision will also be said to cause serious fears in the population, without being able to be said to be terrorist activities in the correct sense of the word, for example. extensive pyromania in large population centres. The wording of the law in point (b) is, for that reason, broad in relation to what a terrorist activity is intended to target. Too much legally unclear standards can quickly contribute to extensive legal processes in the practice of the law and help to create more uncertainty about the implementation of the provision. This, in turn, may contribute to the failure of the authorities in their use of the law, which is not desired. That is the background for us to vote against this proposal, § 147a(b). Preparation for criminal offences is essentially not punishable by Norwegian law. Several preparatory actions are today criminalised by the penal code, where they can be concrete. Examples include the falsification of passports, the storage and manufacture of explosives, the possession of knives and conventional and biological weapons without authorisation, and the agreement – federation – on, among others. bomb attacks, hijacking, long-term detention, killing and more serious damage. It is difficult to introduce some general preparation provisions. It will also be contrary to Norwegian criminal law. It is therefore wise for the Government not to propose such a general provision. The introduction of a general preparation provision will pose significant problems in terms of evidence and demarcation. In our opinion, the Advocate General rightly pointed out that there is sufficient legal basis for this day which will affect the preparatory actions that may be involved and which may have the opportunity to discover, investigate, prove and judge. In view of this, the Labour Party considers that the proposed provision to make a covenant is not necessary, but only suitable for creating confusion. When the Government believes to have existing legal barriers that affect preparatory actions committed by one, this also naturally happens when committed jointly by several. Again – we do not face any legal space, and that is the reason why we will vote against the last paragraph of § 147a of the provision. A majority of the Judicial Committee agrees with the Government not to carry out the selection work on police methodology. Such an assessment should be carried out with the usual legal process and with the necessary time. Many would also argue that the most important thing now is that the police will be able to use the methods they already have. Terrorism is international and has no borders. Terrorists must also be judged in Norway regardless of whether they are Norwegian citizens and regardless of where the terrorist act has been committed. Thus, terrorists cannot seek a place of refuge. This bill ensures this. The Workers' Party proposes to send the proposed amendment to the Foreign Affairs Act back to the Government. There is reason to consider such far-reaching proposals in the context of the review to be carried out under foreign law. We also undertake, as mentioned now, obligations as a state to contribute to the prosecution of foreign nationals also for acts of terrorism committed in other countries. Thus, deporting people before a judicial verdict is available may be contrary to the intention that each country undertakes to take an active part in the prosecution of terrorists. In addition, we have the extradition agency, which ensures the possibility of extradition to a number of countries for criminal prosecution in other countries. There are, therefore, good reasons for waiting for a change in the law that allows for expulsion before a final judgment is available. When there is a final judgment, existing laws already provide for expulsion. The important thing about this bill is that a stronger fight against the economy behind the terror. Financial flows also have no borders. Now, the ability to bond is far-reaching, but necessary. Furthermore, it shall not be such that money shall have the same legal certainty as human beings. It is necessary to ensure that the authorities can effectively link financial resources linked to terrorists or terrorists. In addition, a majority of the Committee has indicated that the suspicion of terrorist financing is also a basis for such commitments. So here we go a little further than the government's proposal. At the same time, it is important to ensure legal certainty for those affected by such far-reaching allegations of terrorism and affected by bonding. Therefore, a majority goes in and gives these defence assistance appointed at the expense of the public regardless of whether the intended notice is given or not. The allegations of association with acts of terrorism and the serious consequences of such a bonding suggest that this right should be granted to the person to whom it is addressed. It is surprising that the government parties do not support this, but the more pleased that the Progress Party actually supports this and ensures a majority in favour of such a guarantee of legal certainty. To be obsessive about crime does not necessarily mean to relax on fundamental guarantees of legal certainty. The majority believe that it is essential to have effective criminal law protection against military private organisations and organisations with sabotage objectives in mind. These are organisations the majority believe we do not need in our organisational democracy at all. Such organisations can often be used as a basis for highly socially harmful activities and need neither the protection of law nor human rights. The majority also subscribe to the scope of the provision as regards the threat of terrorist activities. Such threats create major problems and additional costs for civil society, and must be taken seriously. The threats in themselves can cause great damage and meet some of the objectives of terrorism, to put civil society out of play. This is a good starting point for Norway's contribution to the fight against terrorism we are discussing today. It is a broad majority of the broad lines of the proposal. It's important. This is how efforts become legitimate and effective. Finally, I refer to proposals from the Labour Party in the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox It is not necessary to address this proposal, as we will be given the opportunity to vote against parts of the provision in question when it comes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e339	Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e342	The fight against terrorism is one of the greatest challenges facing the democratic world society today. When the terror showed its face in New York on September 11, 2001, an entire world became aware of what organized terrorist groups are capable of doing by atrocities, and the fear of new estimates has since been great throughout the Western world. The right is therefore very pleased that the Government has presented proposals for legislative changes that enable us to be in the forefront of planning actions or financing terrorist activities. The United Nations has been an important driver for a coherent regulatory framework to combat terrorism. There has rarely been a greater need for international committed cooperation in order to prevent terrorists from continuing their activities freely. I'm afraid that many people are now forgetting the TV pictures from New York. Al-Qaida's well-prepared and planned terrorist action in New York put a stake in millions of people. Terrorists are willing to use the most vile and primitive methods to scare and cause great fear in the population through extreme and vile acts. It is not useful, as the Labour Party and the SV will, to define themselves away from the fight against terrorism. None of these parties want to support the new provision that will punish those who seriously fear the people with their actions. Now the same parties are once again showing their way by not supporting proposals to curb the atrocities of terrorism through a stronger law around what terrorists have as their goal, namely to spread enough fear so that democracies will show greater adherence to their wishes. The right will never in any way cast doubt on the acceptance of acts of terrorism by the Norwegian population or other Western democracies or terrorists. The Workers' Party and SV have doubts about the will to regulate acts of terrorism. The fight against terrorism has just begun. A very good example of this is the speech given by the American Justice Minister, John Ashcroft, to the American people on Monday. A systematic and thorough U.S. intelligence effort has probably prevented a new, great tragedy from taking place on American soil. The Al-Qaeda network planned a new attack, this time against Washington. A bomb with radioactive material was to be detonated. Do we need a stronger witness to take legal action against terrorism? I am amazed at some of the views of the Labour Party in dealing with the Government's proposals. We need to have the necessary legal remedies to defeat terrorist activities on Norwegian soil. One of the most basic measures will be to have a clear definition of what is a terrorist action. The Labour Party wants, inter alia: withdrawing parts of the Government’s proposals from the terrorist definition. The proposal for the penal code § 147a, first paragraph, point (b) characterizes certain acts that create “serious fear” in the population as acts of terrorism. This proposal goes against the Workers' Party and the SV. Furthermore, the Workers' Party is opposed to the proposal for a criminal sanctions ban on associations to commit a terrorist act. The Workers' Party instead leads a crusade against capitalism in general. After all, capitalism is not the problem. It's a clean derailment from the Workers' Party. In addition, there is a fight against tax havens and currency speculation. Global funding is not the problem either. There are opportunities to hide financing transactions that are the problem. In fact, here terrorist laws can be an incentive to speed up this work. International cooperation shall not be isolated only in the fight against terrorism. It's a matter of course. There is, then, no contradiction between wanting to have laws against terrorism and combating international crime, money laundering, corruption and poverty. Norway is actively involved as an actor in the work of the United Nations in these fields. The problem of poverty is not solved by the fact that Western democracies are not responding to terrorists and groups threatening the existence of Western democracies. With regard to global trade and the removal of customs duties, the Government removed at the latest in proposals for revised national budget customs duties on 630 products. This is a good start. Customs duties have often been an obstacle to poor regimes, so that they cannot sell their goods in the western markets. Poverty is never solved by isolation, which will be the best cavern for corrupt and invincible leaders. The price of freedom, that is, the free flow of goods and services, has given us increased living standards in postwar times as a result of increased global trade. Best help to the Third World is help for self-help, not help and financial support that when it disappears, paralyzes the whole country. Nor to terror laws is any help for the Third World. So the question is, who are the terrorists? And Al-Qaeda, who is it? Bin Laden is a rich top-class boy from Saudi Arabia who funded support for a bandit regime in Afghanistan. And Mullah Omar, who introduced a medieval torture regime there 25-30 pst. the population was driven away, producing in addition large quantities of opium that would flow into the West and that would finance both civil war against its own citizens and terrorist activities worldwide. The country now needs development and support and not to be led by foreign religious idealists or terrorists. Religious or ideological fanaticism is not solved alone by solving the world’s poverty problems. The UN is responsible for ensuring normalisation, and Norwegian military support in Afghanistan has been absolutely necessary. The question is: do these terrorists represent the poor of the world? Do they speak the cause of the poor, when all they do is plunder and chase people away? In addition, bin Laden and Mullah Omar stand for abuse both in word and action of Islamic faith. This has puzzled millions of Muslim believers around the world – not least in Afghanistan’s new transitional regime. SV is essentially going against the entire proposition. To me, the left-hand side of Norwegian policy debats the serious challenges facing the world in the fight against terrorism. In my opinion, believing that terrorist attacks will never be effective in Norway, or that the fight against terrorism is over is very naive. SV even uses Amnesty International and claims that dictatorships will seek to introduce Norwegian terrorist laws, and use it as an excuse for action against its own citizens. If SV forgets that the starting point for all laws in Norway, which is at the bottom and which apply before all other laws, is the Constitution § 1 – «The Kingdom of Norway is a free, independent, indivisible and inalienable Kingdom. Its form of government is restricted and hereditary monarchy.»? The SV’s argument defends the indirect right of dictatorships to decide on the laws of democracy. Our terrorist laws are intended to protect the population from the opportunities of hostile groups and people to threaten Norwegian democracy. The new provisions of the Criminal Code shall prevent criminal offences and shall punish them. The law is not designed for the State itself to commit criminal offences. These dictatorships have basically violated fundamental human rights. The law must be seen in context and not fragmentary, as SV wants to do. To argue that democracy itself, i.e. the majority of the people elected here today, has a hidden agenda of weakening the freedom of the Norwegian people, is a gross concealment of the realities of the matter. The majority are, in fact, very concerned about the individual's right to privacy. Norway is and shall be obliged to comply with the adopted Conventions on Human Rights. This is a matter of course for a modern democracy. The terrorists work 24 hours a day, year-round, as they've done for decades. Their fight against Western society is far from over. One of the most important tasks of the Western world is to contribute to cutting the flow of money to the terrorists. The UN Convention and the Government’s proposal for a ban on the financing of terrorism are fundamental to Norway’s contribution to cutting this lifeblood. Terrorists operate across borders. Norway must never be seen as a haven where terrorist acts can be planned and carried out without greater risk. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Workers’ Party and the SV, therefore support the Government’s proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. If a foreign national has infringed the criminal law §§ 147a or 147b, this should lead to expulsion, despite the absence of a enforceable judgment. The Labour Party is concerned that there is a wide range of legal barriers to the expulsion of potential terrorists. Where are they going, and who is going to judge them, is one of the statements. Terrorists are to be hunted from skirmish to skimp. There shall be no safe port where such atrocities that threaten the entire Western social order can be planned. I want to end with a quote from Ronald Reagan that he had in connection with a flight hijacking tragedy in the 1980s: 'You can run, but you can't hide'. Finally, I address the proposals put forward by the Right and Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e396	Carsten Dybevig has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e399	That this is an important matter, is well raised above any doubt, and it probably also shows the commitment that has been in the committee when we discussed this. When we take up the word "terror," I expect that the various of us have different mental images that pop up – it's from 11 September last year in the United States or from other contexts that you see as terror. So if you look at the definitions, it's about fear and fear. I will also take the liberty of referring to what the Prime Minister said in his statement last year, when he presented the terrorist attack. The Prime Minister said, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘We must not forget that the international community is facing a ruthless opponent, who has carefully and nine-yearly planned terrorist attacks to kill as many as a thousand civilians as possible. This is an opponent who is willing to carry out the most cruel truths again, and who has the resources and the will to do so." It's clear that with such a starting point, the job we're going to do here today, important, because it's all about seventh and last, is how we can prevent, so that the Norwegian community can be secured against terrorist attacks. Not least, it is important that we follow up our international commitments. The UN has taken the two decisions contained in the resolutions here, which also provide leadership for Norway as a member nation. It's clear that we have to settle this, because these kinds of actions are affecting the world community, they are affecting and harming states, and not least they are affecting the level of individuals. It's totally unacceptable. Therefore, through the law, we need to show how we want it to be and how it should be handled. In the proposal now available under Section 147(a), there is a description of what is defined under the paragraph. That there's been a disagreement in the committee, I think it's a plus, because that means we have different thoughts about it, and we're willing to discuss the pieces that are there. But personally, I am very pleased with the conclusion that has finally been drawn, for it bears witness to my discretion, as I said, of an engagement. And we're going to take care of that. The law must be designed in such a way that the police and prosecution authorities have a basis for doing their job. It must be tidy, it must be clear, and it must be sharp – as others have been before here today. Then I register with interest that SV will not be involved in taking an international responsibility with the UN to bring about the death of terrorism. SV therefore sidelines terrorism with other crimes and we do not believe that we need our own legislation on it. For the Progress Party, this is a passive and unacceptable attitude which, in our view, is totally wrong. It's a way to glorify terrorism and not completely distance it. You could say, of course, that it's covered up within the ordinary law. However, we do think it is too defensive, and we also do not mark the international coordination as it should be to put it on the agenda and perhaps seek to have a similar legislation that allows us to deal with it in the best possible way. Then, of course, the bill also discusses what is involved in the financing of terrorism. Obviously, money, economics, is what makes it possible to get these things done. By tightening up access to cash flow, because here maybe using a bad term, you will also reduce the possibility of terror and terrorist attacks. It's also of the overall pieces that we have to take into account when doing this job. Of course, the overall aim is to have legislation and prevention so good that we avoid being subjected to it. You've also discussed what's going on bonding. We see it for the Progress Party just like that. That the needs are great, so we are. Those who read the papers yesterday afternoon saw that there was now concern about the smuggling of drugs across the border in North Norway that could be used for nuclear development in Norway. Here, there are still items that appear, that we have to ensure and care for. Another element on which the rapporteur has also been involved is that of access to the public-appointed defender. It is clear that for the Progress Party this was a balance. How far are we going to go in terms of caring for the suspect, while we're going to run a cool line? Our conclusion was that the entire section 202 e should be subject to the right to appoint a public defender because legal certainty should also be ensured in this context, while having the opportunity to be severely punished. Then it's also that the Foreign Affairs Act is discussed in this context. Some parties have said that they want it exposed. There are proposals on a number of points. For the Progress Party, actions mentioned in these two legal frameworks are mainly discussed, §§ 147a and 147b, of such seriousness that we do not want anything to be judged in any way that is discretionary in relation to proportionality. A person who commits this kind of act against Norwegian society has given a clear signal that he doesn't want to be here. He doesn't want to be part of Norwegian society. We have to take note of that, and then he gets to leave the country. If it is true that he has a family in Norway and still chooses to commit such acts, I assume that he has made an assessment of the cost of carrying out such action. That's the way it should be. When the Storting makes its decisions, the individual has thought through the consequences of what you vote on. That's the way it has to be for others. We will therefore be voting against any proposal that now requires a proportionality assessment before expulsion can take place. In this context, we will of course oppose the amendment proposed by the Government in Section 29, second paragraph, first sentence, and in Section 30, third paragraph. We also promote a proposal to amend Section 58 of the Foreign Affairs Act, in line with this. I would like to address that proposal. Then I can't push myself to say a little more about what SV in his comments expresses concern for. One is concerned that there should be a final judgment before expulsion can occur. That's obviously SV in its full right to mean. But it's probably like per. Today it is not a requirement that it be a judgment. An administrative decision may be taken, on the basis of which it is well founded. In other words, it is not a punishment to be expelled. That some people who have come, probably will claim the opposite, that it actually feels like a punishment, is on the side of the case. For our part, today's system is good enough. Another point of concern expressed by SV in its comments is that a foreigner seeking asylum in Norway may be refused residence if, on the basis of a probability assessment, he has participated in terrorist activities in another country. Clearly, this can be problematic. At the same time, we cannot turn it around and say that Norway should be a haven for everyone, no matter what they have done, seen in a humanitarian light. The lot of progress will not be included in such a note at all. I assume that SV will comment on this later in this debate. For our part, it's general that we get a law that's functional and good. So I can't let go of what goes on in method choices. I get a little fascinated, after hearing the previous speaker, who pulled himself up to the great heights, but elegantly jumped over the method choices. There is no need to go so high on the track without checking that the lifeline actually holds. Because it doesn't. The representative has no credibility whatsoever in this when he goes so tough, but has not checked that at the same time the police and prosecution authorities provide the tools needed, for example. relative to space listening. If you look at the recordings we got when we dealt with this matter, I believe that the PST has stated that you wanted to be able to use space listening as a tool. It is related to the fact that technological development is so fast that it must also be possible to use such untraditional methods of investigation. But it's only the Progress Party that's taken inwards. The majority here have to wait for the Methodology sample, so that we can evaluate this together. It's a paradox in itself. If you obviously know that a change will give you a tool and strengthen the basis for the job you want to do, why should you wait to do it? For us, this is once again inconsistent. If you expect that space listening could be a good tool for the police in the investigation, related to sections 147(a) and 147(b), the police should have the opportunity to do so. Once again, I record that the majority has a lack of trust in the Norwegian police. It doesn't have the Progress Party. We don't have that at all. If there's an area where you should open up space listening, there should be things related to this, something else is defensive and passive in our discretion. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party – this is what has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e440	Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e443	In this article, I would like to focus on arguing against the proposals put forward by the Government – do not concentrate on the proposals we have made as alternatives and are included in the vote. SV will warn against simple responses to international terrorist threats. We would warn against choosing instruments in the fight against terror that do not work or that do not work. We are concerned about the trends we see internationally, where the United Nations Committee on Terrorism, CTC, which is to ensure that the United Nations Member States follow up their obligations to combat terrorism, lack basic human rights competences, where the United States and other Western countries set aside fundamental principles of the rule of law, where our own Ministry of Justice ‘remembered’ that the European Convention on Human Rights is inviolable, and thus takes precedence over resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council, and how undemocratic regimes use even more forcefully than before a rhetoric that stamps legitimate opposition and resistance as terrorist activities. We are concerned about the tendency to accept — or tacit — consent to such resistance being given the label ‘terrorism’ for example. The United States is to gather its broad alliance, among others. to achieve back coverage to intervene in Iraq. We believe that in the short and long term this is very dangerous for all of us. Colin Powell, the US Secretary of State, said something wise. He warned against taking a light look at the Middle East conflict because this will intensify and continue the hatred against the United States, thus intensifying the threat of terror against the American population. But he got swept by the path of those who thought the most important thing now is to make sure that the president's brother, who is making re-elections in Florida, gets the voices he needs from American Jews and others who support the Israelis in the war-like conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. In this context, it has been decided to use one weapon, which is now quite common: the terrorist weapon. I'll come back to this. The point is this: the most important thing we can do in the fight against terrorism is not to adopt new legal provisions. The laws we have largely cover violent attacks on democracy and its values. So we are not tempted by terrorists if we leave the legislative proposals that have now come forward. But what we lack is the following: a policy line for peace, democratic development and the protection of human rights, international fair development in the world, where the distinction between poor and rich countries becomes smaller, and where the distinctions within each country also decrease understanding and respect for each other's values and attitudes towards the spread of arms policies for the abolition of tax havens and exchange of information, based on the fundamental rule of law recognised international criminal law in financial markets; In this regard, I just want to mention that in the Innst. O.N. 47 for 2001-2002 from the Financial Committee on the Law on the Registration of Financial Instruments, those parties which in a way display the most muscles – the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – opposed to greater transparency in our own financial markets. I think that's very nice. But now it's like this that these are the new terrorist regulations we're here to discuss, terrorist regulations that, after all, are far better than those that were sent out from the Ministry of Justice in the first place, but that SV will still reserve itself against. Why? I'm going to try to explain the reason, and in this connection I want to ask myself rhetorical points such as that SV does not take the terrorist threats seriously, or that 11 September last year did not go very far into us, since it was in the United States this happened. There is a trend internationally, and there has been a trend in Norway, to conduct what in feminist terminology has been called ‘rule techniques’, but which here may best be referred to as ‘mening terror’. In fact, I would say that SV is the party in Norway that has taken the terrorist threats most inwardly. And we've been doing it for years, without a September 11 point, and without making any legislative proposals to get rid of the problem. We have done so in our budgets, through distribution policy, in environmental matters, in political positions towards international conflicts such as the Middle East, like Afghanistan, like Iraq, like Colombia, to mention some, and through our critical attitude towards the United States, to the old Soviet and to the cold war. Then to the bill. The new terrorist provisions to be adopted here today have, first of all, been marked by urgent work. I should like to commend the Ministry of Justice and the Council of State for taking in many of the important counter-conceptions that emerged in the hearing. Nevertheless, the new provisions are very unfortunate, for several reasons. Firstly, they are unnecessary. As I have said, the vast majority of the acts listed in Section 147(a) are already covered by existing laws and with very high penalties. Both the Norwegian Lawyers' Association and the Riksadvokat have pointed this out, the representative Dybevig! In fact, Norway has taken the threat of terrorism seriously since the penal code was drawn up in 1902. So this is not new, and SV cannot see that there is a need for its own regulations on this point. Secondly, it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to draw up a generally accepted definition of terrorist activity. We have a lot of examples that what is terrorism is a political issue in many contexts. We don't have to look further than to the Middle East to confirm this. Just because such a definition cannot be clear and clear, it is unfortunate that we are adopting it here today, against SV's votes, correctly. As Amnesty International Norway has pointed out: that Norway adopts unclear rules, gives an unfortunate signal effect beyond the borders of the country, to countries we would not like to compare with, and that desirefully seizes every opportunity to obtain legitimacy to delineate what many of us would characterize as legitimate resistance to illegitimate oppression. I do not understand that the majority can express in the vote that it is important that the definition of terrorism should not be too broad, that the boundaries must be sharp, and at the same time that the vote for a paragraph which is just unclear, which does not have any boundaries that are sharp. That it is unclear and unclear, I have enough of examples of, some of them have been drawn up during the consultation round and in time that has gone by. However, the court shall have jurisdiction. It's relatively unlikely, sail if I don't want to say that it's unlikely, that ever will be judged by the new section 147(a). SV is therefore particularly concerned with other aspects of the new provisions, aspects which it is more close to believing may have far-reaching consequences for people who had to be affected innocently, for example. through monitoring, expulsion or suspicion over a long period of time as a result of a paragraph I am deeply concerned that the majority adopts, as it now stands, namely § 147(b). The comments of the Police Security Service in the consultation round in connection with Section 104(a) of the Criminal Code have not made me less concerned. I want to confront my political opponents in this matter with the following dilemma, and I'm going to take the sea as a starting point: Let's imagine -- it might be difficult, but let's imagine that I'm a Somali in Norway, with a very poor family in Somalia that depends on me to survive, to get vital drugs for my sister, to get my brother to train. I use one of the informal banking systems to send over money. If it can be proved that these systems are either owned by a person or an undertaking that commits or attempts to commit crimes, as described in Section 147(a), that a terrorist has control of these systems, or that those who own the banking systems act on behalf of or on instructions from someone who will fall under the terrorist definition, I will be able to be sentenced to up to 10 years in prison. What has to be probable is that I used these banking systems in spite of knowing that these were involved in terrorist activities in some way, but it is not required that my intention was to support these activities. So, I have the choice of sending money to my family and risking being convicted of violation of § 147(b), or not sending the vital money, and thus falling under the term ‘lawful citizen’. I have heard it has been said before that there are other and American banking systems that can be used for this purpose. But many Somalis are not willing to take advantage of these, for two reasons: they charge high taxes, and they are American. Can we understand that? I can understand. Who is a terrorist, namely, to a certain extent, depending on the eye that sees, from its own experience, of political perceptions. I perceive Israel as a state terrorist when they repeatedly enter Jenin, when they behave in the way they do to Palestinian children, when they deliberately cause people to suffer, do not allow people to get a job, do not have the opportunity to get a future. Palestinians in Norway with family and friends in Jenin and Gaza definitely regard Israel as a state terrorist, and the United States as well. Large parts of the world's population perceive the United States as a state terrorist. And I can understand that, just as I understand that the Chechens perceive Russia as a state terrorist, or that the East Timorese see Indonesia as a state terrorist. On the other hand, I find it incomprehensible that this has not been taken into account by the large majority here in advance of this debate. It would have been very interesting if we had got a situation where, for example, Israel’s friends in Norway reported to the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs the financing of terrorist activities because the U.D. has given money to the Palestinian self-government authorities. I went to the Danish Folketing's website and read parts of the minutes from the hearings and debates that took place there. And there was just a professor of law pointing to this: what would happen if he sent the fee he received for the lecture he gave in the Parliament to the PLO – when the PLO of the United States is defined as terrorists? And when you couldn't give him an answer to this, he meant, and I quote: ‘Treatment of citizens in this way is fraudulent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e502	Will the representative address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e506	Yes, I would like to address the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party and the proposals of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e513	No Marte Thorkildsen has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e516	The Christian People's Party takes the floor seriously in this debate. But at the same time, when the representative Thorkildsen defines the state of Israel as a state terrorist, I think she knows that she's putting herself a little on the sideline of the debate. The world isn't what it once was. 11 September 2001 is a date that will be forgotten late. This date is one of the reasons why we are dealing today with legal measures against terrorism. But that's not the only reason. Terrorism has always been present in the world – albeit in different forms or expressions. But in the past, we might have experienced it as something distant, something that didn't concern us. After September 11th, many no longer felt so untouched. Let's be clear: terror is an instrument that doesn't belong in any democratic society. That is why it is also right to combat terrorism, and we may have to use strong instruments. The issue today is to follow up and implement the United Nations Convention of 9 December 1999 on combating the financing of terrorism and United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373 of 28 September 2001. The Christian People's Party believes it is important for Norway to follow up the international commitments we have. It is also of great importance that we seek to harmonise our laws with the laws of other countries. It will make it easier to create a common front against terrorism. It's important to be aware that we're dealing with strong and cynical forces. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that it is possible to be a humanist society, focusing on the individual's rights, while at the same time being able to participate in the effective fight against terrorism and terrorists. The draft consultation issued by the Ministry created a great deal of debate. Many came up with strong counter-conceptions about the draft. This has led the Ministry to change the draft, and as the proposal has been submitted to the Stortinget, we have no concern about supporting it. In our view, there is no contradiction between this proposal and fundamental human rights. Norwegian law already provides for actions that could be characterised as terrorist activities. Of course, hijacking, hazard and damage, damage to the body and killing are criminal offences. However, there may be good grounds for having a separate terrorist clause in the penal code. As the Ministry also says in the proposition, it may seem inconsistent to criminalise the financing of acts of terrorism without having ‘some explicit criminal order against acts of terrorism in itself’. What is acts of terrorism should therefore be defined in a separate provision. As a result of the consultation, the Ministry has amended the original draft. It is a prerequisite that the action has been carried out with a special intent, as stated in Section 147(a). It is the actual act and not the underlying purpose that is decisive for whether or not the act is a terrorist act. The political, religious or ideological motive for the action is not included in the definition. It is also clear from the proposal that legal action should not be taken to free people from oppressive or undemocratic regimes. Of course, it should be allowed to express other opinions, including through different forms of action, without it being categorised as terrorism. There are not only acts committed in Norway that are affected by the paragraph, but also acts of terrorism committed abroad are to be judged in Norway. This is important in order to achieve effective counter-terrorism. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal for a penal framework. We think it is an important point that the penal framework is set high, not only because these are serious crimes, which require a clear response, but also because it allows the use of exceptional investigation methods. It is necessary in these matters. When we want to combat terrorism, it is not least important to cut down on the sources of funding. Money is vital to the way terror strikes. The terrorist activity that took place on 11 September last year required considerable resources. If we are able to stop funding, we are well on our way to combating terrorism. Therefore, we support the Ministry's proposal for a new section 147(b). In such cases, there will also be access to exceptional investigation methods. The Christian People's Party also believes that there is no conflict between the proposal of § 147(b) and the principles of international law or the legal certainty of the individual. We would also like to stress what is stated in the comments, that the guarantees of legal certainty inherent in the use of coercive measures against individuals do not apply equally in the case of economic resources. In order that there should be no doubt that there should be access to the use of economic resources, not only in those suspected of engaging in terrorist activities, but also in those suspected of participating in the financing of terrorist activities, the backers, the Committee has proposed that Section 202 of the Criminal Procedures Act should refer not only to Section 147(a) but also to Section 147(b). It is important to have the possibility to bind upon the request of other States. In the fight against terrorism, the countries must stand together. If we allow borders to become barriers to the fight against terrorism, we do not do our job – but make it easier for terrorists to do their jobs! The Ministry has also proposed changes to the rules of the Foreign Expulsion Act. It shall be possible to expel a non-resident who has infringed § 147a or § 147b, even if there is no enforceable judgment. The Christian People's Party sees that there may be counter-conceptions against such a provision. But there are very special cases of actions with major and serious consequences for a society. We have an obligation to take into account everyone else in our society who follows democratic rules of play and behaves properly. The concern for the peoples and the security of the nation must weigh heavily. It shall be assessed whether expulsion would be a disproportionate measure to the person concerned. As the Ministry also points out, a foreigner who risks being tortured, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment on issue will not be expelled on the basis of the proposed expulsion provisions. The law is, of course, to be applied in accordance with the international rules of which Norway is bound. So we are not going 'all off the hook' in our fight against terror! Christian People's Party also supports the proposal for amendments to Section 104(a) of the Penal Code. These include: to form, participate or recruit members of a private military organisation or to support such an organisation. It shall also be punishable to have members under 18 years of age. As a unanimous committee expresses, these are organisations that are not needed in our democracy. Such organisations may be used as a basis for highly socially damaging activity, which does not require legal protection or protection based on human rights. With regard to the question of further extraordinary investigation methods, the Christian People's Party suggests that it has not been long since we were involved in giving the police new methods. We don't yet know what the effects of these methods are. In addition, the Government has put down two samples to look at the police methodology. We've noticed that both the Riksadvokat and the Lund Committee are about to change the law now. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to have the samples do their work before we decide to give the police the opportunity to use more new methods. There are difficult balances that are made in such cases as the one we are dealing with today. The rights of individuals may conflict with the interests of the big society. The matter today has created a lot of debate. It has been healthy, and there have also been consequences for the final result. The Christian People's Party is clear in its assessment that what we adopt today, we can stand for. Human rights have not been lost today. We believe that the legislative proposal preserves the necessary balance between the interests of individuals and the needs of the big society. Therefore, we can recommend Odelstinget to follow the settings presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e554	The fight against terrorism poses major challenges for the world community. The terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September showed in a horrifying way how vulnerable our modern society is, and how reckless individuals are willing to move forward to further their goals. Since terrorism is international, the fight against terrorism must also take place across national borders. The UN has therefore adopted several conventions and resolutions aimed at combating terrorism and terrorist financing, to which Norway has joined. The legislative proposals contained in the present proposal implement the rest of Norway’s international obligations in this area. It has been important for me to design the proposals so that they loyally and clearly fulfil Norway’s international obligations. At the same time, legislative measures must not be so radical as to interfere excessively with the values we want to protect. Legislative measures need to be balanced between protecting society and avoiding interference with the social goods we want to protect, such as: legal certainty, privacy, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association and other fundamental human rights. However, I would warn against the oversimplification of the discussion, so that it appears that human rights are unconditionally under greater pressure when measures against terrorism are put in place. Passiveness in the fight against terrorism can also be a violation of human rights. The process of legal work has shown how difficult it is to find a mode vivendi. In retrospect, it can be seen that some of the proposals sent at the hearing were too far-reaching. In matters such as this, the consultation is particularly valuable because views from widely differing points of view contribute to finding the right balance in the ministry's final proposal. The final legislative proposal is divided into four main parts: Firstly, the Ministry proposes a new criminal code on terrorism which explicitly targets terrorist acts. The purpose is to indicate clearly in the law that such actions are in a special position. The definition also limits the scope of the other legal measures against terrorism. Without a definition, it would have been necessary to give more general rules. The definition thus contributes to the fact that the legislative measures do not have a further impact field than the objective is intended. Secondly, the Ministry proposes a new penalty order for the financing of terrorism. This provision is intended to provide financial resources for the financing of terrorist acts and to make funds available to terrorists. Thirdly, the Ministry proposes new rules on the levying of funds. The proposal provides that the prosecution authority may, under more detailed conditions, deprive itself of the allocated resources to prevent their being used for the financing of terrorist acts. In order to ensure legal certainty, the Ministry proposes that a binding decision should always be referred to the right of inquiry for confirmation. Bonding may also not be decided for more than four weeks at a time. After the end of this period, the case must be brought again before the Court of First Instance. Fourthly, the proposal proposes to extend the rules on expulsion and expulsion to those who have infringed the new provisions of the penal code § 147a and 147b, or to those who have granted a safe place of residence to such persons. The draft legislation sent by the Ministry at its hearing on 20 December 2001 has, as is well known, aroused considerable debate. Many have been critical. Although some of the criticisms were based on misunderstandings, many made valuable recordings that were useful in the preparation of the law. The Ministry has, for example: taken seriously that the definition of acts of terrorism could be made more precise and less extensive. However, it has never affected political demonstrations or liberation struggles. The provision on the planning and preparation of acts of terrorism is also substantially restricted, but, as some have pointed out, we have proposed a separate federal provision. I have noticed that the Committee proposes to extend the rules on binding to include the penal code § 147b, on the financing of terrorism. The reason why the Ministry of Justice did not propose a similar demarcation was that such acts could be substantially affected as a contribution to the violation of Section 147(a) of the Criminal Code. However, I understand the Committee's proposal and see no fundamental concerns about it. I am pleased that the Justice Committee of the United Kingdom has largely joined the proposal, which makes an important contribution to the fight against terrorism. In order to be as well equipped as possible to carry out such assessments in the future, I will propose, at the Nordic Minister of Justice meeting later in June, that a Nordic working group be set up to identify issues and value choices which the anti-terrorism legislative measures have accepted. I would also suggest that the working group make proposals on how fundamental human rights can be reconciled with the need for legal rules that protect society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e587	We all agree that combating terrorism is important. And although much of what is being talked about, when acts of terrorism have been committed, it may well be so important to expose terrorist organisations before they start their terrorist activities. In this context, it is interesting to see which methods you want to use. It's obvious that the Government and the Council of State, after a new round, don't want to get space listening opportunities. The interesting thing about this is that if we get a message from other countries, for example. from France, where space listening is legal, we in Norway will make use of that information. However, Norway itself is not given the opportunity to obtain the same information, based on the same methodology. That is, we provide terrorist organisations with better protection for their activity in Norway than the protection they receive abroad. When one sees the need to combat terrorism and that terrorism is international – it is the same for a terrorist organisation where it has its breeding ground for terrorist acts – the Council of States can then see that limiting the means of investigation in relation to §§ 147a and 147b can almost be seen as an invitation to terrorist organisations to come to Norway to establish themselves, because then one avoids such offensive methods that can hinder their activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e596	No one is given to find out where anyone moves who will commit terrorism. I want to take a sharp distance from the fact that there is some invitation to Norway, and the sum of the suggestions that are on the table here today, among other things. the ability to react under the Foreign Affairs Act, as proposed by the Government, will safeguard the interests we have. Now, when we haven't gone into investigation methods, it's because we have a review of these methods together, not just in connection with the fact that a person actually has his own investigation case, but that one also deals with prevention. Preventive relations translated into Norwegian means monitoring. In this context, the previous government put down a selection under the direction of Odd Jarl Pedersen. This sample's setting will be completed at the next year's end of the year. It coincides with the position to be taken by the Lund Committee on the provisions of the Criminal Code on the Kingdom’s security and the security of the State head. We found it natural, which has also been the subject of a number of hearings, among others. The lawyer, that we see all the methods in one context. Then the Storting will get the methods together, and the Storting will have a chance to see the methods of counter-terrorism and other forms of criminal activity in society. It has been my intention that the Storting should get this together. Let me not go into the details so that the research methods you have today, among other things. with regard to communication control, and the skills developed by parts of the police to use them, provide a good insight into many groups – combined with good, old-fashioned testing. It is the sum of methods that provide transparency and knowledge, not least that citizens of a country decide to say when something is wrong. It is my opinion that Norwegian citizens, regardless of background and skin colour, are set to restrict themselves and combat this terror. I've had that impression before, and I haven't had it weakened. But as I said, the police methods will give Stortinget an opportunity to evaluate together, and I think that is the right approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e605	I said in my post, and I've also said it before, that I believe that one of the most important elements of the bill we are dealing with today is the possibility for the public to attack the economy behind terror. This is very difficult, but nevertheless it is very necessary. And we get at least two tools in relation to what we get a clear ban on funding, and we also get binding access. I'm very surprised that the Socialist Left Party has so far chosen to sit on the sideline here in relation to this issue. But I'll leave it. With such an intrusive instrument as bonding is, once the process has begun, there will be a charge of participation in or possession of terrorist activities, and it will also be able, to a large extent, to severely affect the person concerned financially, by means of a pooling of funds, out of place. My question to the Minister of Justice is: What is the reason why the Government has not chosen to admit those who are put in such a process, free defence assistance from the very first moment? Is there any special reason for that? Will it not help to increase the debate on the unsustainability of these legislative proposals and thus on human rights and the issue of fair trial? Is there any particular reason why we have chosen not to go into the proposal that the majority in this House is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e612	I can see that the representative of Storberget's question represents a dilemma. We did not choose to do that, as explained in the proposition, but I find that a majority in the Storting has a different opinion. Of course I'll take that with me. There's a series of such dilemmas when you go into the questions up here, and I'm not going to go further into the details of the balances right now. I don't think that's right. In fact, I think the most important thing is to hold on to what the representative Storberget stressed, that we are getting tools to attack the money flow behind the terrorist organisations, including the possibility of bonding. But it is such that to go into these matters one must have a basis to do so. And that basis requires both a particularly good investigation work and an effort to succeed. And the fact that we now have the rules, won't exempt anyone, investigating or otherwise, from acting in such a way that you actually have a case. It is then possible to assess when legal remedies are to be made available. The majority have made an assessment that I of course take note of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e619	First, I just have to be allowed to tell the representative of Storberget that we have not at all put ourselves on the side-line in this matter. On the contrary, we have promoted alternative proposals, because we believe it is important to finance this. We also know that we are bound by international resolutions and conventions in this area. But the line goes to the Dørum Council. I was in the midst of the Counter-Terrorism Committee, which is the United Nations Committee on Terrorism, and which is to monitor the follow-up of the Member States to their international commitments. I have read a letter sent by Amnesty International Norway to the Council of State, and I expect the Council of State has read this letter. It is because they are concerned that this committee does not have human rights competence. From that point of view, SV has made a proposal that we ask the Government to work for CTC to be given human rights competence. This proposal brings together no other support than our own. I find that sad, but I would still ask the Council of State to say something about whether he will follow up on this or not. In addition, I find it worrying to see that the CTC has criticised Norway for having too low a maximum penalty, and that we do not want to send people out like that without further delay. I wonder if there's a context here. The government, in its consultation note, did not want us to make a proportionality assessment when it comes to sending out criminal foreigners, which the government went back to. Is that related to the criticism that came from CTC?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e628	At least I am not aware that we have made any other assessment in this case than that it should rule proportionality. It is a fundamental principle of law. As a result, the Progress Party has criticized us for not going far enough. But we have strengthened the legislation in relation to today's legal status in terms of expulsion and expulsion. We've made it clear that we're maintaining proportionality. It's a very basic legal principle, and if we were to deviate from it, we would have to explain it. We haven't done it. When it comes to human rights issues, I said at the end of my speech that at the Nordic Minister of Justice meeting I would propose to a Nordic group to identify issues and choices of value and, in particular, to see how fundamental human rights can be reconciled with the need for legal rules. I would, of course, also like to go into that debate in other contexts. I have already been concerned about that, among other things. in contact with the bodies of the European Union in Brussels – representatives of the European Parliament, inter alia: – because I see this as important. I note that such a debate is taking place in Europe. I note that this debate is also taking place in the United States, among others. at the U.S. Congress. It goes without saying that once we have got 11 September away, these aspects of the debate have also emerged. I think that's important. But I also said in my speech that the inaction against terrorism in itself could also represent a violation of human rights. That is why the Government has promoted the sum of the proposals that are being discussed today, and where we are getting substantial support in all of this. It was precisely these considerations that were central to us during the hearing. I sensed that this approach also exists, at least in the contacts we have had with European representatives. I listen, of course, to all the letters of consultation, but I have also noticed that Amnesty expressed himself in that way, even though they do not distribute grades, that what we stood for could pass. I take note of that when it comes to the organisation's vision. I also met representatives of Amnesty when I was in Brussels, just as I met representatives of political life in the European Union, that is, both the Commission and Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e640	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e643	The Labour Party supports the fight against terrorism, and we believe that there is a need for legal provisions to implement measures to prevent and finance acts of terrorism. It is important to follow up our international obligations, and criminal tightening is important. At the same time, however, it is essential that this fight does not conflict with fundamental human rights, such as: legal certainty of people. There should therefore be no contradiction between the protection of citizens and the safeguarding of legal certainty. The fight against terrorism must not take away what terror threatens to take away from us, namely democracy and legal certainty. We'll all lose. I am pleased that the Dørum Council has listened to the hearing bodies and changed significantly on its proposal. It was a wise turnaround. We have to be careful in this type of legislation and have ice in our stomachs. It's better to take an extra round or two, so you hit exactly. I'll give that to the council for him to do. I am also pleased that the Minister of Justice has changed the bill in terms of the definition of terrorism, which he has considerably intrigued. In addition, it was important that the proposal to introduce a general ban on the planning of terrorist acts was rejected. This would have been a fundamental violation of Norwegian legal traditions. The definition of terrorism must not become too broad and the boundaries must be sharp. It shall form the basis for judgments which may involve the strictest punishment of the law. The principle of legality in criminal law, which presupposes that no one can be punished without law, makes the requirement for a clear definition particularly important. In addition, the people and the authorities must know exactly where the limits go for the powerful exercise of power that is now being requested. It is also important that we politicians do not introduce well-meaning laws that become completely unmanageable in practice. Police and prosecution authorities will then hesitate to implement the law. The Labour Party therefore proposes a further narrowing of the definition of terror in order to take account of precisely those considerations, so that the law is as precise and as manageable as possible. Amnesty International states in its annual report that September 11 led to a serious setback in the work on human rights worldwide. The organisation therefore strongly warns against the effect of the fight against terrorism launched following the attacks on the United States on 11 September. I have a great understanding of Amnesty's warnings. Their opinions should act as an alarm clock. They also point out that it has become easier for government leaders in many countries to harass groups under the cover of fighting international terrorism. The causes of terrorism are widely complex and require different types of action. Terrorism finds nourishment in poverty and in loopholes and shortcomings in global cooperation and regulation. Increased international cooperation is therefore essential both in order to combat poverty and in order to combat terrorism. It is important that we now use the debate on terrorism to strengthen the role of the United Nations and to strengthen international cooperation and agreements. As Norway sits on the UN Security Council, we have a special responsibility, and we have not least a special opportunity to put human rights on the UN agenda. Unfortunately, the Government shows a lack of interest in trying to increase global governance. The Labour Party wants primarily to send back the proposal to the Foreign Affairs Act to enable suspects to be expelled without a valid judgment. It may not be that the UDI and the Foreign Office shall be able to decide by an administrative decision whether or not a person is guilty of a terrorist act. In criminal law we demand that it be proved by almost a hundred percent probability that a person is guilty. In the case of acts of terrorism committed by Norwegian citizens who do not have Norwegian citizenship, it should therefore maintain the existence of a probability balance. My question to the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left is: What in the world would mean that these people do not have the same legal certainty as any other citizen? I had at least expected that the Left Party, which has long and good traditions to protect its citizens from abuse by the state and to fight for legal certainty, would have meant something else. But here it seems as if the panic of 11 September has taken completely over. At least it can't be that the State Council of Dørum and the Left believe that the guarantee of legal certainty plays a minor role simply because people have a different ethnic background than the one that we other Northmen have. It is important not to oppose the fight against terrorism as opposed to fundamental human rights, while at the same time following up our international obligations. The more human rights, democracy and legal certainty are guaranteed, the greater the chance that there will be no conflicts that will fuel acts of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e662	If it had been the case that the panic had gripped the government after 11 September, we would probably not have had this case on the table today. The fact that the Government has followed up so quickly, and precisely that the Government – both through this bill and through the Vulnerability message for treatment in the Storting – has come on the ground quickly shows that the Government is actually doing something, and that is important. So when the representative Gunn Karin Gjul is concerned that the panic should have gripped the government, I think there must be others it has seized. The world won't be the same again after the terrorist attack on the United States. The worst thing became suddenly a reality, and a whole world had to deal with a new threat picture. The fight against terrorism can only be won through a broad and long-term strategy, using a wide range of instruments, both military, political, diplomatic, judicial, financial and humanitarian. The United Nations has played a very important role in the design of the instruments to be used by an international community as a whole, both to cut the money flows that finance terrorism and to provide legal frameworks to bring down terrorist activities. The threat of terrorism in Norway has been estimated to be medium to small. But it's important not to be naive, we have to take our precautions against what seems unimaginable. Norway has clear obligations under international law that must be followed up. The UN has played a very central role in the international community's common fight against terrorism, which affects individuals and threatens democracy and social structure. Last Monday we were reminded that the al-Qaida network is working relentlessly and purposefully to hit even more innocent people, and that no method seems to be excluded in the terrorist war. The attack in the United States underlines the need for Norway to have the necessary legal frameworks and the necessary preparedness to be as equipped as possible to prevent a disaster. I would like to commend Minister of Justice Dørum, who was on the field quickly after this became known, and announced a review of Norwegian emergency plans against, among other things. radioactive terrorist bombs. After 11 September, a great and thorough effort has been made by the Government to provide the necessary preparedness and to ensure that we comply with our obligations under international law. That is why we in the Right are pleased that a broad majority of the Committee supports the Department's proposal for a penalty order in Section 147a of the Penal Code, which explicitly targets acts of terrorism. Following the proposal, specific particularly serious criminal acts are considered terrorist acts, if they are carried out with a specific intention. Is the purpose of such action, for example: disrupting important societal functions or creating serious fears in a population will fall within the definition of terrorism. I would like to underline the need to have such a definition, as this is among other things. have implications for the methods of investigation available: the prohibition of the financing of terrorism, the licensing and freezing of funds and the expulsion of non-residents involved in terrorist activities. The legislative proposal has been drawn up in a pattern from our Nordic neighbours and the other European countries. For the Right and the Government, it is important that we get a common understanding of when we face terrorism, as terrorism knows no borders. This is also essential to prevent Norway from being seen as a country from which terrorism is easily managed and committed. Norway shall never become a haven for terrorist networks. It is necessary to combat terrorism by different methods and means. Combating the financing of terrorism is absolutely necessary in a world where terrorism is becoming increasingly global. In the Government's proposal, our obligations under international law will be well respected, both in terms of the ban on the financing of terrorism and in terms of access to the binding and freezing of such funds. This bill is an important contribution to combating terrorism. Human rights and legal certainty are fully respected, and the legislative changes provide us with the means to protect precisely these values from attacks by organised terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e688	The speakers who are now given the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e691	Despite the turbo speed at the deposit instead, I did not finish everything I was going to say. I'm sorry that I have to take at least one three minutes. I have to say something about the proposed changes to the Foreign Affairs Act. It was said here by Mr Ellingen's representative that there is nothing new about what is now being proposed, that only an administrative decision is required. Well, that's something new. Until now, it has been that if you pose a security risk to the state, you can be expelled. But that provision is almost never used. What you're doing now is expanding it. What is common, and what is an important principle, by similarity to the law, and that you are innocent until the opposite is proven, is that you have to have a rightful judgment before you are considered guilty. So that's going to cancel out right over here. Then I think it's time to ask the question: is it that equality for the law and important principles of legal security that apply to us does not apply to foreigners? In fact, I think it's totally unsustainable. What upset me even more was that the department in the consultation round did not even want to take into account human aspects of this. In fact, I think you should, and at least you should do it if you're going to send people out of the country without them being convicted first. It does not want the Progress Party – and it does not surprise me. I have to ask the Council of State for one thing. I have received an enquiry from a law professor who has been active in the consultation round in relation to this, who asked for it to be fixed in this room, which has emerged in a survey from Folketing in Denmark. It sounds, among other things, as follows: ‘S, V, KF, SF, RV and EL’ – which are thus different parties from right to left – ‘want to emphasise that the concept of terrorism is defined in relation to the legitimate state based on universal values: human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The legitimate state is based on the principle of democracy and the rule of law. Terrorism poses a threat to democracy, the free exercise of human rights and economic and social development.’ They thus state that rebellion against a power that does not respect fundamental democratic values of human rights cannot be included in the definition of terror. Some people might think that this is totally unnecessary. At least that doesn't mean the professor who contacted me yesterday. I do not think that is unnecessary either. I think it is important that we together can confirm this in this debate, and I ask that the Council of State touch on this in its last speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e707	One of the most important tasks of the Western world is to contribute to cutting the flow of money to terrorists. The UN Convention and the Government’s proposal for a ban on the financing of terrorism are fundamental to Norway’s contribution to cutting this lifeblood. The legislative changes stem in part from the 1999 UN Convention on Terrorist Financing and the Security Council Resolution of September 2001. The United Nations has been an important driver for a coherent regulatory framework to combat terrorism. Rarely has there been a greater need for international obligatory cooperation in order to prevent terrorists from being able to operate freely, so a new section 147(b) of the Penal Code has also been proposed – which is, therefore, in favour of financing terrorist acts. So this is what the Socialist Left Party is against. They say it's unnecessary to get a new paragraph like this. International cooperation is not to be isolated only in the fight against terrorism – of course not. There is no contradiction between wanting to have laws against terrorism and combating both international crime, money laundering, corruption and poverty. So when the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen makes it clear that someone doesn't want and won't use certain types of banks because it's contrary to one's own ideological opinion, the very purpose of these laws is to have legislation against banks that finance terrorist activities. Is it then the SV's view that it is acceptable that certain banks should finance terrorist activities? It can't possibly be like this? In addition, there was a long reasoning on Israel, Indonesia, Russia and the so-called terrorist activities of a number of countries. I have to say that it can't be that suicide actionists inside Israel are allowed to run freely with their actions? There can be no good policy in the fight against terrorism. After all, good policy must be to combat such activity, so that human rights are also accepted internally in Israel. It must apply to human rights also to these people, not just to one side. Then I'll be allowed to ask SV: There's been a report – from David Halevy's book «Inside the PLO» – on PLO's wealth, which has taken a leap up to NOK 440 billion in the last year. The property is fully controlled by Arafat and possibly two close employees, and the PLO pays at least DKK 1.3 billion each year to Arafat's network of private accounts. Is this a type of business that SV also wants to review, or is this an enterprise that is OK for SV? We must be principled in relation to the fight against terrorism, and we must be principled in relation to what kind of funding we want banks to be allowed to operate. We can't separate out and say that some states are going to have to do this, and others are not going to do that. Here we have to be principled and have one attitude all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e721	What is good to see at the end of this case is that, in my opinion, SV is largely alone in this case. I think that's reassuring. I think it is reassuring for a majority to take inwards that there is a need to show that terrorism is to be combated and that there is a need for a law that makes it visible, and not least that it takes care of its international obligations. But I record that SV still does not want to. And then you're very concerned again about how the Palestinians are doing. It's a human right to be occupied with. At the same time, you are similarly less concerned, it seems, about what is happening in Israel, and human suicide bombers there. I think that's a paradox, not least given that SV uses to attack the Progress Party for our attitudes, which apparently spreads foreign fear. Then my question becomes back to SV: If it is such that the Progress Party spreads fear of alienation, what about SV's attitudes towards the Jews in that way? It doesn't seem like SV is particularly concerned about that side, but has a somewhat distorted political approach to the situation in the Middle East. And then the usual fear of the United States. We do not have it, at least, and it should not surprise the representative of Inga Marte Thorkildsen. If there is a country that has taken hold of and set up on the western side of the world every time it has been needed, it has certainly been the United States. And we don't have to go that far back to see the need for it. When Europe has been ringing around and wondering what to do, the United States has acted, and then Europe has come down to it. We can also go back to our own story and see what kind of contributions we've got there. I think there's a lack of respect for one of the world's leading states. The representative should take inwards that that can't make sense. So I record that SV has a double moral that I would strongly distance from, but I am happy to confirm at the same time that the distance between us and SV, at least in this case, is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e732	As the rapporteur, I must say that I am pleased with the debate we have had in this Chamber. I think it has been balanced and, to some extent, good, with one exception, and it is they, in part, hard results that the representative Dybevig came up with against all those who have different proposals for the Right themselves, and who express amazement at such proposals. He almost beats us in the heart with those who do not want to support the fight against terrorism, and believes that the Workers' Party should be a crusade against capitalism. I actually experience it so that the representative Dybevig's first post was a crusade of capitalism. The responsibility of everyone in this Chamber to address issues which, to the extent that all parties have gone into, both the question of defence assistance and the question of border crossing – there are very difficult borderlines in relation to the planning aspect, rather difficult borderlines in relation to the issue of expulsion – and round off the issue of terrorists from the sidelines to the sidelines. It is incredibly easy from this pulpit to make such statements. But the problem is that we have actually assumed an international obligation not to let Norway be a safe haven for terrorists, and that is also that we have a responsibility and a duty to prosecute those who had to come to Norway. The changes now being made by the representative of the Deepevig Seas contribute to penalising foreigners who commit criminal offences abroad in Norway, in which case it is not so easy to follow the argumentation or rhetoric or statements of the representative of Dybevig that these should be hunted from shame to shame. If we're going to follow such a code and make it effective, then there's actually a question of how far we're able to deal with such issues when the international community requires it of us. It is not certain that it is automatically right that we should send them back to the country where you, for example. has the basis for the terrorist activity with which they operate. This is complicated, and I am glad that at least the other Justice Department has addressed these problems of such great seriousness, so that this debate has become as it has actually become. So to what I see as the most important thing – committee leader Helleland was also involved in it – to create a common understanding of the legislation that we have discussed here. I think it's crucial. And then the level of debate has to be raised beyond the pure Russian newspaper level that we were originally served.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e741	No Marte Thorkildsen gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e744	To the question from Deepevig instead: Of course, we always want review and full transparency about such types of transactions. But what's a point here is that we have to try to put in the resources to get the backers. There's my point in relation to the Somalis. There is no point in taking a random Somali who is in the dilemma that I outlined, the point is to take those who are behind, those who are responsible, and not one who does not intend to back up on terrorism. And then the representative asked Dybevig if it should be up to everyone's ideological conviction. But we really don't live in an ideological vacuum, do we? There are some who have a greater hegemony than others, and this was just lit up in relation to the discussion about Israel and Palestine. Who is it that has the hegemony to define who it is that is terrorist, and who is not a terrorist? There is the core of the problem, and that is why we in SV have asked ourselves as we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e754	The rapporteur gave a calm tone, and I think it has also held the debate. But there is also no need to draw the tone very high on the Foreign Affairs Act. We have quite a lot of powers under the Foreign Affairs Act today, and we have it in relation to crime that is less serious than what is the topic in the Chamber today. I remember it. And when we discuss that crime, it tends to agree that you should respond, for example. According to Annette Thommessen's words that if you abuse hospitality at a time when you don't live here, it should be reacted. So I can see that what we've done is an important clarification that is related to the definition of terror. Then you can disagree, it's completely fair. But we have known powers, and we have not removed the proportionality that has been asserted and for which the Progress Party has criticised the government parties. In the case of a few themes raised by the representative of Thorkildsen, it is not that you are involved in, for example. a financial liability, i.e.: you do not get hit if you do not know, and you do not get hit by any interaction. And if you were to know that a funding system is being misused for something -- well, then it was actually time for the international community to sit down and figure out how to secure responsible citizens to get their funds transferred properly. There are many channels for which it is precisely in such a situation that citizens should be informed so that they can be sure of what they want to achieve in a peaceful and sensible way. Having an open debate about it, we tolerate it well as a society, so that the innocent can promote their actions, without risking being involved in purposes where someone could abuse them. Then there is a general question on the basis of the debate in the Danish Parliament. I just want to state that the legislation promoted here today is within the framework of all the international conventions on which we respect and build. And I said in my post that passivity can itself be a human rights violation in relation to terrorist activity. I have mentioned in the proposition, to my recollection – and also in my post – that it has never been the intention to hit political demonstrations or liberation movements. But it is clear that if a movement – let's say – ANC, which we fully accepted as a movement of freedom, had found that to fight the fight in South Africa, one should have done it at any time and anywhere and with any means, one would have blown the framework. And to take a historical example, I don't define the Red Army faction as a liberation movement, even though they might have defined themselves like that. So we have to be able to conduct a reflected political debate about who is holding within themselves a broad form of what democracy tolerates, and who with a self-appointed morale thinks that they can settle at any time and anywhere and not follow any rules of the game. We can take that debate. That is why we have jurisdictions: in order for them to draw the limit in connection with that debate. None of those limits are repealed by the legislation here today. Those boundaries will exist as part of the public debate in society, and they will exist as part of the debate linked to legal proceedings. And if you're going to get into a courtroom, it's still the same under today's law, that in order to have a case, you have to have a witness, and you also have to have enough evidence to promote a case. The rule of law shall not be repealed at any point in the day’s proceedings, but shall extend into areas where lawlessness is not permitted to exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e765	I just want to clarify on the issue of the Foreign Affairs Act: it is quite clear, at least from the Labour Party, that we believe that terrorists should be expelled. I also fully agree with the Council of States that there are far less serious criminal acts that could lead to expulsion, but what has been the principle, which we have tangential to today's debate, is the question of when to expel, and in the light of what, and not the question of what action has been taken. It is quite clear that today you can be expelled for doing damage or some other act of violence that has no connection to terrorism, and we support that in the Workers' Party. We also believe that it is important that those who violate these provisions have the right of expulsion. But the question is, are you going to demand that there be a judicial verdict before it happens? It is, of course, a principle that needs to be introduced more fully when the majority opens up in order not to have a enforceable judgment. This very difficult decision is left to a completely different type of procedure from the one in the courts, where both opposition and the opportunity to have their defence and to conduct their counter-arguments. Let there be no doubt that the Workers' Party also believes that there should be access to deportation of terrorists, but there are questions about when and on the basis of what.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e772	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e788	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: right 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e795	Norway has been one of the worst in terms of the use of care. I'll put it a little bit on the head, but it's not far from the truth. Because we cannot just ignore the truth in our eyes, namely that Norwegian legislation on custody and the practice of the rules has been criticised by international control bodies. Both the European Torture Monitoring Committee and the United Nations Torture Committee have been concerned with the use of isolation and detention restrictions. The UN Committee on Human Rights has expressed concern at the unreasonable length of detention in some cases. It is high time that the Storting today adopts this proposition, which is a very good proposition, and which the Committee at most places itself in the back. I am particularly pleased that the Progress Party is contributing to the majority of all of the Government's proposals. In this proposition, the Ministry of Justice is promoting many proposals for changes to the criminal law and to the Criminal Procedures Act. Most of the proposals are aimed at ensuring more rapid criminal proceedings, so that more effective criminal justice can be achieved. More effective criminal justice can strengthen both the preventive effect of penalties and the trust in the judicial system. But we are also going to adopt proposals for other purposes today. The main proposal may be the amendments to the rules on custody. In June 1999, the Ministry of Justice appointed two working parties to examine the length of proceedings in criminal matters. The proposal deals with most other legislative proposals proposed by the two working parties. There are many good and important proposals that we are going to adopt today, first of all what I want to start with, which is one of the most important ones for the Right in this proposition, namely the changes in the use of custody. A unanimous committee is pleased that the ministry is proposing changes that will ensure that Norway actually has to comply with its international obligations, as Norwegian legislation and practices on care and isolation have until now been criticised by international control bodies. The Committee would stress that effective criminal proceedings will both enhance the preventative effect of penalties and increase confidence in the judicial system, and is pleased that work has resulted in many proposals which together could increase the effectiveness of the criminal procedure. Today, the law does not provide for an absolute maximum period of time for the manufacture of arrested persons. One working group proposes to extend the period of manufacture of the goods to four days from the date of entry into service. The idea behind the proposal is that, overall, a longer manufacturing period will lead to fewer prisons and fewer days in arrest. The Ministry stated in the consultation note that they agreed that a longer manufacturing period could contribute to a reduction in the overall maintenance period, and agreed to an extension for a probationary period of three years. The Ministry proposed to extend the manufacturing period to 72 hours in doubt. There we shall remember that the European Convention on Human Rights Article 5(1). 3 suggests that, in addition to the absolute time limit, the requirement that a manufacture be carried out as soon as possible is continued. The hearing opinions are divided in the view whether or not the manufacturing period should be extended. However, it is proposed that the deadline for manufacture should be extended to three days after application and that the deadline should be absolute. The person intended shall be released immediately if the manufacture cannot take place within the absolute time limit. It is further clarified in the law that love of sentencing is to be treated as soon as possible. The Committee believes that an extended manufacturing period would give the police better time to investigate to obtain evidence or to check the suspect out of the case, so that care is unnecessary. In addition, the court will have a better basis for assessing prison issues. The Committee agrees with the proposal that this time limit should be absolute and that it should remain in the law that it should be produced as soon as possible. The Committee would also like to see a post-control of the changes in the manufacturing period to assess whether the changes have worked according to their intentions. I would also like to stress that I have great faith that these changes in the law will in the long term lead to fewer days of care. Today, as a general rule, an apprehended person is not entitled to defender at the expense of the public until he may be produced for custody. Only if ‘special reasons speak for it’ may the court appoint a defender to assist the person to whom it is addressed before manufacture. The proposal proposes that the person to whom it is addressed should be entitled to defender at the public expense if he is not released at the latest on the day following the attack. The Committee considers that this would constitute an important control function as long as those addressed have not been brought to justice. The fact that the accused is appointed earlier by a defender would counterbalance the negative aspects of an extended manufacturing period. The respondent may act as an indictor against the police and the prosecution authority and will gain some insight into the investigation. The Committee also agrees with the proposal that the prosecution authority should have access to the appointment of the defender. The principle of freedom of defence will otherwise be established. The proposal discusses the possibility of introducing a standard period of 14 days, as has been done in Sweden, among others. because it can ensure better progress in police investigations. The Committee supports the majority of the hearing bodies and the ministry, which believe that this will involve further work on the courts, police and prosecution authorities. The number of manufactures will increase and confiscate large resources, and today’s system has the flexibility that often depends on during the investigation of complex issues. However, the Committee would stress that the possibility of setting the deadline to four weeks should be used with caution. In cases against young offenders and in cases where those targeted are in custody, there are special needs that make it particularly important to deal with the matter quickly. The Committee stresses that a judgment should be made quickly after the offence, which will increase the preventive effect of the penalty. The Committee is aware that the rules on free choice of defence help to delay many criminal cases. Because there are often a few profiled defence lawyers who are wanted by a larger number of defendants, the Committee agrees that there will be an embellishment of the conditions for the right to appoint another defender, as it may help to resolve cases more quickly. The Committee has noted that there is a problem for the police that witnesses and suspects fail to attend police hearings after a call. This confiscates resources from the police and leads to a delay in the running of the cases. The Committee considers that the introduction of the obligation to meet witnesses and suspects to some extent will remedy the problem and that witnesses have a moral duty to provide information that can clarify crimes but do not want to legislate an obligation to explain them to the police. The Committee is aware that Naziry is an increasing problem and causes major financial losses to the commercial industry and insurance companies each year. It is also worrying that many start early on with this type of crime, and perhaps continue with more serious forms of crime. The Committee is divided into this proposal. I find it very difficult to understand the great concern of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left in this regard. It is a little strange that it is good for these parties to apprehend people who steal goods for more than NOK 2000 but if they nod something that costs less than NOK 2000 it should not be possible to apprehend them privately. I find it very difficult to understand the arguments of the Workers' Party and SV regarding the principle side of this case. For the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, like the Ministry, we see certain concerns about giving private access to apprehension and detention. But we've come to the conclusion that it's still right to go in so that private individuals can take action, since novices are rarely prosecuted by criminal law, and a right of access to custody may appear to be preventative. In particular, the hearing opinions of the Children’s Ombudsman and the Ministry of Children’s and Family Affairs weigh heavily. They believe that this is an important measure to avoid many young Nazis continuing a criminal racetrack, and it was crucial in this case on many points for the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e844	The Labour Party agrees that there is a need for significant improvements in Norwegian criminal justice, both in the interests of law enforcement and not least in the interests of individuals meeting the system either as intended or as insulted. For both sighted and offended persons, the time between the action is revealed until a possible charge is taken out of the picture. It is therefore an important improvement in setting time limits for criminal proceedings. The Government is now proposing that the time limit for the presentation of an indicted person to the court be extended to three days. Under today's law, an arrested person shall: ‘as soon as possible and as far as possible on the day following the attack’» are produced for questioning. But the law does not set an absolute deadline for bringing arrested persons to justice. Under the European Convention on Human Rights – EMC – Article 5(5) 3 has the right to promptly be brought before the Court of Justice. There is no doubt that the new proposal is at the extreme of what the European Court of Human Rights approves. However, the Labour Party will support the proposal because this provision is made absolute and because it is likely to reduce the need for detention. We are pleased that the Government proposes to carry out a back-testing that will identify whether the extension has resulted in a reduced need for custody. Should it show that it does not lead to fewer custody prisons, the Workers' Party and SV believe that everything then speaks to go back to the old manufacturing deadline. We believe that this proposal is moving within the limits of what the EMK allows, and should it be possible to defend itself at all for such a long time, the intention of smaller custody prisons must be activated. Although the manufacturing period is now extended to three days, the law still has to state that the manufacture is to take place as quickly as possible. A unanimous committee believes that caution should be exercised in waiting for the production to be completed for as long as the deadline allows. We think it should only be used in very complicated cases. The greatest disagreement in the Committee is in the matter of the right of private individuals to apprehend nominees. The Labour Party opposes the proposal to increase the penalty framework for nasking with the intention of exceeding the six-month rule and thus comply with the criminal framework clause 171 of the Criminal Procedures Act. If the penal framework of the Nazi regime is changed, the police will have a general access to attack the nostrils and, under the same conditions as the police, will be entitled to attack the nostrils if they are ‘hit or persecuted on fresh or fresh tracks’. This extension of access for private individuals to apprehend is against the Workers' Party. In the last few months, we've seen a number of examples from the government parties that they're eager to give private individuals power. We have seen it in relation to the fact that private security companies will be given the opportunity to deal with prisoner transport, military missions to transport asylum seekers, and personnel in Oslo Sporvejer will be given the power to restrain trampling. We believe it is the task of the police to exercise power over individuals. I am concerned that it is now being opened for private security companies and others to be more and more able to run around and play the police. The rules of apprehension are complicated and discretionary and therefore very difficult for individuals to handle. We believe that the danger is great that the nostrils are apprehended to a greater extent than what the law opens to, and therefore that it is used more power and coercion than what is lawful. This may therefore lead to criminal liability for the person making the attack. We also disagree with the representative of Hofstad that this is a means of preventing juvenile criminals. The fact is that young people under the age of 15 have no opportunity to be apprehended, and it is also important to be very restrictive to address young people under the age of 18. So these aren't at all measures you can take against juvenile criminals. In addition, a study conducted in Follo shows that 30 pst. of those who are today taken for nudity are innocent. A test of whether this is a good suggestion, is to think about how you would have reacted yourself if an unwarranted instrument without a reason gripped you and accused you of napping. Would you like to go back to that store later? And what about your neighbor saw you when you were physically led away by a weighter without a reason? The legal certainty of people should be stronger than the need of the retail industry to ensure profit. One of the most important factors for the Workers' Party is that in the largest cities, where the criminally burdened environments have become very heavy, there is a high risk of imposing on shopkeepers to apprehend nominees. I don't think it's responsible to instruct the young girl who works at night in 7-Eleven to hold back people who steal cigarettes. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal to which the Workers' Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e879	Gunn Karin Gjul has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e882	All the essential elements of the proposals are adaptation to commitments undertaken internationally by Norway. These proposals have been presented in a very good way by the rapporteur, and I do not see any need to go into this further. But it's a matter and a proposal that creates a certain disunity, and that's the question of nascrisy. I notice that the Workers' Party and SV in their comments see it as follows: ‘The danger that nostrils will be apprehended to a greater extent than the law opens up’ is the problem. I guess you have this fear that too many people are being held responsible for their criminal acts. I guess that's something you see in some debates, that the perpetrator is more important than the victim. The question arises as to whether you should be able to make a private attack. So there's an opportunity to do a private attack, not as the Workers' Party claims, that someone is required to do it. There is nothing in the proposal that obliges shopkeepers to do anything, if they consider that there are other more appropriate solutions, or if their security would be compromised in any way. It is interesting that the Workers' Party wants to have the current ceiling as a determining factor in whether or not one can be apprehended. Part of Oslo sees nostrils speculating in what amount you're nodding for, so that you can avoid unpleasant situations. It may well be so difficult in principle for the Workers' Party that the price and the amount you are operating at depends on how a special product, or more goods, is priced in the individual store – that is to say, a number of goods can be mentioned in one store because the store is expensive, while noking the same number of goods in another store means that you cannot be apprehended, because the store has the price of the goods somewhat lower. I am somewhat uncertain as to whether this price calculation is to be considered as determining whether or not one can be apprehended. What's interesting about the Workers' Party's comments is that you don't think Naziry is a problem, because you can get caught up in comics, i.e. where there's repetition. I would like to know how the Workers' Party looks at the possibility that a store clerk or an instrument will know whether he is a repeater or not. If you have a nose job, you should first ask yourself, 'Have you done this before?' In that case, I can apprehend you. If not, I'm sorry to let you go. I am a little uncertain as to whether the demands made by the Workers' Party for clear guidelines on how to deal with the legal situation are reinforced by the Workers' Party's reasoning and proposals, or not. I see it so it's easier to look at nasking as nasting, and then you get to relate to it. Depending on whether the amount is NOK 2400 or NOK 2600, or whether he has been in a store before or not, would probably create more confusion than clarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e898	First, I want to join in what was said by Gunn Karin Gjul, as our two parties, the Workers' Party and SV, stand together in the vast majority of what comes out in this setting, except for the isolation provisions. But I'll come back to that soon. I think it is very important to stress that the extension of the term of detention does not exceed what is permitted by the European Convention on Human Rights. At least on the SV side, we are in doubt about the proposal to extend the deadline to three days. But we assume, if it turns out when an evaluation of this expansion has been carried out, that the term of custody has not been reduced, that we are going back to the old system, or that new arrangements are being made to ensure that the prisoners do not suffer more harm than is strictly necessary. I want to spend my time talking about the isolation regulations. There are almost no countries other than Norway that practice full isolation, at least not among the countries with which we like to compare. When I was visiting some psychologists who work closely inside the prison, they told me about an incident where someone had been sitting for over a year completely isolated and came out of prison with a list of killings. He had become so aggressive that he wanted to kill. That's why it's not right, as was said by the representative Kukkestad instead, that this is just about whether you want to take sides for the victim or for the perpetrator. On the SV side, it is extremely important that we in criminal policy also enable people to come back to society without being full of mental problems, full of aggression and full of behavioral problems that make them run straight into crime again, creating a danger for us others, who are actually going to meet these people. With regard to the isolation provisions, it was tempting for SV to propose that we should avoid full isolation, that from now on we should be able to practice only partial isolation. I'll explain a little bit about why. Health is worse among prisoners than among the rest of the population. Tor Gamman writes in Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association, no. 18/1995, that isolation appears to worsen a pre-established disease and increase the need for treatment and hospitalisation. In addition, suicide is most common in the closed forms of reconciliation, especially care and isolation are a heavy burden. According to Dr. Dag Fosmark, who is a former prison doctor at Bredtveit prison, acute isolation syndromes are common to those in isolation, such as concentration problems, memory impairment, broken rhythm and sleep problems. The same is true of nightmares, anxiety attacks and self-destructive behaviour, which in worst cases can get fatal outcomes, which we have seen too many cases of. After one to two months, the plagues may slip into a chronic isolation syndrome, where the plagues become more pronounced, as well as their absence, even if isolation ceases. Then it is reassuring to know that prisoners under the age of 18 cannot remain isolated for more than two months. How many lives are we ruining completely unnecessary with this? And for how many prisoners do we destroy the possibility of getting back to society in a proper way, so that no one else will again be harmed, because they have had so strong traumatic experiences in prison that they are unable to function normally? The ones I told you about instead, they decide that they will at least take revenge. Nobody cares about them anyway, they can't function in society and are therefore pressured into crime. In addition, we believe that this violates Article 5 of the Declaration of Human Rights: «No one shall be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment». Are Höidal, Director of Oslo County Prison, said to the Newspaper on 4 March this year: ‘What we have to ensure is that no one is harmed by sitting in isolation on the custody cell, but that they feel that they are being followed up by the employees despite the isolation.’ How is this consistent with the reference made by the above-mentioned doctor to adverse effects, the criticism of the torture committee and research carried out in this area? Is it not possible to get hurt? I will ask the Council of State to take a closer look at this next time we get back to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e928	The question of Norway’s use of care has been much debated, not least because international agencies such as the European Torture Monitoring Committee and the UN Torture Committee have criticised Norway’s use of care. The Christian People's Party would stress that it is important for Norway to practice detention in a manner consistent with our international obligations. Such rules as they are today, an apprehended person ‘as soon as possible and as far as possible the day following the apprehension’ shall be produced for questioning. The Court of Human Rights has considered that the limit on the length of time a person may be in custody prior to presentation varies on a case-by-case basis, but that after four days, production — or release — is completely at the limit of what is acceptable. One could be tempted to believe that if we are going to tighten up the use of custody, we should at least not extend the time limit for the production of arrested persons in court. However, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it is likely that a somewhat longer period than we have today can contribute to the efficiency of the system, and in practice lead to fewer days in custody of the one being seized. There are several reasons for this, including: The police will have more time to investigate the matter, so that it becomes more quickly clear whether there are sufficient grounds for suspicion or not. The investigation may be so far in three days that there is no longer any risk of evidence being wasted, and the police will have better opportunities to investigate alternatives to prison, for example. treatment. Another point that I would like to stress is that it will actually be easier for the court to impose demands on the police's progress and work when the deadlines are slightly longer. Of course, there are also counter-conceptions about imposing longer deadlines. We're not blind to them. However, the Ministry also proposes other changes aimed at reducing the disadvantages of the affected person, such as: shall be entitled to defender at the expense of the public if he is not released at the latest on the day following the attack. The respondent will be involved in and verify that the case is properly dealt with and may be an inciter to police and prosecution authorities. It's not always possible to get the right to appoint a defender. In the Christian People's Party, we are therefore pleased that the prosecution authority is also given access to appoint a defender. We also agree that no maximum limit should be set for the duration of custody and that the time limit for custody should be maintained for four weeks at a time. A shorter deadline could lead to further work for police and prosecution authorities. I also have to mention some of the other important changes that we are about to make today. The Christian People’s Party supports the setting of concrete deadlines for the start of the main negotiations in cases involving young offenders and who have been sentenced to custody. In these cases, it is particularly important that the cases do not go far. A rapid procedure may help prevent young or new — or perhaps a combination — offenders from a further criminal career. A unanimous committee is in favour of making certain restrictions on the right to freedom of defence. We do that because it's sometimes more important that the case comes up for treatment than that the purpose is to choose the defender on the top shelf. It's a fact that some defenders of the type of nationalism are wanted by a large number of sighted people. However, where the person concerned is given the option of choosing from among qualified but less profiled lawyers, the legal certainty of the defendant is not compromised and it is important that the cases do not remain in the system. The Christian People's Party feels it makes sense to review the legislative changes that could help to shed light on the real consequences of the scheme. Post-control is also important to determine whether we actually achieve what we want to achieve. If that were not the case, the Christian People's Party would be open to reconsider the question. It is good that we now have changes in the criminal procedure law that will result in more effective and more rapid criminal proceedings. Both the Justice Committee, the Ministry and many others working on these kinds of issues have been busy doing something about today's system. It goes without saying that it's unfortunate, both for the victim and for the perpetrator, if a criminal case becomes lying months and years before anything happens. The Christian People's Party is pleased that today we have taken a step on the way to better criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e951	The Ministry of Justice has worked for a long time to reduce the length of the procedure. This important work has been a high priority. More rapid handling of criminal cases improves the possibility of clarification and conviction. Furthermore, there is reason to believe that rapid treatment strengthens the effectiveness of punishment. It is especially important that young offenders be judged quickly. In addition, the burden on the offended person is reduced, which will be able to put the criminal case behind him more quickly. The work on speeding up criminal proceedings has been carried out on many fronts: legislative changes, routine changes, competence measures and IT measures in addition to the national attorney’s directives on the processing time. The number of people punished last year suggests that the measures already taken have worked. 43 000 people were punished in this country in 2001. That's an increase of 56 pst. from the previous year. It is now important to continue and strengthen this trend by implementing the last group of legislative measures aimed at increasing the rate of criminal proceedings. First, the proposed rules on the use and duration of insulation under care. Isolation can be a major burden on prison mental health. That is why I believe that, unlike today, it should be the right to decide whether or not to isolate a person. In addition, I propose that the court set a deadline for the isolation of a maximum of two weeks. That period may be extended by the court, normally by two weeks at a time. In order to prevent isolation from going beyond the mental health of the prison, a maximum limit should be set for the length of time for which a person can be kept in isolation. The limit should depend on the seriousness of the offence for which it is intended. The proposal to regulate the use of insulation was presented to the United Nations Torture Committee when Norway was examined on 6 and 7 May this year. The Committee was pleased with the proposal. So to the measures to increase the rate of criminal proceedings. First of all, I am in favour of extending the deadline for production for imprisonment to three days in exceptional cases. The aim is to reduce the need for detention. The police will have time to check out a targeted case and to ensure important evidence before the manufacturing deadline expires. In some cases, therefore, there will no longer be a need to keep the person in custody. It is a clear prerequisite for the proposal not to increase the use of police arrests. Today, the instruction is that the transfer from police detention to prison should take place not later than the day after the court has given a prison notice. In order to ensure that an extended manufacturing period does not lead to an extension of the use of police arrests, a regulatory home has been included in the proposal for Section 183. As a result, it is possible to provide for the speed with which the prisoner must be transferred from police detention to prison after the arrest. At the same time, as some speakers have pointed out, an evaluation of the scheme has been proposed after one year to be completed after two years. It is a faster approach than was suggested before, to ensure that the proposal is functioning properly, and that it is not presented in a way that violates important interests of legal certainty. Secondly, I propose that deadlines be introduced for the main negotiation. In those cases where the person concerned is under 18 years of age or is in custody, the main proceedings shall normally begin within six weeks after the case has been brought before the courts of law, and eight weeks after the appeal to the law of the law of the law was decided. Furthermore, I am promoting a proposal to restrict the free choice of defence. The reason for this is that some people in sight choose popular defenders, who do not have the opportunity to stand in court for a long time. The choice of defender should not lead to a delay of importance. But the main rule will still be free defence choice. At the investigation stage, I go in to ensure that witnesses are given the duty to meet the police. On the other hand, I do not propose that the witnesses be obliged to explain themselves. Only once the impact of the meeting obligation has been evaluated will it be possible to assess whether there is also a need for clarification. The majority has already dealt with several legal cases to ensure that criminal proceedings are speeded up. With the law now under consideration, most of the legal work is finished in this round. The remaining questions are explained in the proposition. However, the Ministry will continue to follow developments closely in the future. Let me then make a few comments at the end of the debate on Nazism. There must be reason to recall, as has also been pointed out in the proposition, that the kind of civil liability referred to here already exists under certain conditions today. What happens is that there's an opportunity for it, but it's an occasion. And the reason is not that you're e.g. can hold someone back over a longer period of time, there are clear rules of play for that. The reason why this theme travels is two-part. Firstly, nascheri is a significant problem for the commercial and service industries, not least in the urban core of our large cities. Secondly, there are situations where, in particular, young offenders, by being subjected to a reaction, may be stopped very early in their career. The fact that you are being subjected to a reaction doesn't mean that you are being treated in an unwise way. The most important thing is that you are seen early, so that what could end up wrong, what could end up in a much more serious case, it responds to. At least that's an important consideration from my point of view, along with the consideration that we can't have the legal state that it's just to put a culture where you can feed and think you can get away with it. But as I said, there are very clear rules for the system that has been promoted, and of course we will follow them. When I'm not in favour of a licence obligation, it's simply because not everyone's wearing a licence paper. At least I do not want to be in favour of compulsory collection of identification papers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e991	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1007	This setting is unanimous, so there will hardly be any significant debate on this. This is an extension of the desire for simplification, which must also be seen in relation to one place to be able to contact, and one address to send their enquiries to. And then the courts themselves have internal assessment of how they have their normal work distribution. The reason why I chose to take the floor is that, especially from Oslo, it has come up with questions as to whether it would be appropriate to make this adjustment before one has taken a decision on how to organise the three courts of First Instance in Oslo in the future. In this regard, the ministry has been given an opportunity to solve this by allowing Oslo to postpone this until this decision has been taken, and I assume that the ministry will take a close look at it and comply with it. And then, of course, Oslo will naturally fall in when it might be the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1018	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 453]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1031	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 - 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1038	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gunn Karin Gjul on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 2-5, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 6-8, by Mr Noma Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 9 and 10, from Jan Simonsen. The President first takes note of the proposals. One, four, five, seven, eight, nine and ten. Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for a police receipt scheme to ensure that persons visited receive an on-the-spot receipt, showing the type of check, date of check, time, place and service number of the person controlling.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary proposals to increase the penalties for the most serious criminal offences in the penal code from 21 years in prison to 30 years in prison.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to limit the right of the courts to impose conditional penalties in cases of serious violence.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose amendments to the Arms Act so that the acquisition authorisation for weapons must be renewed every 5 years.’; Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Arms Regulation in order to require 6 months of active membership of gunfighters’ teams before consenting to the acquisition of rifles.’ Proposal No. 9, from the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary proposals to punish deliberate killing with life imprisonment and to punish deliberate killing with imprisonment for up to 30 years’ time.’ Proposal No. 10, from the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so as not to be able to impose conditional penalties on serious acts of violence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1092	These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1159	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the General Civil Confession 22 May 1902 No. 10 shall be amended as follows: the first sentence of Article 352a shall be replaced by the following: up to 1 year imprisonment shall punish the person who carries, intentionally or grossly negligently in a public place, a knife or similar sharp instrument suitable for use in the event of physical incarceration.§ 385 shall be replaced by the following: up to 2 years imprisonment shall punish the person who is in the course of a fight for a knife or other particularly dangerous instrument.’ [[punishment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1242	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 4 August 1995 53 on the police section 7(a) is replaced by the following:The police may visit a person or vehicle in a public place when there is reason to check that someone is in possession of or keeps weapons. [[police law]] Weapons shall mean firearms or weapons which are prohibited from being held under the law of the armed forces. Furthermore, a knife or similar sharp instrument which is prohibited from carrying in a public place in accordance with § 352(a) of the Criminal Code or dangerous articles which may be placed in custody under the police law § 7.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1280	Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, which concerns the law on firearms and ammunition, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No. 9 June 1961 No. 1 for firearms and ammunition, etc. the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 33 shall be replaced by the following:He who intentionally or grossly negligently infringes the provisions laid down in or in accordance with this law shall be penalised by a fine or imprisonment of up to 6 months, unless the offence is subject to a more severe penalty.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1314	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1324	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1331	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Carsten Dybevig on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities 8-12, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that the Workers' Party's proposal No. 5, which is in the setting, has not been made. Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary legislative changes so that space listening can be used for the investigation of criminal offences related to the criminal law § 147a and 147b.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to work to ensure that the CTC, the United Nations Counter Terrorism Committee, is given human rights competence.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1399	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Criminal Act of 22 May 1902 no. 10 is amended as follows: point 12 of the first paragraph. 3(a) shall be replaced by the following:(a) among those referred to in this Act Chapters 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 17, 18, 20, 23, 24, 25, 26 or 33, or §§ 135, 141, 142, 144, 147 b, 169, 192 to 195, 197 to 199, 202, 203, 204 first paragraph, points (d), 222 to 225, 227 to 235, 238, 239, 242 to 245, 291, 292, 294 paragraphs; 2, 317, 326 to 328, 330 last paragraph, 338, 367 to 370, or 423, and at least it reaches paragraph 12 of the first paragraph. 4(a) shall be replaced by the following:(a) shall belong to those covered by this Act § 83, 88, 89, 90, 91, 91 a, 93, 94, 98 to 104 a, 110 to 132, 147 b, 148, 149, 150, 151 a, 152 first, cf. second paragraph, 152 a, 152 b, 153 first to fourth paragraphs, 154, 159, 160, 161, 169, 174 to 178, 182 to 185, 187, 189, 190, 192 to 195, 217, 220, 221, 222 to 225, 227 to 229, 231 to 235, 238, 239, 243, 256, 258, 266 to 269, 271, 276, 291, 292, 324, 325, 328, 415 or 423 or the Defence Secrets Act §§ 1, 2, 3 or 5.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1480	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1501	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1528	Here the President will draw attention to a correction. The sentence referred to in point (c) starting with ‘The penalty may not...’ shall be that of the first paragraph. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they too are opposed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1547	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they are going against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1592	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New § 147(b) shall be replaced by the following:Withholding up to 10 years, the person who procures or collects money or other economic resources shall be punished with the intention that the property shall finance, in whole or in part, infringements referred to in the criminal law § 148, 151(a), 151(b), first paragraph, cf. the third paragraph, § 152, second paragraph, § 152 a second paragraph, § 152 b, § 153, first to third paragraphs, § 153 a, § 154, § 223, second paragraph, § 224, § 225, first or second paragraph, § 231, cf. § 232, or § 233.In the same way, the person making money or other economic resources, or banking services or other financial services at his disposal, is penalised (a) a person or an undertaking committing or attempting to commit a crime as referred to in the first subparagraph, (b) an undertaking over which someone referred to in point (a) owns or has control, or (c) an undertaking or a person acting on behalf of or at the direction of someone referred to in points (a) or (b).
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1710	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'In the Criminal Procedures Act of 22 May 1981 No. 25 shall be amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 100a shall be replaced by the following:When the right of inquiry deals with a case under Sections 200a, 202c, 202e, second paragraph, 208a, 210a, 210c, 216a or 216b, the court shall immediately appoint the public defender of the suspect.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1779	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal concerns the introductory part of the first paragraph and reads as follows: 'In the Criminal Procedures Act of 22 May 1981 No. 25 is amended as follows:New Paragraph 202(d) of the first paragraph, introductory wording, shall be replaced by the following:If any person is suspected of violating or attempting to infringe the Criminal Code § 147(b), the chief or the deputy head of the Police Security Service, or a state attorney, may decide to bind property belonging to:»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1813	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'In the Criminal Procedures Act of 22 May 1981 No. 25 is amended as follows:New Paragraph 202(e) of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The prosecution authority shall bring the matter before the courts as soon as possible and not later than seven days after the decision has been taken in accordance with Paragraph 202(d), which shall decide whether the decision is to be maintained. Suspects and their defenders may also require that a court hearing be held to deal with the issue of bonding. The first paragraph of Section 149 of the Law of the Court of Justice shall apply mutatis mutandis. If the court upholds the decision, it shall at the same time fix a specified time limit for the binding. The first paragraph of Section 185 shall apply mutatis mutandis. Before the court takes the decision, the suspect and others to whom the case is addressed shall be notified and given the opportunity to comment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1883	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Financial Activities Act of 10 June 1988 No 40 shall be amended as follows: the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2-17 shall be replaced by the following:If a financial institution suspects that a transaction is linked to the proceeds of a criminal offence, or to matters covered by Section 147(b) of the Criminal Code, it shall undertake further investigations in order to confirm or disclaim the suspicion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1910	There are two different proposals. That is proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The President will first address proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, which assumes that the case under VI will be sent back to the Government. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 61 on the law on changes to the criminal law and to the criminal procedure law, etc. [[2001-2002]] [[Active measures against terrorism — Implementation of the UN Convention against Terrorism on 9 December 1999 and UN Security Council Resolution 1373 on 28 September 2001]] the legislative proposal VI on changes to the Foreign Affairs Act – sent back to the Government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1928	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1935	Knut Storberget – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1938	Since our return proposal has fallen, I would recommend our group to support the vote, and also proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e1995	The Labour Party supports the setting, while the Left Party opposes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2007	Proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Foreign Affairs Act of 24 June 1988 No 64 shall be amended as follows: the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 29 shall be replaced by the following:Rejection after points (a), (b), (c) and (e) of the first subparagraph shall not be decided if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the relation of the foreigner to the foreigner, it would be a disproportionate measure to the foreigner himself or to the immediate family members.§ 30, third paragraph shall be replaced by:Rejection under points (b) or (c) of the second subparagraph shall not be decided if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the relationship of the foreigner to the State, it would be a disproportionate measure to the foreigner itself or to the immediate family members.» The Labour Party will support the proposal and the President assumes that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left will oppose it. - That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2033	The President will now deal with proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Foreign Affairs Act of 24 June 1988 No Paragraph 64 is amended as follows:The present third paragraph becomes the fourth paragraph.The present fourth paragraph becomes the fifth paragraph and is replaced by the following:With the exception of cases referred to in the third paragraph, expulsion is not decided if, in view of the seriousness of the situation and the connection of the foreigner to the kingdom, it would be a disproportionate measure to the foreigner himself or to the nearest family members.The fifth to the seventh subparagraph becomes the sixth to the new eighth paragraph.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2072	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Police Act of 4 August 1995 No. 53 shall be amended as follows: point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 17; The first sentence shall be replaced by the following:5. sabotage and politically motivated violence or coercion, or infringements of Section 147(b) of the Criminal Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2119	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2131	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2139	During the debate, Mr Gjul presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2180	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2313	The President will now address the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, which concerns the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 173. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The penal code shall be amended as follows: the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 173 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2642	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e2652	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e4242	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e4252	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-12-lower.ana.ud883e4263	There is no record.
