ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e32	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Mette Korsrud For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ingrid I. Opedal For Uppland County: Reidun Gravedahl For Southern Tribute County: Ola Røtvej For Vestfold County: Dag Terje Andersen and Vidar Andersen For Eastfold County: Linn Laupsa Anette M. Solli, the requested alternate of the State of Akershus, is requested to be exempted from meeting under the permission of representative Julie Christiansen on 7 and 8 May, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The third alternate of the district of Akershus, Trine Lise Eriksen, is convened to meet during the period of leave.3. Stepe Lise Eriksen is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Julie Christiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e85	Stepe Lise Eriksen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e90	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e95	I propose Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e100	Anne Berit Andersen and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Anne Berit Andersen are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e105	I will, on behalf of Eli Sollied Överaas, Ola D. Glötvold and myself, promote a private proposal for equal support by assisted fertilization and adoption from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e110	The representative of Ursula Evje will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e114	On behalf of the representative Arne Sortevik and myself, I would first like to make a proposal to meet the financial burden imposed on ANSA by an increased number of foreign students. I would then like to make a proposal on behalf of the same to change the terms of the State Borrowing Fund for Education so that students who take vocational education in secondary school can apply for scholarships and student loans in the value-creating part of their education.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e121	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e136	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e145	Norway is a long-distance country with a small population. There would have been a lot of possible ways to decorate this society. Many countries with a small population have chosen to concentrate their housing in some areas. Others have chosen a relatively strong concentration within each part of the country or region. In Norway, we have chosen to preserve diversity — with a widespread settlement, with a diverse culture. This is Norway. It enriches us through its diversity. It creates closeness between the resources on which we build our wealth: fish, forest, hydropower and oil, and their exploitation. It gives us an identity, a root party, a culture anchored in rural and fishing waters. But it also has a price – with long transport routes and few people as the basis for local welfare services. Therefore, district policy is also a matter of will – political will – not least at a time when both the international cultural impact through various media, technology and globalisation has a strong centralising force. That is why we need political will to put an extra effort into the districts in order to secure the settlement there. I see that the Council of State in several newspaper articles has described district policy as something strange. That's right. In most countries, regional policy is a question of mitigating differences in living conditions — raising peripheral areas to a national welfare level. This is not the issue in Norway. Through our active district policy, we have created reasonably equivalent living conditions in all parts of the country. But we have a goal beyond that. We want the whole country to operate – asserting our sovereignty, exploiting resources and preserving diversity. But then district policy becomes also a question of what we want, what we're reaching for. Therefore, many of us react when the Government reduces the level of ambition. The government will have growth in all parts of the country. Everyone sees that there are changes in the individual built and in the individual municipality. However, the growth of Tromsø and Bodø can also reach a target at regional level, while the coast of North Norway is further thinned. That's why the Government's ambition becomes passive, and it's breaking up with what we've been through in the past. So the next question is, have we achieved these goals? Yes. And no. We have managed to maintain a more scattered settlement than perhaps any other country. But we haven't reached the targets. Northern Norway has had a net relocation of over 100,000 people over the past 50 years. When we take the birth figures, the country division has seen growth in the population, however. The development of Finnmark is serious, especially along the coast. Eight of the coastal municipalities in Finnmark have had a population decline of over 25 pst. since 1980 – Mashøy for the whole of 45 p.m. The challenges facing coastal communities in northern Norway and, in particular, Finland, are the main regional policy challenge facing Norway. And the challenge is not new. It's been there for decades. Therefore, we still need to consider how we can make regional policy instruments even more targeted. The Labour Party government set up an expert selection to go through the tools. We have also been positive about setting up a district commission to review the instruments. In 1990, I published a book addressing the challenges facing Northern Norway in particular. The title was: «From Problems to Opportunities». I am convinced that we need to focus much more on the opportunities that exist in the districts, and that policy needs to be designed to transform opportunities into profitable business. The Labour Party wants a strategic effort in the districts. We need to develop robust labour, housing and service regions where the population can find the most comprehensive range of services that meet their needs and needs. We need to build up under a profitable and competitive business in all parts of the country. Then we have to build on the advantages that exist in each region. We have to recognize that knowledge means more and more. Then we have to build a strong training offer in the districts. We need to strengthen research and, above all, the dissemination of research to the business community in the districts. We need to develop regional value creation environments where the network between the enterprises in the region and the enterprises outside and the network between enterprises, competences and authorities is strengthened. We need to reduce distance constraints by using new technologies, using the new technological possibilities to break down distance barriers. We need to have a conscious state localization policy where we're just using the possibilities of new technology. All new state activities must be excluded from Oslo, unless very specific conditions exist. We need a strong public welfare offer that is equivalent in all parts of the country. And we need to strengthen creativity, but also identity and belonging, through an active local cultural life. But such strategic action requires action. While we are humble in our search for instruments that bring us even closer to the goal, we must note that many of the instruments actually work well. We know that municipal nutrition funds contribute to new jobs in the districts. Therefore, it is serious when the Government removes all appropriations for such funds. We know that the fishing industry means a lot along the coast. Therefore, it is serious when the Government cuts the effort in marine research and cuts all appropriations for the marine sector development programme. We know that the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund means a great deal to industrial development in the districts. Therefore, it is serious – very serious – when the Government dramatically weakens SND. In these days, SND shall cut the crew with about 100 posts, probably in all counties. Investment grants for business start-ups in districts are no longer granted. In the past, a new enterprise could be stimulated to establish itself in Loppa. Now they do not receive an investment grant if they are not very innovative. In other words, the general incentive that was there is no longer present. This is wrong. That is why the Workers' Party criticises the government's district policy – not because everything was perfect under the Labour Party's rule, but because this government has made a severe deterioration in the district policy both in relation to the workers' party government and in relation to the previous Bondevik government. Last harvest, the Bondevik government cut the regional policy instruments by 350 million. kr in relation to the financial proposals of the Labour Party Government. Food policy instruments were proposed to be cut by a total of DKK 1.7 billion in effect. The newly elected central government member of Right Jens Petter Ekorenes called the SND cut a ‘catastrophe’. The rapporteur in Skjervøy – the only municipality with purely Christian People's Party plural – said that he would not give this policy a 'fuck of back coverage'. The right-wing rapporteur in Ballangen says: ‘What the government has done in district policy is frightening.’ Yes, even the State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport said: ‘The State budget... has too poor a district profile, and this has to do something about it. Prime Minister Bondevik may not be responsible for this.» The Labour Party does not claim to have all the answers in district policy. But this government obviously has the wrong answer. And it seems that more than the Workers' Party agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e203	When one sits and listens to Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, it seems that the representative has forgotten that it is not many months since he himself left the government offices, and that he has forgotten that he represents a party that has largely been sitting with the government. The problems of removal are not a problem that has arisen since 10 September, there has been a major problem in all the years the Workers' Party has been running. So rather than attacking the Government, you might want to have a little more self-critical light on whether your own policy has worked. Because we clearly agree on the objectives. We agree that it should be good to live and possible to live all over the country. We want to focus more on education, on research, on the possibility of exploiting resources and on further processing resources along the coast. We want to reduce distance constraints by investing in technology and transport, and not least we want to improve the framework conditions for businesses. Schjøtt-Pedersen quotes a number of representatives of the government parties. Has Schjøtt-Pedersen forgotten the rebellion against Jens Stoltenberg? Has he forgotten the rebellion against himself when he, as Minister of Finance, traveled around the country? This is not a matter of concern. The government wants to strengthen district policy, so it reduces taxes and improves the framework conditions. The government wants to strengthen district policy, which is why more attention is being paid to transport. The government wants to strengthen district policy, so efforts are being made to strengthen the regions. You want to bet on the possibilities. What is Schjøtt-Pedersen's answer is more of the policy that has not worked. When are we going to hear a self-critical word from the former Minister of Finance? When are we going to see that the Labour Party is also willing to rethink district policy, so that we can achieve the objectives that we obviously do not disagree too much about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e212	I didn't forget we were in government. I have not forgotten that we were in a government that proposed a budget for the 350 million districts. kr more than what this government did. I have not forgotten that we were in a government that proposed a commitment to industrial policy measures that triggered NOK 1.7 billion more than this government provided. The representative Sanner and this government seem to have forgotten is that fiscal measures do not work in relation to those who do not pay taxes. A company that is not established does not pay taxes, and may not pay taxes for many years to come. This is why, in general terms, general fiscal instruments are what stimulate districts. There is a need for special instruments, and because we have used special instruments, we have come further than other countries. I have the greatest humility in relation to the fact that we haven't made it completely clear. We haven't made it completely clear, not least in my own country. At the same time, I have a humility in relation to the fact that if we hadn't had the active district policy we've had in Norway, and there's been a fairly broad agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party, we would have been a lot further away from the goals. And that's what the problem is now. The problem is that in a situation where we see districts being challenged, the answer is not to cut appropriations on schemes that we know work. It is not that the various instruments through the SND are aimless and do not work. It is not the case that municipal food funds are aimless and not functioning. On the contrary, these instruments have proved to be effective. Therefore, it is extra serious that the government chooses to cut there to give 1.4 million. kr in tax bills on average to the hundreds richest in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e223	I record that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen is constantly talking about the tools that have worked and that are now being reduced. So my first question is: does the representative of Schjøtt-Pedersen really think that today we see that the means to which he is aiming have worked, when we experience the kind of relocation of not just people, but jobs from the districts that we see? It is interesting to see that if you take statistics and look at developments from 1980 until today, it is that for each year you have increased the transfer or used the tools that Schjøtt-Pedersen points to, the relocation from the districts has increased. The highest figure was then between 1989 and 1993, when the transfers, or the instruments pointed to by Schjøtt-Pedersen, were the highest in Norway’s history. I would like to challenge the representative, Mr Schjøtt- Pedersen, whether that is proof that the means to which he is aiming have worked. Then I react to another thing. It seems to me that Schjøtt-Pedersen is very concerned about the infrastructure and costs of long-distance transport. Then is my simple question to the representative: is it that the Workers' Party, whether in position or opposition, has used its power to prioritise infrastructure in the districts? Does it seem anywhere that the Workers' Party has been the party that has been at the forefront of building roads in the districts in a way that might have kept the jobs that have been there? Schjøtt-Pedersen also points to the 100,000 who have moved out in the last 50 years. Then I would like to ask the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen how many jobs have moved out in the same period because of the tax policy that has been in place in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e234	As far as transport is concerned, I find it interesting to mention that the Government of the Workers' Party is the only government, as far as I am aware in recent times, which has proposed a reduction in the tax on petrol and diesel. There's actually no other government that's done it. On the other hand, the Progress Party has agreed with the Right and Christian People's Party to remove the anti-fracture. Then you can discuss the level of fees. But removing the anti-fracture means that the price of petrol and diesel in some peripheral areas increases by up to 50 cents per cent. litre, the fuel oil increases by 60 øre per. liters, that the price of some fruit and vegetable varieties increases by $1.25 and that the price of milk increases by 20 cents. It's a cost increase. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has voted in favour of this. I'll just take it for information. So the representative raises the question: Have the regional policy instruments worked? Yeah, they've got it. They have not necessarily worked well enough, but if we had not used the regional policy instruments, if we had not had a clear district profile, for example. in Norwegian agricultural policy, and in addition to a conscious regional policy commitment through own instruments, the population situation in outlying areas would have been quite different from what we see today. Then we're going to be humble compared to not having achieved the goal as we've formulated it, that we're going to keep the main features of the housing pattern, in the sense that we see that it's a pretty significant decline, not least in my own home country. But the targets are not getting any closer by weakening the instruments. I have a great deal of respect for an industrial leader like Jens Petter Ekorenes. I assume that the Right also has respect for him, since you choose him into central government. He is one of those who have pointed out the powerful effects of this government's business and district policy. He called it a disaster. I have to say that I hope that the government parties also take over the signals that come from their own. It is not that the Labour Party has used the strongest words in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e243	It is interesting to discuss whether the regional policy instruments as such have worked, but it is also interesting to discuss how the general policy works. Now a part of district policy has a kind of role to play in mitigating the adverse effects of general policy, because it does not make it possible to take all the considerations that we say we should take. If a good rural policy is to be pursued, it is necessary to know how policies in different areas are taking place in the districts. For many years SV has been calling for us to investigate the impact of changes in general policy on regional policy. Today, we are promoting a proposal to this effect together with the Centre Party, and so far, the Workers' Party has not wanted to be involved in it. I want to challenge the Workers' Party on it. Had it not been a good idea to know how to convert, for example. in the transport sector, in the telecommunications sector, in industrial policy, by trade regimes – i.e. in all areas – is active in district policy? Where does the activity come from? Where do the workplaces come from? I would like to take a concrete example. If we look at energy policy, it is an area of untapped energy potential. There are good environmental policies, there are many jobs in the districts, and it is good district policies to exploit bioenergy. To date, the Labour Party has not been offensive and has been involved in creating a tax regime that would have both a good environmental impact and a good regional impact, because here are jobs and activities in the districts. Can the Labour Party now think of being part of this proposal, so we know what we do when we adopt changes in other policy areas, and how does it turn out in district policy as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e250	I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that what is happening in general policy, in many contexts, is probably as important to the development of the districts as what is happening in what we can call the special district policy. Let me give you an example of that. The government recently launched a request for a larger private entry into school. This is likely to lead to a weakening of the provision of services in the districts in relation to central areas, relative to, as a more privatised healthcare system would obviously be centralising, simply because of the increased number of private health services in central areas, it means that medical personnel are more likely to find a job where they initially want to localise, in a restricted market, and there will be fewer redundancies in the districts. That's why I think it's important to get this kind of challenge highlighted. We may have wanted to make adjustments that are necessary in themselves, for example. in the public sector, seen in each sector in isolation and not to a large extent in terms of the overall total impact of individual communities. Some communities have been hit relatively harder by it than others. We're trying to fix it through conversion measures, but I think we're going to be aware that these kind of changes, of course, also have some effects in individual communities. With regard to the issue of identifying the different regional and regional policy consequences, I believe that it is the result of the general obligation to investigate, that it is also addressed, but it is important to know the regional consequences of the decisions to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e257	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e261	The report by the Minister of Local Affairs warns of a clear and clear change of regional and regional policy in our country. The government will pursue a forward-looking and potential-oriented regional and regional policy. The objectives are clear and the measures are concrete. The creation of sustainable and profitable jobs shall be facilitated. Growth force shall be supported where it exists. The general framework conditions should be improved and the selective instruments targeted at innovation and entrepreneurship. It should be good to live and live all over the country. When growth in the regions is actively supported and on a broad basis, the pattern of housing will be more balanced in the long term than at present, where most of the growth comes in the Oslo region. It is important that, in the future, high-growth regions remain in all parts of the country. The role of cities as an engine in regional development shall not be underestimated. The truth level is high in the slogan ‘By and Land – Hand in Hand’. In addition to stimulating regional development, the Government will pay particular attention to peripheral and small communities. Welfare and service measures shall be ensured and citizens shall be assured that the public services are available. The title of the statement is ‘Growth — Worldwide’. This is far from empty words, but fine tones from an offensive government council. In the half-year that has passed since the change of government, I have recorded that the opposition on the Stortinget, with the Workers' Party at the head, in every debate of a regional and regional nature, has blackened the government's district policy and the situation in the districts. The harvest budget in terms of SND funds has been dramatised. We also heard that from previous speakers. It seems that from the opposition's point of view, it has been forgotten that the regional instruments were protected. In addition, the opposition has also ‘forgotten’ both the tax and tax reliefs, the generally improved framework conditions, and the fact that the Government provided a good budget to facilitate the downturn in interest rates. The grant policy of the Workers' Party shall now be replaced by an innovation policy. General and good framework conditions must be at the bottom. Economic policy must be designed to generally promote value creation and efficiency. The continuation of tax relief is important, and the Government is also investigating a better tax system. Norway has low unemployment and stable interest rates and price increases, while reducing taxes. The co-operation administration has good economic governance, which is a prerequisite for a good and active district policy. Norwegian business today competes in a global market. The framework conditions must be competitive in order to establish and operate industrial activities. This applies not least in the districts where there is a large element of industry and other competitive industries. Important instruments shall be deployed, including additional resources in North Norway. When the Council of State intends to strengthen the action zone, it means for Finmark that measures will be taken to make the area attractive to young people at the start-up stage. Increased settlement will be possible. The government will also further develop resource-based industries such as fisheries and aquaculture, agriculture, forestry and reindeer management. It is important that a government clearly specifies that growth can be created in both large and small communities and that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned. In order to achieve the objective of increased delegation and decentralisation, it is essential that appropriate instruments are put in place. This is done by the Government when it wants to decentralise the management of regional and regional policy instruments and when it wants to strengthen municipal autonomy and decentralise responsibilities. Similarly, the delocalisation of government tasks is a well-suited instrument. I'm glad the government so clearly specifies that the individual should be put in the center. It's as true as it's said in the statement: the state doesn't build the country. The State shall facilitate the development of individual people, businesses and institutions and the development of their capacity to create values for themselves and for society. The policies of former governments have not led to the large number of establishments in Norway. In addition, the policies of former governments have led to relocating and centralisation and to declining population numbers in different parts of the country. This negative development is now taking the consequence of the Government. Developing a comprehensive and offensive innovation policy. The development of a good culture of entrepreneurship, combined with a greater focus on research and development, are important sources of innovation and growth. The commitment to entrepreneurship in the education system is also worthy of mention. Young people will bear the future, and it will be essential to stimulate and facilitate the development of a good ‘founder’ spirit. The government will facilitate the efficient use of the resources we have, wherever in the country they exist, not least the human resources. I am pleased that the Government specifies that both young people and women will be able to make greater use of their resources. The same applies to immigrants, who should also be able to exploit their potential better than today. We know that in this field we have big and unsolved problems. The government is reshaping regional and regional policies. It is exciting when the municipal minister says that municipalities and counties will gain greater freedom and take greater responsibility for their development. It is reassuring that she also specifies that resources should be allocated to municipalities and counties. In my article, I have taken on board a number of instruments that the Government will use to achieve its goals in district policy. It surprises me that neither the Workers' Party nor the Center's Media Party, after the presentation, shared these ambitions. It is precisely the district policy that the Workers' Party has been leading for much of the last 20 years that makes us where we are now. Instead of supporting, Schjøtt-Pedersen and Enoxen were not late in expressing their criticism of the statement and the district policy of the Government. The government has set an ambitious target — with measures that are so realistic that the objectives can be achieved. I recorded in Schjøtt-Pedersen's posts that many of the objectives of the district policy seem to be common, but that we clearly have different perceptions of how we are going to achieve these goals. When the Labour Party's policy has so far failed to achieve the objectives of all these years with which the Workers' Party has been and has governed the country, it must, in my opinion, the Right and the Government's view, be most timely to change their course. It will be both the Right and the Cooperation Government. And the goal is growth across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e290	Representative Holmberg's former colleague in Ballangen, Northland, Right-President Einar Gabrielsen, said the following in the newspaper Nations on 30 April: ‘What the government has done in district policy is frightening.’ And he continued: ‘District policy is characterised by a short-term economic approach that can have disastrous consequences for the outskirts and for the country as a whole. I am very disappointed in what my own party has done in government so far.’ He includes the removal of fuel backlogs, the removal of municipal food funds, the centralisation of public enterprise, the lack of investment in road development, etc. Is this a black measurement? In the newspaper Varden on 4 May, the representative Holmberg concluded in a newspaper article: ‘There should be such an absolute reason for optimism’. Yes, then you might ask yourself, "Optimism for what then?" Is the response to our regional policy challenge to reduce the scope of action, such as cutting SND, defrosting, agricultural support cuts, removal of municipal food funds, regional centralisation and removal from the construction target? Is it this Right that should be used as a medicine for a forward-looking regional and regional policy? Is it the case that Holmberg's colleague is saying Gabrielsen in Ballangen is wrong when he goes out publicly and warns his own party? And does the representative of Holmberg believe that her parties in District Telemark are pleased with the regional and regional policy development and the signals contained in the new policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e314	I have also registered that there have been different statements in the press. I think it's always going to be like this in a society that's evolving, that some of the old, what hasn't worked, needs to change, and it needs to be replaced by new and better tools. That's what the government is now going to do in district policy – go from something that hasn't worked very well, to something that's going to get better. When you get a comment right after a statement, it is rather doubtful whether everyone has moved to read the statement in its entirety, thus getting all the elements and seeing the context. I would like to point out once again that moving away from the selective measures to the overall better framework conditions is a major change that will improve the price in the future. And when the government in the budget added DKK 12.4 billion in tax relief this year, it means lower taxes for those with lower wages, for people both in the districts and in the cities – city and country. An increase was made in the entry point for the top tax, the house tax was reduced, and the air passenger charge has been removed. There are also elements in the district policy of the Government. And not least, the conditions for business were greatly improved in the budget. The investment tax and the dividend tax were removed, and better depreciation rules and research opportunities were introduced. Investments in transport also increased and will be increased in the future. The government is now investigating a better tax system. Measures shall be targeted; they shall be eaten. It's essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e323	I think in all of it was a good post which was kept by the representative Holmberg from the Right. There was a lot where I could join in terms of sustainable, profitable jobs and generally better business conditions in District Norway – much that I thought was very sensible. However, what I want to address with the Right-Representative in a line is something that I see as an important district industry, namely tourism – which has been said little about. In the past, the Progress Party has tried to make proposals to liberalise, for example: use of motorised travel in the field. I am thinking of snowmobilesafari, which is a major tourist industry both in Sweden and in Finland. It means a lot to business as well. So it's got to be right, of all the parties, has put a brutal stop to it. Although this is a marginal part of the large regional policy context and in terms of instruments, I believe that these industries have an absolute impact on some smaller districts. The driving, for example: snowmobilesafari will mean a lot to attract tourists to Norway from abroad. I've talked to a lot of people who live in outlying municipalities, and they've said, "Let's get better conditions in this area, this means something to tourism, it'll mean a lot to our municipality in particular if we could get the rules liberalized in the field of outlying motorized traffic."
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e330	I agree with Mr Andersen that tourism is also an essential area of rural policy. And it's clearly an area that can be further developed and improved in many ways. With regard to the use of snowmobiles, I know very well that it has been discussed, it has been put on the agenda, not least in recent times. We are now in an experimental period of more than two to three years, when we are going to get back to the discussion and final results in relation to snowmobile driving. I agree that snowmobile driving can be assessed and seen as an industry in the districts. We have a lot of members who point that out. But I would also like to say that tourism to Norway is also essentially about experiencing silence. There doesn't have to be any contradiction. We have to be able to see if it is not possible to achieve a balanced arrangement in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e337	Exclusion and outsourcing of public enterprises has been the guiding principle of this government’s policy. In the field of transport, it was most clearly identified in the context of the State budget — among others. The Aviation Agency and the Road Administration shall be converted into a public limited liability company. We see the same direction, the same trend, in the health sector, in the school sector and in the municipal sector as such. Business economy is becoming more important and important, and social economy is becoming less important in government policy. What kind of consequences does this have for the districts? In other countries where this has been done, this has led to increased centralisation. The districts have become losers in this liberalisation policy, in the course set by the Government here. So my first question to Holmberg is: Where do you have in Europe, in the Western world, the good examples of this release leading to good results for the districts, for the small towns? The second question is: Will the Right agree with the proposal of the SV and the Central Party, where we propose that the impact on the districts be assessed before decisions are taken on how to address crucial policies in key areas of society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e344	I think it's a myth when you put district policy up against competition and think that if business economy is important, it'll ruin the districts. I don't think that's true at all. I believe that the whole prerequisite for a successful society and a successful development for both districts, cities and countries is that we have framework conditions that are so good that we can compete with others. Then we must actually have a government that creates a good economy, an economy that makes our businesses, not least in the districts and along the coast, with all the expenditure they have, so competitive and get so good that they can manage to get their products on the market. This is precisely why it is important that taxes and taxes are reduced. It benefits business and businesses. I think it's absolutely vital in the future that we get this done. I also believe that if we want the best for our country, we must give business opportunities – and all parties have a responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e351	So the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e354	This year's regional policy presentation was very general. Like many others, I am calling for more concrete clarification of what is in the statement. But anyway, I think that if one reads the statement two or three times and at best tries to look for signals that go in the direction of the Advance Party, then you find them. When it comes to profitable, commercial businesses, I recognize something. When it comes to attractive settlements, I know myself. More tasks for municipalities, strong growth regions where there is a basis, reduced taxes and taxes as a means of rural policy, that we in the districts should focus on what we are good at, increased investment in infrastructure and transport, a simplified agricultural policy, market building in Norway and entrepreneurship are, of course, key to what I initially think sounds like good music. I guess none of these signals are new in the regional policy debate, but if the Council of State and this government want this to be the basis for a new district policy, yes, then the Government will find support from the Progress Party. The most important thing now is to try to ensure that existing housing is maintained and that agriculture is not allowed to operate alone in rural areas. It is said very much in such presentations, and I took the liberty of going back to previous presentations. There are many ministers who have promised gold and green forests in relation to the districts, but we kind of have the status quo. The districts initially experience some sort of poverty. Then it is interesting to see the surveys carried out among people living in the districts, what they consider essential for them to thrive and to remain there, especially in view of the fact that the young person may be repatriated after completion of education. In fact, municipal services within primary tasks and several jobs are the highest. The two areas are pretty smooth. More money for agriculture does not turn out at all. It is of course interesting to see what the debate has been like when we look at the municipal service. Everyone has been very concerned that there is a shortage of resources in the municipalities. I will not take the debate on whether it is the individual governments that have made the wrong priority etc., but I would like to go into the 434 municipalities and look at who has ruled there, and take it as a starting point. For one who comes from the Nord-Trøndelag, where one sees the impact of district policy as a hundred percent – it's in a way a display window for those parties that have been called district parties for decades – it doesn't seem necessary to claim that the parties' policies have failed. Nord-Trøndelag is perhaps the state that is now increasingly struggling with that, and that is because the municipalities have made the wrong priorities. Because it is not the case that the municipality sector in Norway is bankrupt. The municipal sector has enormous values, while at the same time sitting on an enormous bureaucracy. I could give examples of examples from some municipalities, but I will not do that today, it will be wrong. My general message is: If we are to ensure the service in the municipalities, we must think anew. It's a little strange to me that not the Storting, or whatever government, wants to go in the direction that we're securing the economy of what's called the primary tasks. Why is it that all parties are strong opponents of price financing in the care of the elderly, for example.? Because that would have been the grip that had ensured funding for the care of the elderly in the municipalities. Why is it that all parties do not want the kind of funding that we have had in the hospitals to ensure the welfare tasks, and to ensure a level playing field wherever you live in the country? That's the only way you can do it, if that's how the majority really thinks it's the state that transfers too little money to the municipal sector, and that's why there's bad conditions. Why can't we then try to secure the transfer through state funding of these tasks? That's the only way to do it. The other goes on with more jobs. Not that I'm going to stand here and try to defend the government in some way when it comes to this with SND and building development resources, etc., but it's a little interesting to see that after six months it's now loudly yelling that this is dramatic, it's a disaster. There are some right-wing rapporteurs who have been out saying the same thing. But should we not also ask the question whether it has become a disaster? Is it so now that the hundreds of jobs in the SND that disappear are causing the districts so much loss that one gets increased relocation etc.? I don't believe it until I see it. And then there's someone who's once again trying to do this with a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Now we see the result, now it's evened out. So essentially, we're going to have a little bit of an increase, but that was the exact same result we had three years ago. And the Competition Authority is very clear: the type of cohesion across the districts does not turn out to be positive. If the Workers' Party and the Centre want to reduce costs, why can't they be involved in a real cut in fuel taxes, if that's what you really want? I really hope that's what the Council of State and the Government are also thinking about in that context, when it comes to taxes and taxes. Because I actually think that the greatest promise we can make for the districts now is to do something about the distances that create edge. Because it's the distances that create edge, and these distances are of course reinforced by the higher charges you have on transport, and the more miserable roads you have. So I think the best promise we can make for the districts now is a huge investment on the way and getting reduced costs of transportation. And this with SND and urban development funds – of course it is good and good for some – for some. The type of bud shooting, to some people in the districts, has not created either relocation or strong jobs. Of course, it has been good for some, but not for the districts and regions as a whole. What has to be done here if we really want to create new jobs is that we have to stop going in with 500,000 kroner. Then we have to spend a lot of money and strengthen the businesses that are already there, so that they can develop – that is, what you're good at. Then, of course, it is agricultural policy. The Progress Party is the only party that remains honest and firm in that we can no longer – and it does not want the industry itself – use the agricultural industry as a break in settlement and district policy. The industry doesn't want it. Although we have a cooperative and some organizations that shout and shout out loud that we're still going to do it, I don't think the industry wants it. It was an example here quite recently when more people in the industry wanted to merge and thus save millions of dollars. Now let's listen to the industry itself. Then I hope that's what the Government and the Council of State think about, when the statement says we're going to simplify agricultural policy. And I hope that a total transfer to agriculture of NOK 19.5 billion will also be included in the assessments that the Government will make on that side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e385	I believe that the government's regional policy statement has been so powerful that even the Progress Party has begun to worry that there is not enough district policy. When we dealt with the district announcement last year, the Progress Party felt that there was nothing negative about the centralisation trend and that they would ‘establish an active policy to facilitate growth and quality in the strata to which people move’. I can see that the government has done that. They have followed up the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. And then Sandberg stands here and almost argues that yes, it will be difficult, at least it will be in the North Throne Team. There are some problems that we haven't taken enough account of. I therefore want to challenge the Progress Party on proposal No. 1, which the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are promoting today. It's just that we need to know what we're doing. When the budget was discussed here in the house before Christmas, proposals were adopted such as: went to the transport sector, to leisure and to AS certification. Public activities shall be divided into a bit of bit-policy, and one hand shall not know what the other does. Then you don't even know what the sum will be at the end – and at least not how it will work for the districts, which Sandberg is obviously concerned about now. Could Sandberg envisage supporting this proposal, and at least know – and look in the eye – the consequences of the decisions taken? In this way, in future election campaigns, one could perhaps not see the big gap between the policies of the Progress Party in the Great Britain, what they think there about district policy, and all the crying balls we have to witness to elsewhere, in the local environments, where they cry for both the one and the other floor to be laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e396	Now I didn't go as far as Andersen's representative, but I'd like to do it in the line change now and say yes, I think this is a follow-up to the comments of the Progress Party. That's what I said in my article. When the Council of State in its statement points out that we should focus on strong growth regions and regional centres where there is a basis for growth, I agree with that. If you see Nord-Trundelag isolated, you have four–five regions with growth potential. I believe that Nord-Trøndelag should focus on these areas. This will lead to the fact that the circles around these regions may rock the settlement – instead of decomposing them, as they are today. That's my starting point. And I believe that. The representative Karin Andersen was involved in this campaign, and it's a little interesting, since I met the Vice President of SV, Inge Ryan, for many debates last year. During one of those debates I was confirmed by him that the District Policy of the Advance Party is the best of the world if one sees it isolated in the Nord-Trøndelag. And I'll take advantage of that. If we extend it to the whole country, the district policy of the Progress Party will be the best of the world on a larger scale. Still 17 counties are net suppliers to the big society. Two counties – maybe three – have negative deliveries, i.e. receives more than they deliver. The point is that at least for Nord-Trøndelag, it should be the way in which Inge Ryan supported me in the election campaign last year that our policy is the best to let the districts retain more of their own value creation. As regards proposal No: 1, of course, my answer is no. We cannot support a proposal that says that district policy – and the SV’s district policy – should in a way be the basis for all proposals adopted in the Stortinge in an economic context. This is what has been a fundamental mistake for 20–25 years – that district policy has been steered by economic policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e407	This year we've had something rare in North Norway. We've had ours. It's so rare that I can't remember the last time we had it. But I remember very well five years ago, when the snow record was set on April 30 – with almost two and a half metres of snow on flat ground. There are other climatic conditions in North Norway. There are distances – which the Progress Party has been occupied with. And it's a long coast, where we have huge resources in terms of fisheries and aquaculture. The districts represent value creation in this country. As regards the framework for economic development, this is more difficult in North Norway. Because despite the fact that we have not reached the targets, there is still widespread settlement in North Norway. It's long distances. Therefore, I am pleased that the government says so clearly that it will bet on North Norway. Additional resources shall continue to be provided. The Government is committed to strengthening the Nord-Troms and Finnmark Action Zone. Since the representative Sandberg did not mention this part of the country in his post, I would like to give him an opportunity to comment on what the Government has submitted. Is it still the case that the Progress Party will be on its old proposal to wind up these arrangements? The last thing you would do over time. In the past, proposals have been made to do so immediately. The government's regional policy statement, which includes North Norway, is important for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e420	The progress party is going to be in and bet on North Norway in the same way that we're going to bet on the rest of the country. But we have other tools, and that's what I tried to express in my main post. I feel, as I said, that in the statement that is now on the table, there are many signals that I can interpret to that effect that the instruments of the Progress Party should be used to a greater extent, and I am pleased about that. But it remains to be seen whether they are being put into action. As far as the action zone is concerned, the Progress Party will not change anything in our policy in that area. I don't think people who live in Troms or in Finnmark want us to do that either. I think that people in Troms and in Finnmark, on the same line as the rest of the country, want to be self-contained. We must give them an opportunity to do that by changing the framework conditions in general. Of course, I fully understand that the climatic conditions are different. That's why we're investing a lot of resources, both in relation to the coast, roads, racial protection, etc., because the distances and climatic conditions are the same as they are. But it's still like this, even though many governments have, over the past 25 years, made a move away from these areas, because you haven't had a process of processing the raw material. Processing has largely been moved to Denmark – 40 000–50 000 jobs have disappeared there. The point must be to get these jobs back. Then we have to distort the framework conditions for the type of business in Troms, in Finnmark and in the North – in the West for that matter – so that we can establish businesses and get back the jobs that we have pushed away from us through fiscal policy in the last 30 years. I think that must be an objective. I hope that both the Christian People's Party and the Government can agree on such a strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e429	The representative Per Sandberg, in my view, had an interesting post. He's busy with the possibilities that the districts provide. The same thing is the Center Party. But our starting point is that we have to give them the opportunity to exploit these possibilities even better, that is, strengthen their efforts. We believe that it is best for those who live in the districts, and not least for those who today experience pressure problems in the largest cities. I found it exciting that Per Sandberg is now studying reports that tell us that people are busy with work and community services to bus themselves in the districts. I want to challenge him in two areas. The only area is entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activity. Does Per Sandberg believe that the solution is tax-free, or can he see that municipal nutrition funds and SND can stimulate entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship? What does Per Sandberg think is best? The other area is broadband. According to an NHO report, the market can ensure broadband at 75 pst. of the country. Requesting government involvement in the remaining 25 pst. Cannot join progress party on proposal No. 2 on an own entry in the state budget for the development of broadband networks, thus giving the companies that Per Sandberg cares for opportunities for further operation and growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e440	The representative Melting Party Kleppa ruined my reply, to put it this way. For I had developed some quotes from the year 2000 when the Senter party had the minister, and I thought I would answer with something that was said in the presentation at the time. In the area of entrepreneurship, I tried to say something about it also in the case of SND and building development funds and those measures there, which I in some way regard as bud shooting. The Progress Party will be involved in ensuring that we draw out enough risk capital to grow in entrepreneurial businesses and entrepreneurship in the districts. But we're not doing that with the kind of bud shooting that's happened through the SND and the building development funds. We imagine a state fund with funds that can be used in that business. But then we don't talk about head shooting. Then we talk about funds of a magnitude that can really create jobs in the districts. That's what's necessary, that's to get locomotives either lying there and perhaps stopping today, or to set up new locomotives in the districts. We are fully aware that resources and raw materials are in the districts, and we must use them there. Then I am back to what I said about processing, and about getting back jobs that are lost. In the case of broadband – it is possible that I take a chance here now – I personally have no objections to the proposal. I see broadband expansion as a commitment to infrastructure in general, and there is public responsibility in line with electricity, road and telecommunications. Here, of course, I have to take a reservation as I have not received approval for it in my group. I don't know exactly what we've done in this area before, but I think it's natural that the Progress Party supports the development of broadband networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e449	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e452	First, I want to take up the proposals from the SV and the Center Party, which are distributed in the hall. The statement made by the Government has given one clear message: Move to the city! More clearly, it can hardly be said. This is probably very good right-wing policy, but district policy is not now. People don't move to town – think SV – because it's so awfully bad and hard to live in the village. We believe the main reason people move is that they get a thousand signals every day that future is somewhere else, and that they have to get there as soon as possible. What do people think about when they're going to establish themselves? They're thinking, for example. on: Are there good schools for my children where I'm going to live? Is that a cultural offer there? Are those cheap kindergartens? Is there any offer for the youth? Such things think about when to choose where to live or where to move. Then it is important that, with our policies, all policies, we do not signal that we do not intend to invest widely across Norway. There was an interpellation debate in Stortinget for approx. A month ago, when the Prime Minister was present, he felt that there was a need for both a stronger and a more modern district policy than we have today. I have to say that the statement came as a real belly pad after that. It wasn't just that you didn't have any new policies, but just recycled old right-wing policies to go by, you were also willing to rage the old tools before you got any new ones in place. It disappoints SV enormously. We have even seen in the paper that the use of the regional policy instruments in the SIVA is allowed to move district jobs out of Norway. There's an SV strongly disagreed with. The government is going for more market management. More market governance means more centralisation, and more centralisation is contrary to one of the main objectives of the Government's maritime policy, with which SV agrees, namely that people should be allowed to choose where they want to live, and that it is a political responsibility to facilitate it. It is actually in the setting of the district message from last spring as a special comment from SV. Now it is that, in general, politics makes it expensive and difficult to repair the damage so that people can make the real choices based on their own needs and priorities. The government has changed the settlement target strongly. It has been viewed in part as a symbol policy, but I believe that when the Government now launches that there should be balanced development in all parts of the country, there is no symbol. I think it's real policy, which the government intends to implement. The government will strengthen those who are strong. This is contrary to SV's policy. SV wants to pursue a policy of solidarity, which also supports the weak, whether they are individuals, regions or industries. District policy is not about bringing people together in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim or Stavanger. It's ridiculous to call it district policy. Østerdalen, Lierne and Karasjok are districts. They need and benefit from good cities and regions, but they cannot survive on it, especially when all policies otherwise make it more difficult to be there. The government says that when they look at direct business support, they will give more support to the companies that are doing well. They will provide tax relief both to persons and to businesses. Indeed, there is support for activities that are already in place, while SV policies are aimed at supporting companies to stand up, with advice and risk loans. There is greater risk in the districts, and there are fewer providers of loans to small entrepreneurs. We believe that this is a policy that is far more innovative and innovative than giving large tax credits to companies that are already doing well. Entrepreneurship is good. It's a lot of undissolved talents and ideas around the country. SV believes that there must be a broad commitment in the school. We will also draw attention to the immigrant population. I think it would be wise to bet on them too. Many of them have a completely different culture of starting their own businesses, and should be helped because they have other problems in the labour market. Innovation is not, in the SV's opinion, a tax exemption on dividends on shares, as the Government seems to believe. There is no empirical evidence of the relationship between the level of taxation and economic development. On the contrary, research and development funding should be provided and all the Petter Smarts that will rise and stand up should be supported, while the strong marine environments have a good economy, in the SV's view, should be more effective. SV has made proposals to assess how policy-making in different areas also works on district policy. Now you kind of get the effect of it -- I don't think it was Christmas Eve on the bitch, but you look like you didn't quite know how it went into the districts. And that's a problem. When transport policy changes, NSB slims, Telenor becomes AS, and you give tax relief to the richest, as we know also lumps together in some places, we see that all of this works both on our freedom of choice and on how the policy turns out as a whole. For example, can my business idea work out in a place without broadband? In order for this to be economically viable throughout the country, the state needs to integrate and ensure that the profitable business ideas that exist around the country can come up and stand, and that the infrastructure is in place, such as: broadband. I also don't think that schools around Norway will be good enough if they don't connect to a broadband network, which will provide equal opportunities for school and education across the country. It must not only be guaranteed equal access, but also equal price. The bit of bit policy that we are now pursuing, where we do not see the whole of the policy, has been very harmful. It becomes so that not only should each building be profitable separately, but each post office, each telephone booth and every person should be clearly profitable separately. None of the units seem to be responsible for the whole anymore, except for their sea and their own business. In fact, state-run businesses are just as bad. It seems they're not talking to each other, and they're being asked to compete instead of cooperating, and then the solution won't be for the benefit of the districts. School is the most important processor of our greatest and most important value: children and young people. There is too little contact between school and business, says the Council of State. Yes and amen, says SV. The school is hungry and has to pinch on small amounts of money, which means that the school has now had to choose to stop travelling on company visits; the bus ticket is too expensive. The students may be of farms two to three times during ten years of schooling, and that's bad. If you want to fix this, you have to make sure that the schools can afford to go out and visit both businesses and institutions, whether it be culture or, for example, culture. old-age homes in the community. SV has proposed that each student should have DKK 1000 per student. To get out of the school, just to achieve some of what the government now says is important, namely that students get close contact, good contact, with business during their schooling. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about bioenergy, because bioenergy also mentions the Council of State, without getting any more concrete out of it. Bioenergy is a major inland resource and an important environmentally friendly energy source. In this area, it would have been very important to get a lot of projects going, because it means both energy supply, which many people think you need, and that means badly needed environmentally friendly jobs in districts. This is not only about grants to get such things going and an incentive to use in public activities, but it is about setting up a tax regime that allows one to be competitive by being environmentally friendly in the energy sector as well. There too, the Government could contribute more to achieving both good environmental policies and good district policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e490	Karin Andersen has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e495	The representative, Inge Ryan, recently invited us to an interpellation debate here in the Stortinget on district policy. I understood that he expressed a strong desire that a district commission be set down where it would be important to have a fundamental analysis of the causes of the centralisation we have seen in our society over a long period of time. I also understand that the representative Ryan wanted new offensive measures to promote a district policy to give optimism in the regions of the country that experience relocation and stagnation. He mentioned in this connection an example of areas that have had a very negative development. The Prime Minister commended SV and Ryan for the initiative to set down a commission, and many of us perceive the Prime Minister so that he would probably take an initiative to have a political commission set down. The Prime Minister actually stated that he would see the matter without prejudice. In the last week, another member of the Government presented his thoughts on behalf of the same government, the Bondevik II Government, on how district and regional policy should look in time. There are many words, little action and no money for action. I would like to challenge the representative, Andersen, to comment on the context of the government's regional and regional policies in the context of the circumstances I have mentioned, and also in the context of the swallowing of district and regional policy proposed by the Government in its 2002 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e507	I think it was quite clear from my intervention that the disappointment in SV has been great since the district and regional policy statement was presented. We realized that the Prime Minister, as head of the Government, not only took a certain maritime critique, but he also saw that there was a need here to do new things. And we realized that there was an increased effort on the territory we were going to see. When the presentation came, we perceived it this way, as I said in my post, that what was presented, in so far as it was honest Right-wing policy, but district policy was not. As a result, if we continue this line, we will have removed some of the important regional policy instruments that we know will have positive effects before new instruments are put in place. SV agrees that many new thoughts about district policy are needed. We believe that there are measures that we have not tried. We believe, among other things: also that it is very important and absolutely necessary to investigate the impact of regional policy on major policy areas, in order to know whether we take sufficient account of the rural areas when transferring in these areas. And there is one large area that I think everyone is aware of – I hope so – and that is the differentiated employer fee that, as it is, is approved only until 2003, because then it will have to be notified in the EU. That means that we can get quite strict restrictions and limitations on it other than what we have had today. All this citizen in order for us to have such a commission to be reduced quickly, and that it must be worked thoroughly. But we have to say that we find no correlation between Prime Minister Bondevik's positive starting point in the interpellation debate and the statement that the Government made just a few weeks later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e514	A striking feature of SV’s Karin Andersen’s post is the fear of high-growth regions, the fear of regions with regional centres serving as an engine for development across the region. SV seems totally suspended in maintaining partly artificial regional boundaries, or what they call in a proposal ‘the housing pattern’ and ‘equal living conditions throughout the country’. In the SV's view, the country should only be built with new, large-scale government appropriations and a policy of life-saving differences. After all, the government is taking in the idea that time is overdue to facilitate a new policy. SV's answer is just a suggestion. They don't dare! They send even the strongest signals of continued centralisation and deportation. In all parts of the country, we find growth-intensive regions with faith in themselves, with strong environments of competence and business, and by cultivating their own advantage and developing what is already good at locally, many regions will have very good prospects for the future. And when the government now focuses on prioritising innovation, this can be a good policy. Growing regional centres also have many of the qualities sought by an increasingly urban population. But the proximity to the quality of life found easier under more rural conditions is, of course, the strength of a policy where we focus more on engines. My questions are simple: why is SV so terrified to say that we need to focus more on our own growth power? Why is SV so afraid of the competitive advantage you actually have in District Norway? And why is the answer always just new investigations and new government appropriations – a policy that weakens what is good and that affects the lack of its own growth power? SV stands for a policy that is a status quo tyranny, where you are terrified of changing course in case it has an effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e525	No, SV is not afraid of change. On the contrary, we had an interpellation debate about this here in Stortinget less than a month ago, where we got at least a positive answer, that the government wanted a better and stronger district policy, and that they needed some new answers. That it was just words is sad. It gets those who have promised too much, clean up the water, but SV has to stand for what we mean. So last spring we wrote what the government is now saying, that people have to live where they want, but it's a political responsibility to make that choice possible. First of all, if you want to do so, you need to know how the policy we pursue in different areas affects people's choices. Is it so that the rounds we're doing make it more expensive and difficult to live in the districts than in the city, SV doesn't think it's a good effect. We want a policy that allows people to make those choices. If you, for example, leads a policy towards business that gives the most tax relief to the companies that are doing well, and least help to those who want to get up and up, we need to look at the effects of it. How does it work, for example? eliminates the double taxation of dividends on shares? Where's the money gone? They don't disappear into the districts, they disappear into the center. There does not appear to be a good political distribution profile, either between persons or between parts of the country. SV is not afraid of high-growth regional centres. But that's not what the government has proposed. The government has proposed a balanced population growth in the parts of the country. That means that we who live in Hedmark should be very happy if the growth comes in Oslo. I have to say that people up in the Østerdalen are not particularly satisfied with that. And we who live down on the Finnskogen also think it's a grotesque help to get from this government in relation to the choice they say they're going to give us, that we're going to be allowed to live wherever we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e534	It was a very little optimistic Karin Andersen from SV who almost rolled all over the presentation, that the message in the presentation was: Move to the city! I understand that the representative from SV is disappointed. But SV has said that it is the income system, agriculture and more transfers that are to be the rescue of District Norway. Now we know that in many district municipalities, especially in the least, the money that is transferred extra through the income system has been used to create very many jobs in the municipal sector. Instead, we would have jobs in the private, productive and value-creating sector. But there's a weakness in the system. If a municipality gets a lot of money, they use the money to make a lot of municipal and – let's say – unproductive jobs. It should take SV inwards. SV is traditionally a lot that stands for high taxes and taxes. And one of the problems of establishing districts is precisely the level of taxes and taxes. It is such that local businesses retain little of what they themselves serve for reinvestment. The SV’s model is that funds should be returned via subsidies, through state schemes, rather than that enterprises located in districts should be able to retain more of their own values in order to reinvest in their own industry. Would it not be beneficial, even in the SV's view, for us to have a somewhat stronger business environment, which could itself reinvest in the districts and thus create budding, to increase the number of jobs, rather than – as today – that all this should be done by state transfers and appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e547	In SV we are not pessimistic at all. We're optimistic. That is why we have put such a great deal of emphasis on district policy because we believe that there are opportunities. The problem is that the Government and the Advance Party will not make use of these possibilities. The main field of activity of the SV in order to contribute to business development beyond the whole country is our strong commitment to research and education. We've been working on that for many years, because the people of this country are the most important resource. But it's clear that it's even more important in the countryside where there are fewer people, that you really have a good school that makes all the talents and all the creativity come to justice. The second area of activity is research, because much needs to be done, because Norway is low in this area. We have some research objectives that we've brought with us the Stortinget, but we know that research efforts in companies in Norway are far too small, so that development and innovation are not good enough. What SV wanted in this regard is to provide grants for research and not a tax incentive, as the Progress Party and the Government wanted. It's precisely from that idea that much of this has to be done also in companies that don't necessarily have the ability to tax and that don't make so much money. So our policy is to help those companies that are not in a good performance phase. We want to provide more help for start-up, business consulting and research and development so that you can get up and stand. At the moment you make a lot of money, SV believes – because we have a fair distribution profile – that you have to divide the profits with other companies that need funds to get up and stand up. That way we think a lot more ideas will come up and stand, instead of mowing the money into areas where you have a lot of money from before, and where the wheels go around their sails. We don't see it as our most important task to contribute to the increase in wealth even more there than what they do to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e556	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e559	Even if the opposition here in the United Kingdom is trying to make it sound different, the headline of today's debate is actually growth in the whole country. Let it be clear: the co-operation regime will strengthen regional policy. It will ‘ensure the settlement, value creation and viable communities throughout the country’. Statistics can be interesting reading. In the last 20 years, the movement has been in strig currents from north to south, from outskirts to central strokes, and from towns to cities. The Labour Party has steered and steered most of this period, and I honestly think it is reasonable especially when representatives from this party are trying to present it in such a way – not least in the media – that the current government after half a year in position dragged the carpet away from district and regional policy. We don't, on the contrary. First of all, we will continue to use the vast majority of instruments used by previous governments. They obviously don't work well enough, but we don't remove them. There are strong forces that pulled in the centralizing direction. Not least the demography tells us that maintaining the population in districts and regions is a major challenge, regardless of who is in government. When the population returns in many peripheral municipalities, it's not just because of relocation, but because many district municipalities actually have a birth defect. This has a lot to say for kindergarten, for school, for culture and for care. Demography is, in fact, survival debate No. 1 in the district of Norway, as it is in the regions of Europe. In addition to what all governments have done before, this government is also trying new ways. When the relocation has been a fact year after year – i.e. under the Labour Party regime – it is actually time for new ideas, with alternative paths and a different policy. The cooperation management thinks new and takes care of what it believes is positive about the old. But we want greater freedom for the municipalities to shape their own future. That's our vision. The government will help to trigger more of the huge potential of value creation that is currently untapped, especially in District Norway. How? Norway is a country where many people have a Petter Smart talent. However, too few projects come from the idea of production in Norway, and Norwegian innovations are still being put into production abroad. The regional and regional policy instruments must therefore be targeted specifically at entrepreneurs. I want to make SV aware that it is in the distribution. An ECON report claims that in 20 years it will be 80 pst. of the jobs to find in enterprises that are not yet started. Then it's not acceptable when Norway gets jumbo space as a founding nation. The primary industries of agriculture, forestry, tourism, aquaculture and fisheries — the silver of the sea — exist in the districts and, to the extent, black gold, oil. We need to give business a framework so that the districts can make Norway richer, because the money stream goes from the districts to the central districts. That is what needs to be stopped to some extent. An important barrier to growth and development in rural areas is a lack of infrastructure, both for broadband and for roads. It is therefore very important that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has stressed that rural policy will be among the most important priorities of the next national transport plan. Making the shortest possible way for our export industry to the European market is pure reason and will increase the ability of district industries to compete internationally. The co-operation administration also provides for the smallest communities on the outer island. Where transport services, infrastructure and public services cannot be based on the pay criterion, the services shall be secured by the large community. We will stress that local communities experiencing stagnation and population reduction should nevertheless be guaranteed safe, good and equivalent services. Throughout the country, people should be able to feel the security of basic services in education, health, care osb. The cooperation management will protect the main features of the build pattern. Yes, the government goes so far as to say that all parts of the country are going to have population growth. This must be more than a "verification". There's a need for labour immigration to do that, I think. And as the first government with success in the field, the Bondevik II government is moving government tasks and jobs from Oslo to districts. Many previous governments have said that they want such a policy, but no one has done so before Bondevik II. Governments will also contribute through government localisation policies to the development of regional growth centres throughout the country. The government has not forgotten edges and small communities with a problematic industrial structure. Such places shall be secure services that do well to bow there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e583	The Christian People’s Party boasted openly a few years ago that the government in which they were in was ‘in the process of implementing the largest regional policy effort in the 90s’. The Christian People's Party was on the right course in several areas. The previous Bondevik government proposed to strengthen municipal food funds, increase efforts at regional coordination, provide more support for the work on the water quality of businesses, and bet on freight dithering on petrol and vegetables. In all of these areas, the Bondevik II government is now pursuing a different policy. A remote municipal food fund, a cut-off in all support for regional coordination, supported by the work on the water quality of businesses is gone, and this with the defrosting of freight was eliminated from the budget. And as if this wasn't enough: it was cut 350 million. In the field of regional policy, the impact of industrial policy has been reduced by DKK 1.7 billion. The list could have been longer. The reactions of many local and state politicians in the Christian People's Party have been very strong. My question to Apelthun Seele's representative will therefore be: Is the Christian People's Party satisfied with the shift in line that has occurred in the party's district policy for the past six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e592	There's a debate we've had before that now comes up again, that's the budget debate we had in the fall. Now there might be a discussion about what was tricked, what was working, and what doesn't seem good for the cuts that were done. Then I would like to remind the representative Sandal that the previous government also made cuts that were significant. When the Stoltenberg government budget was presented, there was a proposal for a cut of 300 million. kr to SND. I think back as far as the revised budget in 2000 – at these times when the revised budget is presented, we can well remember it – and then cut the same Stoltenberg government 300 million. kr to SND. This has been done by several governments to get a totality in the budget. But we now have a regional and regional policy package for debate. I'm actually happy with a lot of what's being done both by old people and by new people in district policy. I want to repeat, because I think it's too little, what's actually going to happen. I can't name everything, because there's a lot of stuff in this distribution, but it says that we have to have a good framework for business, it says that we need to establish knowledge and research parks, business gardens and incubators, incubators – i.e. these Petter Smarts should get help. It says that we should feed the business rights of the tools and the apparatus around the areas where the private market is not functioning satisfactorily. It's Christian People's Party policy. We want to do this. We are to bet on entrepreneurship in the challenge society, and we are to further develop resource-based industries such as fisheries, aquaculture, agriculture, forestry and reindeer management. These things that the Christian People's Party has been busy about, we're going to bet on. And then I'm going to add one last thing, really good transport solutions. And those who have followed and seen the revised budget today, see that a now also have to be able to use ferries subsidians to solve road projects, and I have, and I believe several of us, fought for a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e601	One becomes almost a little confused when one listens to the last line change. The replicator Sandal expresses that here is the disaster and a whole new course, as close as 180 degrees conversion in district policy, while the representative Apelthun Seele in his post expresses that there are almost no changes that have happened. Whoever's trying to interpret what's in the paper itself is getting a little frustrated. But my challenge to Apelthun's representative Seele is on what she was into at the very end of her post, and this is about transportation. Now, in order to extract the growth potential that is out in the districts – and the representative pointed to the problem quite correctly – we need to cut the distance to the market. At least it's not that the Christian People's Party can in a way boast that they've gone in the rush to increase the means of transportation. Now, in some regions, there is an E6 trasé where you can drive at an average speed of 40–50 km/h. We have highways that are in such a wretched constitution that when you're going out with the goods, the trails have to stop when they meet each other. This prevents traffic. Not only do you have a terrible road standard, but the speed of getting the goods out is such a significant negative factor for business that it represents an incredible amount of millions of dollars. And then is my challenge to Apelthun's representative Seal: Is it really such that the Christian People's Party will be united with the Advance Party and get the real promise in the transport sector that is necessary, and that we need to save what is out of jobs in the districts, and to create new jobs by taking advantage of the opportunities that we actually have along the coast and in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e609	One gets confused here. It may also have something to do with the rhetoric of this pulpit. What is certain is that one takes up and continues to carry on the vast majority of the regional policy tools that have been used in this country. In addition, an attempt is made to find new, general tools to achieve the objectives that have been common to all in this room, i.e. the use of the whole country. And then, of course, new days give rise to new possibilities. When it comes to the issue of the regional investment in the national transport plan, the Christian People's Party and I are, of course, very pleased with what it says. It goes without saying that the transportation arrangements we have in Norway are not good enough. First of all, I want to focus on the difficult situation in which industry in the districts is – I know Coast Norway best – with a view to getting the goods to the major shipping years. The main pier, which is partly built, but which should have been further built in the West, is called the Coastal Road. It will be able to ease the burden on the Austland and the transport across the mountain, and one will reach the markets with e.g. Fish, which is an important part of the new and growing industry in the West, a whole day before you do it today. It will be beneficial for the industries, it will be beneficial for the districts, and I think it will mean that we can increase production and the economic development that is in the West, and then people will also live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e616	I am delighted to know many KrF politicians who are engaged in local politics. They're both good people and nice people, and not least they act very sensibly. The Christian People’s Party, I see, is characterized by the fact that they have very intelligent politicians. But as far as district policy is concerned, I have actually felt that they have behaved somewhat less sensibly from being sensible in some contexts, because they are somewhat confused with the policies that are being pursued. At the same time, we are told by the representative of Sandberg today that the statement before us is a step towards the policy of the Progress Party. So my question to Apelthun Seele is as follows: Is it convenient to be embraced on the one hand by the Progress Party in District Policy, while the competent, mindful local politicians around the country are somewhat turbulent over the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e623	I'm very happy that we can get that inscription from SV that we're a mindful party, and we like to take the goal of continuing to be it as well. When many are deranged, even mindful people are dismayed, it is important – and it has my penance – that one reads this statement, because it provides a very wide range of tools, which should be used targeted if needed, and generally where one can manage with a slightly better framework. I thought that this distribution was good, and I hope that we can get it to be properly and properly distributed to all of our intelligent representatives in the districts. Yeah, who's gonna hug us? I hope that might be a little bit different. In addition, I would say that most parties have good elements in their district policy, and if anyone is happy that we want to build roads, that's okay enough, even if it's the Progress Party – that's actually very good. If anyone is happy that we want to eat the right tool and the appliance around the areas where the private market is not working satisfactorily, I am happy to support it here as well. What I want to say about this is that this arrangement has a very wide range in which several parties can recognize themselves, and if SV reads it carefully, they will also be familiar with many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e632	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e635	Few countries have more reason to pursue active district policies than Norway. Very much of our business life and growth opportunities are linked to the exploitation of natural resources that require the maintenance of a scattered housing pattern. It is the jack – not the trawler – that is used in advertising for the Norwegian fishing industry. It is the fruit trees in Hardanger, it is the coastal fleet and the fishing farms in Lofoten and it is Nordkap that is used in the marketing of Norway as a destination. It is a decentralised small scale Norwegian agriculture that has been our main guarantor of extensive animal diseases, as we have seen in other countries. It is fisheries, aquaculture, energy and maritime sectors that have been designated as our leading growth industries. In addition, IT-based businesses have significant growth potential. You shouldn't travel much around this country to see the positive in the pattern of living that we have: small communities with an active and good business life, a rich cultural life, close social ties, where people care about their neighbors, good growing-up conditions and not least well-developed care for the elderly. At all, Building-Norway and District-Norway are good to live in, and we also see in housing surveys that people actually want to live in District-Norway. So when a large majority of people on the Stortinget have come together that the goal is still to maintain the main features of the housing pattern and people want to live in District Norway, you might ask, why haven't we done this? That's good reason to ask, because it's a very ambitious goal to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. Centralisation has continued steadily for decades, driven by changing industrial structures, higher education levels and technological innovations. And we all have to admit that we haven't been able to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. In the current situation, we can go two ways: we can agree to maintain the objective and strengthen the use of tools in order to achieve the goals we have set ourselves, or on the other hand, we can do what the Government is now doing, risking the goal and setting us a new goal that does not mean that the main features of the housing pattern should be maintained, but that it should facilitate growth in all parts of the country. In an interview with Fiskeribladet on 3 May, the Minister of Local Affairs said: ‘District policy is strange. In other countries, attention is more focused on regions and regional policies. I believe that such an approach will be fruitful in Norway as well.’ She hardly used my northern Norwegian dialect, but at least that's what it says on the press. To the Political Quarter on 30 April, the Minister of State says: ‘We are therefore going to redefine what has been the old housing goal, namely that we should have spread housing across the country, or maintain the housing pattern in general as it is today. We believe that it is unrealistic in the future to be able to achieve that." This is an excellently clear speech by the Minister of State. So the government does not intend to use new tools in district policy to maintain the housing pattern that we have. The government intends to make a clear change in the objective of the housing pattern and will, as stated in the statement, ‘strengthen the growth force where it already exists’. This contrasts with the objective set by the first government of Bondevik: securing the main features of the housing pattern was an important objective, countering increasing centralisation and gradually turning the flow of relocation, and the individual municipality should be able to assume as a goal for long-term planning that the population should be maintained. It was, in fact, such an ambitious objective that the three centre parties were united in 1997, that it was clear that it required quite powerful instruments to achieve it. And it was also the basis for the strong escalation of district policy that was made in the time of the central government. So, of course, cheap points can be made from the fact that the central government does not have the power to achieve its goal. No, we didn't. Of course, I could make an equally cheap point that the removal was actually slowed down in that period, and that the undersigned at least got only one year as a municipal minister to implement it. But such a debate and the kind of cheap points do not actually serve those who have invested money in jobs and homes around the many communities, and who now do not know what their future will be. It does not serve these people either that Ivar Kristiansen at the Right National Meeting is given a pamphlet to claim that Enoxsen and Schjøtt-Pedersen are incompetent to advise the Government on regional policy issues. In fact, I have not asked to be an adviser to this government. My job is to make sure that the Center Party gets the most out of its policy in this room. The government has very many competent advisers in the Ministry of Local Affairs, and many of them are in the diplomatic lodge today. So the problem is, unfortunately, that the government will not listen to these counselors. There have been quite different objectives: fewer and larger farms, fewer and larger fishing vessels, fewer and larger municipalities, and the growth force will be strengthened where it already exists in cities. So the sum of this is that you're doing the most dramatic redrawing of the Norway map and the housing pattern ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e671	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e674	There is a lot of positive in the housing pattern we have, and we have good local environments, said the representative, Enoxsen. The Labour Party agrees. But it has not always been such that the Workers' Party has been praised for its district policy by the Center Party. It is now two years since we last had our own statement on regional and regional policy here in the United Kingdom. Last year, as we know, we had a big message about the same thing. But the time that now went centre party leader Enoxsen very high on the track and criticized the Workers' Party. And the representative, Kleppa, said among other things: in the debate at the time that the difference between the present working party statement and the presentation of the central government was primarily the level of ambition. The working party had lowered the ambition level of District Norway relative to the central government. This year, opinions are even stronger from the Center Party. Now we are talking about pure Right-wing policy, an even more deportation policy, a policy that will provide a historic centralisation. It must mean, then, that the level of ambition is now at a historic low, according to the Center Party. In the setting of last year's big message, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party stood together in almost the entire setting, while the Right and Advance Party were united on a completely different district policy. Therefore, my question to the representative, Mr Enoksen, is: what really happened to the representative's former cooperation parties in the central government? And I would also like to ask: how does the former Minister of Local and Regional Affairs now experience the Christian People's Party and the Left's reverse operation here in this statement and in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e688	On the way forward I tried desperately to find a quote from the most read book in order to describe the feeling I have in relation to what has happened. It wasn't that easy on the few meters from my place and up here. But at least I'm going to give Jan Petersen right in one thing: the biggest difference between this government and the previous one is that the Center Party is replaced with the Right. What this government stands for today in all the areas I was in is pure Right-wing policy. And it is alarming that the Christian People's Party – although not the largest party in the Government – has accepted such a shift in regional policy as has been the case. Now what I'm saying doesn't mean some sort of boast of the Labour Party's district policy. When the Labour Party now criticises the cuts in regional policy instruments, it is important to be aware that we are now actually back to the level of these instruments before the central government took over in 1997. So we're back to the level that the Workers' Party thought was acceptable. On the other hand, of course, I have never hidden the fact that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are much closer to each other in matters of regional policy than what the Centre Party and the Right are doing. This is clearly demonstrated by this presentation and by the shift in the pace of policy that has taken place since the government change. The eye-catching is not what the Right does – this is pure Right Policy. In all the years I've been on the Storting, we've seen that Right wants such a development as this. So what's remarkable is that you've managed to get the Christian People's Party and the Left on the load. I think that's a shame. It is the people of District Norway who over time get to pay the price for this – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e699	The most prominent thing about the introduction to the Center Party's Odd Roger Enoxen is the almost deafening pessimism and the defensive attitude towards what growth power, which he himself so vividly describes, is in the districts. Norwegian municipalities, whether close to or away from so-called central struts, have a responsibility not only for service production and other primary tasks, but also for their own development. The basis for growth and development is local. Municipalities with high growth business – and many of them – are characterised by a entrepreneurial culture, cooperation and capacity for innovation, while being integrated and operating as motors in larger regional business environments. Municipalities concerned with their own future must themselves address these challenges and then, together with local business, find out what can make the municipality and region more entrepreneurial, what regional alliances and structures should be built, and how innovation and entrepreneurship can be stimulated, and this can mean the development of broadband or other infrastructure. Numerous nutrient planning processes around the country in recent years provide solid evidence that this works. My question to the Center Party is simply: why then the total rejection of this positive interaction? Why are there only increased government appropriations that are the solution, when we start to have years of experience that this alone does not work, but only covers the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e706	I said in my post that you didn't have to travel very much around this country to see the optimism and eagerness of action that prevails around. But for those who don't have time to – or don't bother – travel around, or don't think it has any purpose, it's actually going to be no more than reading statistics to see that it's the districts that top export statistics, and that it's Oslo and Akershus that are at the bottom of this statistics. This is due not only to the state instrument scheme, but also to a genuine entrepreneurial spirit around the district of Norway. Travel around More and Romesdal and see the amazing business you have in the county, which is based on local ownership, local anchoring and willingness to stand on for your community! I'm definitely not a pessimist on behalf of District Norway. But when the Government says in clear terms that it intends to strengthen the growth force where it already exists, strengthen the big cities, when the Minister of State says that she wants 100 fewer municipalities, when the Minister of State of the NHO's Horizon says that she does not believe that the county council will be liquidated during this process of enlargement – that is, it is not a question of whether it should be liquidated, but of the time at which it will be wound up – when the Minister of Agriculture in the agricultural negotiations of the year adds to the most dramatic structural changes we have seen in Norwegian agriculture, and when the Minister of Fisheries wants fewer and larger vessels, it goes without saying that this is doing something dramatic and violent with the pattern of housing and the economic structure we have. When you get to the top of it, you cut into municipal food funds, which we know is important for the smallest businesses, when you cut into the SND, and you call it a "peer" of SND's instruments, but in reality it's cutting, so there's less to get – you can call it a spike, but that means reducing the amount – and replacing it with tax relief by the disappearance of the dividend tax, and 80 pst. Of these tax reliefs, Oslo and Akershus, yes, this is nothing but a solid centralisation, in which it is unfortunately difficult to see the positive. In the case of broadband, it's enough to read the Nations today to get an understanding that a municipal commitment to this is not good enough. When you have to pay 20,000 kroner a month to get broadband connections, it's not equal for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e716	I must say that I agree with the previous replicator, who said that Odd Roger Enoxen from the Central Party seemed almost distraught about this statement. It seems to be the Central Party's opinion that it's just in the country we have the good life here in Norway. The representative Enoxene mentioned that he himself was the municipal minister in his time, and that was precisely the time when it was actually the largest move from the country and into the neighbourhood. Then you can ask yourself: did not the policy of the central government work at that time? After all, they had to be ready to do something at the time they ruled. Today, we know that one in four Nordics lives in the country, in more peripheral regions, and it was shown that business is an important pillar of district policy. Of course, several parties have been involved in it today. So it's like the Center Party has previously gone in to cancel the EEA Agreement. We know that in Norwegian districts there are a number of enterprises that depend on exports and free access to the EU market. Then you can ask yourself, if you were to follow the Center Party here, how would business be, especially in District Norway? I don't think there would be any very good way to reverse the movement flow – as the Center Party wants – from cities back to districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e725	To take two words about deportation in my period as the Council of State. Although I said in my main post that it was doing cheap points of things, I would like to repeat that it was actually in the short period that there was a slowdown in the removal from the most peripheral strokes. It is true that centralisation continued, but the movement to Oslo was severely slowed down. Movements from the most peripheral regions in all parts of the country were slowed down during that period. Unfortunately, it was near enough. My ambition was to be able to reverse the movement flow, but I would have needed more than a year to implement it. I'm going to focus on the EEA Agreement, because it's also an interesting topic. The EEA Agreement made very little changes to the framework conditions for competitive business and to the industry in that country. The fishing industry and agriculture are not covered by the EEA Agreement. Moreover, the industry had free market access even before the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. The type of business that gained market access after the adoption of the EEA Agreement was service industries, and we mainly find these enterprises located in the major cities and especially in Oslo. They are the ones who have improved the framework. It's a bank/financial -- it's a service sector. They're not district industries. The district industries have had to pay the price because the EEA Agreement has brought us changes to the employer's fee, where unfortunately we have not even gone the last round. It has imposed strict regulations on us for the fishing industry and has imposed investments on the fishing industry for approx. NOK 2 billion to adapt to rigid EEA requirements that are partially meaningless. We see that the EEA Agreement intervenes in more and more areas and calls it avoiding distortions of competition, which are at the expense of the districts, and which help to strengthen the centralisation that I do not want. So unfortunately, my answer to Torbjørn Andersen is that the EEA agreement has not been a blessing to the business community in District Norway at all. It has been a greater blessing to business in the big cities and in the central districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e736	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e739	The co-operation administration has an offensive district and regional policy behind it. It is a positive policy for the good life of the whole country. When parts of the opposition make it the opposite – almost a collapse of District Norway – it has to be understood more by their own selection needs than by a serious discussion about an important theme. District policy is a whole policy area with a lot of symbolic policies, big words and great exaggerations. When one ignores the Progress Party, it's not quite the big difference between goals and instruments in district policy either. I don't think the districts are lit up with a debate where the contradictions between the city and the country are cultivated and where the districts' future is blackened. There can always, and in many parties, be district police museum guards calling wolf for the slightest change. That doesn't mean they're the district's best talkers or representative of the community. It also becomes strange when the Labour Party of its Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen appears as the government's great critic after the Labour Party itself lost all its trust in district policy over all the years they put in government and had responsibility. The wording is not consistent with the realities and leads to a full debate. We have all supported the goal of maintaining the buset pattern, but it has not been allowed to do so. The government is therefore honest when it renounces this non-obligatory exercise and instead describes facts in moving patterns and demography. Like all other policies, district policy must be based on realism, not on dreams that everything should be as it was before. At that time, not everything was as good as it was made afterwards. The reality is that most people in this country are getting an ever better life no matter where they live. But centralisation is too strong, especially towards the central Austland area. Therefore, this regional imbalance needs to be changed more strongly. The cooperation management is offensive in many fields, and I mention some of the most important ones for the Left: The decentralisation of power and responsibility – more power to the municipality consists and is given new exciting tasks and opportunities as the regional development actor movement of state-owned enterprises more focussed on business development, entrepreneurs, education and research efforts in the field of transport, among others. on racial protection, where a now will come with 50 million. kr more in revised national budgets cheaper air travel and more competition in aviation security of the most important service provision for all, and additional measures for small and medium-sized communities in need of assistance for conversion measures to ensure access to labour, perhaps the main challenge for District Norway in the years ahead municipal economy and still specific measures for North Norway Not least, it is good for the Government to stress so strongly that growth and optimism come from below, and that it is the most important thing for human beings and communities themselves. Those who have resources, vitality, culture and joy will do well with the policy of the Government. And I want to say that in my meeting with District Norway, I meet people who are concerned about creating their good life, who have creativity and progress, and they want it to be facilitated so that they get that opportunity. But no one should imagine that we can decide where to stay, or how many children to have. The Minister of Local Affairs gives an honest and realistic picture of the many forces that are pulling in the centralising direction and that work regardless of who is in government. It is a pity, therefore, that so many people are trying to make this a partisan verbal symbol practice, and through it is helping to spread pessimism and doomsday prophecies on the behalf of District Norway. The left is optimistic and believes in the good life of the city and the countryside. The buildings have many advantages, and this arrangement provides a good basis for optimism among those who want to address the challenges in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e788	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e791	The left also sat in the central government a few years ago, and the representative Vihovde then spoke in a debate: ‘The central government is offensively focusing on a more balanced development in the country, after several years with a strong imbalance and strong pressure, especially in the Oslo area.’ And on the other hand, ‘A new tool was launched in a broad field and a new optimism has been created in District Norway.’ That is what the representative, Mr Vihövde, said from this chair two years ago. Now we know that most of these new instruments introduced under the central government are heavily cut or discontinued. My question to the representative Vihovde is then: Has Left lost faith in the earlier instruments, since it is now unhindered to boast that a new policy is the best way forward for District Norway? Furthermore, the representative in his post says that growth and optimism come from below. My other question is: Has the Bondevik II government created any new optimism in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e808	In fact, in the left, we feel that the policy that we had in the Bondevik I government, we also agree to continue in this government. The Bondevik I government created e.g. an own racial protection plan, which would make it safe to bow in some razed struts of the country. That racial protection plan continues this government, and it will actually be implemented at an earlier date than planned. We will continue to ensure good service provision in the municipalities. The most important job and, in fact, the biggest challenge facing District Norway is securing access to labour. When I travel along the coast and meet the shipping industry, I am told that they do not dare to invest in expansion because they do not have or seem to have access to the labour they need. It is then an important signal that a bet and a positive development along the coast and off the coast of Norway must also be secured by the labour force you need. It's a continuation. What goes on in travel life is also very important to us. Travel life is important for business development around a part of the district. It's important to market Norway, so we get more people to travel here. So I feel like we're passing on some of the district policy tools that we stood for. Maybe we've sharpened up a little bit and pointed a little bit more towards those who really need them. It is perhaps one of the main challenges we have, simply to fix the means of action we use, so that they meet and work where they are most needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e819	I very much appreciate that politicians are honest, and the representative from the Left was honest. There is respect for her standing on the pulpit and admitting that the government has stated the settlement goal. I made some statements in an interpellation debate that was in Stortinget for a while back. Where I said something like that, district policy is too much of a transfer without making demands. This has resulted in preserving both housing and an old - fashioned industrial structure. The old notion that everyone has the right to live wherever they want, regardless of job or not, can no longer afford it. That is what I said in that debate. In that context, I got my passport prescribed by politicians from many parties, including from the Left, around the whole country. That's why my challenge and my question to the representative Vihovde in relation to what she now said in her statement: Does the representative from the Left share my views that came up in the interpellation debate? Because there's no difference between what I said there, and what the representative kind of reproduces in his post, and that's kind of a confirmation of what's in the district statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e828	I'm sure there's some difference when it comes to the view that the Progress Party and the Left have on transfers. If we go in and see where we're going most, I'm not so sure that it's District Norway that gets most of the transfers from the Treasury. When I say targeted transfers, it's "targeted" based on what's the goal of them and what we get for them if we're going to have a buset pattern and active industries around, especially in agriculture. Agriculture is, of course, securing both safe food and a desired bustet pattern, but it is also ensuring fine cultural landscapes and fine experiences for those who want to travel and use Norway. I believe that some of the transfers we use today can be more targeted and made more fine-tuning to ensure that we meet. The left stands for a policy where we want to use state resources targeted to achieve the goals we have, including the goal that it will be possible for people to live around the country. But I actually believe that the vision that comes with this is that everything that goes to something that happens north of the Sinsen Cross and west of Aker Brygge is district policy. That's wrong. It's spreading pessimism. It is spreading a notion that everything that happens outside of Oslogryta is district policy and subsidies. Out in the districts, I – I myself come from a district – experience a great deal of optimism. We'll do our own thing. We want to use and store the resources that exist there and export them. But it has to be made right. I feel that this government is helping to facilitate the export of existing resources to the north of Sinsenkreuzet and to the west of Aker Brygge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e837	I'd like to challenge the Left in two areas. There are two areas left that have been nuclear matter. One area concerns freedom of choice, which has been a tribute to the Left. In this statement, you say that you want to give people freedom of choice, that you have to be able to take the decision as to where you want to live, and that it is a political task to facilitate it. One of the instruments that must then be in place is for example: a broadband infrastructure. It is important for business start-ups, and it is also important for the development of educational institutions, schools, etc., so that they can benefit from the new information and development opportunities that lie there. SV, and obviously also the Government, sees that this does not go off in the districts, because there are not enough people to ask for it. So the market isn't big enough, and it's too expensive to expand. We believe that the consequences of this should only be taken as a last resort and that this infrastructure should be put in place so that it does not fall into the back of competition. However, the development comes first when the wheels turn off their sails. Is the Left in agreement with this, and can you imagine supporting such a proposal? The second question concerns the environment. There has also been a high profile on the left. An important area of energy policy. In Stortinget there are now two Document No. Proposals for treatment, both on the basis of a volume-based approach, on the use of bioenergy and other renewable environmentally friendly energy, and on the setting up of a tax regime to promote environmentally friendly energy. We know that this is also a district-friendly energy policy. Bioenergy is produced in the districts. It also makes part of the other alternative environmentally friendly energy. Will the Left support these proposals, so that we can put in place both a better environmental policy and a better rural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e846	Let me start with broadband. I had some words in my post about being a museum watchman and holding on to what was going on. Then I can give you a little confession. In 1996, when the discussion was about the transformation and release of the Telecom from the management company to AS, Left voted against. But if we hadn't taken that step and done about this business and released it, we wouldn't have gotten the technological developments that we've got in Norway today. Then I've come with a recognition in that area. Karin Andersen talks about the proposals from SV. I see no difference between the proposals and what has been said in the distribution. The government says they want to bet on broadband. But what has been our Left's policy is that one should first use the market forces, let the market expand broadband technology where it is profitable, and then the state must rely on one to have active customers – the municipalities, the schools, the public around – and then see if there is a need for public support. First, however, it must be ensured that the market works where it can function. When it's about bioenergy, we want to use that energy. There is something that our Minister of Agriculture has been very clear about, because he is the one who controls the department that has a lot to contribute to this matter. The Minister of Local Affairs has also said in the statement that this is actually the government's policy. There I do not see that neither SV nor Left is particularly unbalanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e856	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e859	A regional policy debate is usually based on incentives for districts. However, in order for these measures to have the necessary effect, they need to be combined with measures to reduce the pressure on the major cities and, in particular, Oslo. At the same time, we have to figure out that it's not negative for cities to get less pressure. On the contrary, it is an advantage, both in terms of the environment, housing prices and social conditions. In Oslo, the pressure for expansion is particularly strong. It is therefore commendable that the Right Centre Government has initiated a process to move some State jobs out of the capital. Unfortunately, however, the effect of this is reversed by the continued unreduced strength of the development of new private office jobs in the city. The Coastal Party will therefore ask the Government to consider introducing its own investment fee for the construction of new office premises in Oslo and other areas characterised by strong expansionary pressure. In the context of the Stortingen’s treatment of the open-air message, it was proposed to introduce a separate law on the protection of Oslomarka. Such a law would not only ensure important environmental quality in the Oslo area, but would also effectively limit the development potential of Oslo, thereby hampering the centralisation and depopulation of the countryside. The Coastal Party is therefore disappointed that the Christian People's Party and the Right of the Stortinget voted against a proposal on the Marka Law. And directly alarmingly, the Centre Party voted against the use of such an important environmental and district policy instrument. The coastal party wants initially to provide the most possible work, housing and a good environment where they live and have their networks. In order to ensure housing in the districts, we want to take a number of positive measures, so that people have a real opportunity to live. It's important that the edges have as many legs as possible on them. We will therefore ensure good conditions for agriculture and ensure that the yield of fisheries benefits the rural population. Proper provision of public services is also necessary to prevent deportation from the countryside. Tax policy is important for districts. The Coastal Party is pleased that the Right Centre Government is willing to fight to maintain the differentiated employer fee as a district policy instrument. However, we have called for a government strategy on how to prevent Norway from being pushed by ESA to impose a high employer charge in the most deprived districts. The Coastal Party may include, inter alia: imagine an extension of the zone by zero employer charge. Another thing is the corporate tax, which I understand is once again to be applied to the municipalities – it must be done in such a way that it benefits the municipalities where production is carried out. It was sad that this was removed by the Bondevik I government. It may be mentioned that the Coastal Party has proposed a level playing field for maritime and land transport. This proposal would facilitate the equalisation of investments in and the operation of public infrastructure in fairways and ports with the equivalent in the road sector under the VAT law. Natural advantages, such as proximity to natural resources, must benefit much more the districts in question, e.g. by: value creation and workplaces. It is necessary to provide for a level playing field for the districts and the central struts. It is also necessary to provide for the necessary compensation for distance dumping in relation to the market. Enterprises in the north of Sweden and in the north of Finland benefit from the EU's special transport aid schemes. The coastal party has therefore taken the initiative to introduce a Norwegian transport aid scheme which can fully compensate for the competitive advantage enjoyed by the companies in northern Sweden and in northern Finland today. It should also be a public task to ensure that districts have good telecommunications networks, such as: Broadband – and I am very happy that the Progress Party has signaled that they also believe that this is a public task. So technically, there's a lot of opportunities to have a decentralised business. Strengthening roads and infrastructure in rural areas would stimulate rural settlements, which in turn would lead to increased value creation. Today's road, sea and rail investment is not in line with the need. Here you need a real lift. A stronger effort on road, sea and rail would, in the view of the Coastal Party, provide a far greater return for the districts and future generations than the current yield of the oil fund does. The fourth year's return on the oil fund was on a staggering minus NOK 24.3 billion. This is a management of the oil fund that the undersigned is distanced from. There are many who are trying to produce centralisation as an inescapable process, with political decisions having little effect. The truth is that if the political will is present, development can be governed. Norway has special conditions to succeed in creating a stable society with living communities and cities with no press problems. I would also like to signal that the Coastal Party will join the proposals promoted by the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e889	The government is right that there have been major changes in the pattern of construction in our country in recent decades. Developments have been characterised by different levels of centralisation. The strongest increase in the population has occurred in metropolitan areas, especially in the Oslofjord region. We can therefore say that, until now, we have not achieved good enough results in rural and regional policy. All those who have been responsible for the governance of our society must take their share of the debt for it. The working party has been able to see that we're going to keep up the main features of our construction pattern. We're still going to work on that line. It's a very important goal. If we give in to this area, the centralization forces will have even greater room for manoeuvre. This is not the way we want social development to go. In this area, a new course is announced by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. It is simply called: ‘Our housing target for the next 20 years is a more balanced development, in which all parts of the country have population growth.’ The government here provides a very central principle for our construction. There's every reason to worry about that. Of course, the government is right when it points to the fact that the basis for growth exists primarily in local communities — in individuals, businesses and governance. In addition, emphasis is placed on their ability to cooperate. Such a policy we could join the Workers' Party if there was consistency between life and learning, between theory and practice. In his draft budget, the Bondevik II government triggered a regional political storm. There were a number of proposals that weakened or removed regional policy instruments. Some examples may be: The allocation of regional policy instruments was reduced by 350 million. The funding for regional co-ordination measures was removed.The running of the food and district measures in SND was greatly reduced.The industrial policy was reduced by DKK 1.7 billion.Agricultural agreements were cut by 350 million. kr before the negotiations were started.The means of de-sampling in the districts were removed. The list could have been longer. The reactions to the Government's policy were strong – also from their own ranks: ‘It is Right-wing policy, but not KrF policy, to cut the allocations to local business funds and the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund [[SND]] This spokesperson in Skjervøy, Roy Waage, from the Christian People's Party. We already see the results of this policy. Many people in the business world outstrip SND because the institution is very weak. The SND director in Sogn and Fjordane informed a few days ago that the number of applications for SND funding up to this time of year has decreased by a quarter. The decline is particularly high for the small industry, which is the backbone of the business community in the county. The value creation in many of our districts is enormous. It has a lot to say for the social economy. I come from a state that is at the very top when it relates to export income per. built-in. The business leaders there do not make a number that the dividend tax has to be removed. A business owner said this: ‘It is a special measure that allows rich shareholders in the cities to fill their wallets.’ However, the Minister for Local Affairs and Regional Affairs makes a number that the dividend tax should be removed, and clearly suggests that it is a big and good district policy case. Every day is clearly different for many business leaders in our districts. The government indicates that the fisheries and aquaculture industry has good growing conditions. The working party agrees. But it's striking that the government is so little concrete when it mentions this industry. There is no concrete definition of the action to be taken to strengthen nutrition. The Labour Party will have an active district policy. We are willing to use the necessary measures to promote activity and generate profitability. Then it also needs enough resources. In this field too, the Government will not make any new and positive contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e947	There is not so much that has surprised me in this debate, perhaps the most that the temperature has been considerably lower than it looked like it was on Tuesday after the presentation was made. It could be that you've finally read the statement and therefore see what the government's policy actually is. And then I think most, including the critics who have quoted from different parts of the government party's local areas, have discovered that what's in this statement is a clear statement from the Government to pursue an active regional and regional policy. But it's a challenge, and I don't think anyone in this debate has taken on board that the really deep problems of centralization are about the structural changes in our society. And then I'm not talking about changes in the Post, Aetat or NSB, I'm talking about the change from being a primary producing society through being an industrial society to becoming a service-generating society. It's going to the knowledge and service community that has been the main challenge for District Norway, and it's an acute challenge these days. If we look at the structure of District Norway, District Norway is still synonymous with the industrial and secondary industries, where industry depends on international competition and not least on the level of costs to be borne by other countries. In fact, in District Norway, the relationship with Oslo is less dependent on the relationship with the rest of the world in terms of competition. Therefore, the Government considers it important to focus on the general framework conditions, focusing on keeping the level of costs in Norway down, thus contributing to the maintenance of rural jobs. The districts are the first to get out of competition if we let the wage and price rise get free in Norway. If the interest rate is high, it is mainly District Norway that is going to lose in terms of fewer investments. And then District Norway is also losing out on the fact that until now we have not had an ambitious enough plan to provide us with better labour supply. We talk a lot about creating jobs in the districts, but in many parts of Norway there is a shortage of labour, and then we have to contribute in this way. It shifts businesses out of this country because of lack of labour and because of high cost levels. They are not moving because this government has opened up SIVA to invest out – it has been done by former central party and labour party ministers – we have actually tightened up on SIVA this year: the regional policy instruments in the form of money transferred to them are not going to be used in that direction. So I want to say that it's interesting to notice the difference in relation to where the bombastic Workers' Party has been. In the previous discussion, which was here in Stortinget on 9 April, the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said that the problem is not that we do not know what is necessary to get a more active district policy. The surprise today was a humble recognition now three weeks later, when he admitted that we do not fully know it. That's why we need to work more with the lowered committee of experts to find out what instruments are going to be used, and that's what the government is open to. But then the government also believes that we have to be honest with the housing goal and what we can do. So many people can say, why are we discussing this, people are moving where they want to. The fact that we are adopting a housing target here does not mean anything to the actual residence of individuals, but if we focus on errors in district policy, we can make things worse, and therefore it is so important that we ensure a balanced development between the parts of the country. It's not like the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said, that the goal of this statement can be achieved if there's only growth in Bodø and Tromsø, because that means that North Norway has big enough growth. Then you have not read what is in the statement. Not least, we have a fundamental belief that if we are to use resources around this country, it also means that we are to have a widespread growth in those parts of this country that have growth potential. That growth power can be created, and it is created from below – it is not created by the state and not necessarily by the means that we have. The government will continue to work with a peak of the instruments in relation to the company’s business. I think all that SV has said in this debate about focusing on entrepreneurship, business start-ups and the establishment of immigrant businesses can be well covered in the statement from the Government. Then there are many people who have missed entirely specific actions on our part. Why we have not brought this about is because a very important reform is being discussed in the Grand Duchy, namely the decentralisation reform of the counties. We cannot create new packages of the kind that have appeared at regular intervals to mark the bets of different governments, when we say at the same time that we believe that in the future it is the county that will take over the majority of the stakes on instruments and the allocation of resources on the different instruments. This means that there will be a general statement, but that does not mean that there will not be a more targeted district policy, because I also trust that the county council will in future find out what is best in their region, and which areas need the strongest reinforcement. But that doesn't mean we're going to sit here and pick the winners, or we're going to pick the special tools on which it's going to be the most invested.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e965	I must first be allowed to reassure the Council of State that I mean the same thing now that I meant at the beginning of April. I insist that the main problem in today's situation is not a lack of knowledge, but that the government is doing the very opposite of what is necessary. Then there has been considerable criticism of the government's district policy. And it is true, as the Council of State points out, that the Workers' Party has criticized it, but it is not the Workers' Party that has used the strongest words. One of those who have used the strongest words is a newly elected central government member in the Right. I assume that it may have something to do with him putting his finger on a point that is also important to a part of the National Meeting of the Right. He used the word «catastrophe», not the Workers' Party. Then I would have expected the Government and the Council of State to some extent take over the criticism that has come, even from their own party traps. But today we have a revised budget. What, then, is in the revised budget in this area? There are no appropriations for municipal food funds. There are no appropriations for defrosting, where the cut has been heavily criticised. It is true that there is a new measure under the SND: a grant is given to cancel 100 people in the SND, so that the instrument is significantly weakened, and as far as I understand, it applies to almost all the states. Has not the Council of State taken any note of the strong reactions which have also been among the Right-wing rapporteurs and the Right-wing voters around the country in relation to the government's weakening of district policy? Or is it that she unilaterally believes in the effects of tax policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e976	Earlier today, the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen said that one of the strongest reactions he had heard was Jens Petter Ekorenes' statement that the cut in the SND was a «catastrophe». I wonder where Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen was in the autumn of 2000 when the budget for 2001 was presented. Then there was a rich economy in the districts and cities of the measures that the then government put forward, with 12 billion dollars in increased tax burdens, primarily on business. So he should be used to hearing the word 'disaster' from his time as Minister of Finance. There is a difference of view between the Workers' Party and the Government on the importance of general framework conditions. But I think it's strange that in none of the posts that the Workers' Party has had here today, there is talk of general framework conditions at all. It's just about the 1.4 billion that is on the Ministry's budget for the instrumentation, while the important structural changes that lie behind us having population changes are just the structural changes that we're making in the big policy. It is the structural changes in the big policy that are going to be most important. And one of the most important things is that we don't make Norwegian business non-competitive further, because that means that it's the jobs in the districts that go first, because it's the ones that are exposed to competition. Cities survive without a business of that type because they are service-oriented, service- and public-sector oriented. What is really being hit is the competitive part. So to the revised national budget. You quickly forget to say what's also lying there of better things. It is located among others. a follow-up to the rural policy statement, of 12 million. kr more for SIVA’s business and incubator activities. So to the 100 posts attached to the SND. When reducing the workload by reducing the appropriations, it is also natural to reduce staffing gradually. It can't be that we want to have a bureaucracy that's there without work? Then we can use the money for something better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e987	I can almost not fail to get into the previous loop. When you listen to the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen about the 100 employees in the SND who are now at risk of losing their jobs, it is like the essence of the district policy that has been pursued: one is more concerned about having employees in the SND. Today, there is a cry for labour – there is a big debate. We're out of work. So the 100 employees in the SND should certainly find a job to do in the labour market that exists in Norway today. What I want to challenge, however, is what the Council of State says in relation to districts becoming the major losers in wage and price increases and interest increases. And I totally agree. But the Council of State did not mention the transport costs, which are increasing. I fully agree that it is the districts that are becoming the big losers at high wage costs, price increases and any interest rate increase. Now we see all these danger signals. We have confirmed this in relation to wage increases – large wage increases in the public sector in particular. We also see a certain increase in price increases, and it's threatened with interest rate increases. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State in relation to it: is it not now perhaps time that the Government also thinks in the paths that the Progress Party challenged the Government in earlier this winter, to use tax policy to a greater extent, in the hope of at least reducing wage increases by letting people get it in the form of net transfers? The second is that the Council of State says that it is difficult to rely on selective measures. But it should be easy for the government to tell what one thinks about agricultural simplification, and what one means by market building Norway. It should not be difficult for the Council of State to give concrete examples of how it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e998	We agree that by keeping taxes low and reducing them, one will help the districts get better over time, and that a competitive business, not least in the districts, will get better, and that one could have a lower wage settlement than we have seen. Maybe the mix will be different from year to year, but we have a commitment in the Sem Declaration, which the Government governs, about 25 billion dollars in tax relief over the four years, and we're actually on the right track in relation to the goal of what's in the current year's budget. It will also be because part of the relief that comes now will be concentrated, highly linked to the business side, and it will mean that a relief from competitive business will be provided, which will then be able to experience a lower cost level due to direct relief in taxes and charges. With regard to road investment and reducing transport costs, it is also a priority area. We have said that, in relation to the national transport plan and the arrangement of the Stoltenberg administration, we will have about. 600 million. kr more annually in transport investments. I am fully aware that there may be a need for a long, much more, but that needs to be balanced in relation to the pressure in the Norwegian economy as a whole. For one, lower transport costs can be achieved through investment, but one can get higher costs through interest rate increases if we spend too much money. The government is concerned that agriculture should play a regional role, but also that it should be modernised and developed. That is why we have also made an offer in the agricultural settlement that contains both elements. Agriculture, as an important rural industry, should be able to develop in order to live on farming, but at the same time there are elements in the agricultural structure that will create structural changes that will make it more robust over time and will also simplify our entire agricultural system in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1007	Governments say this is more about the major structures than about individual measures. Then I'll take that as a starting point, especially in two areas. One is the lack of labour. SV agrees with the Government that there is a shortage of labour. But if the government actually believes this, and that this, as I understand it, is one of the reasons why you cut in the SND, because you are afraid that there are so many jobs that you don't have people to do it, then why do you cut into labour market measures, both in the usual and labour market measures for the disabled, in the document it has presented today? At the same time, we know from the government's own documentation in the budget proposals that labour market measures work – people come to work easier, people get better access to education and get a job through it. What in the world is the context of the major structural policy? The second piece is research and education. It's the spine in the future. None of us know which jobs we're going to live on in the future, but what we know is that there are people who are going to create them. Then there is a commitment to research and education that must be the pillar, whether it be district policy or industrial development policy. I can't see so much of it in this government's policy, but on the contrary, I see very clear traces of a government that wants a different policy of distribution, where those who do it well will be allowed to do it even better at the expense, as we see it, of a forward-looking commitment both to research and education that could secure jobs and come out for us all, even in the future. And then finally to the reasoning around betting on broadband, where the government says it should consider such wagering. Isn't it true that if you don't let the districts get the same starting point as the center, the center, where this goes off the sea, will have a competitive advantage over the districts, because the center can only develop jobs? The jobs that then depend on broadband have to be located where there is, and are not located in the districts, they have to go to the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1016	We don't cut in the SND because we're afraid we're going to use up the workforce there, rather than in other areas, but we've in the fall reduced the appropriations for the SND because we needed to get out with a budget that was balanced – with heavy, important other tasks to do – and that helped us give the market signals that were necessary to realize what we got, namely 0.5 pst. interest rate decline, which was important for all parts of our society. It's important for the municipalities, which in this way got over 400 million. It is important for companies to invest, that we have a trend that makes it easier for them to invest in the future, and it is not least important for people in the start-up phase who have high loans, both after studying and after buying housing. That's why it's so important to keep order in these frameworks of the economy, because there's important stability signals that make people dare to bet, be it in private, in municipalities or in business. So now when we decrease by 100, it's an adjustment because we've reduced the activity level of the SND. I guess it's not like someone here thinks it's important to maintain jobs in the SND. These are not the things that are the important district policy. The important district policy is to maintain and create new jobs and activities in actual functioning and value-producing businesses, and not just bureaucracy. In fact, when it comes to investing in education, this government rates. We're betting on both research and education. We have done so by creating a system for research efforts in enterprises through a R & D over-price depreciation scheme, which we believe is important, because then a research linked to exactly the priorities of the enterprise. All other methods are more difficult to get to this good link to which can lead to new development. We focus on training in several areas, but not least on making reforms in relation to teacher training, in relation to fresh schools, in relation to the quality and content of education. Because that's what's going to be the most important thing in the future, what we've learned at school, not in what school and how long we've gone there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1024	Since the Council of State didn't finish its reply to the previous line, I'm going to give her another chance. Is she willing to meet the NHO, which now points out that the market can support the expansion of broadband to 75 pst. of the country, but to the remaining 25 pst. must the State contribute to not falling outside that part of the country? We in the Center Party are more concerned with the possibilities that lie in the districts. In the same way as Right, we want to focus on all the positive values that exist, but unlike Right, we think that the effort must be stepped up instead of being reduced. The most striking thing about today's debate is the withdrawal of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the debate on regional and district policy last year. There is still a need for clarification from these two parts in one area, and that is the goal of preserving the main features of the build pattern. For in commenting on the presentation we are discussing today, Anita Apelthun Sæle says that the Christian People's Party will help to further develop growth-intensive regions in all parts of the country and maintain the main features of the construction pattern, so that one is still able to take out the potential for value creation that exists. – Is it so that the Government will keep the main features of the construction pattern, or is it, as the Council of State has previously said, leaving?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1031	Those who read the account will see that we still believe we should work to preserve the main features of the housing pattern. It's in the statement. But what's also important is what we've labeled as the main goal of the next twenty years, namely the balanced growth trend between parts of the country. It is also a formidable challenge. This means ensuring growth in the various major regions of Norway, as well as local growth in many places. And it's a challenge to have a guided idea of how public activities are organised, and how, with different instruments, we stimulate activity in different parts of the country. Among other things, it will affect the outsourcing of state jobs, for which the Government is working to find an offensive strategy. What we want to build on are broad environments of competence in all parts of our country. And with the rate of growth that is currently in the Oslo and Akershus areas, it's a pretty big task the government has undertaken. So to the broadband. We're assessing how we're going to keep working on it. We have said in the statement that we, among other things, assesses the need to provide public funding in relation to the weakest areas in order to obtain good broadband coverage. But an important tool is that public agencies in cooperation, through the demand functions, contribute to this, and that through the state and the municipalities we need to coordinate demand in the smaller municipalities – for this is state activity in most places. These are often the largest jobs in many places, and the use of coordinated demand can lead to better broadband deployment. In fact, there are several municipalities that have managed to do this, and that have been lying in front around in District Norway to get broadband at an early stage to their area, by the fact that the municipality, business and state agencies have merged about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1038	In recent times, the main objective has been to maintain the main features of the construction pattern and to have equivalent living conditions throughout the country. It lives people in the whole country, and it makes both natural and man-made resources available for the benefit of the whole country. Value creation is controlled, the pressures on big cities are reduced, and we get more diverse communities. The government now wants to deviate from this policy objective by distorting the efforts of the economic poor regions of regional centres and areas where there is already good growth today. The council said we should be honest with the construction goal. Yes, it makes sense that Right will pursue right-wing policies, where the consequence is even more deportation from small communities. I recognise that it may be difficult to stop a centralization wave, but does the Council not see that this changing objective can have an amplifying effect, namely that one gets a stronger urbanisation and centralisation than one would have achieved with the broad political objective that has until now been in the field of district policy? Does the Council of State not fear that many communities will now be darkened and that one will have Swedish and Finnish states in this country? Governments have previously announced that the Government will consider moving more government jobs out of Oslo, and that is positive. My question to the Council of State is whether it can be a little more precise and now tell which state jobs this is going to apply. In the context of the SND exchange of lines earlier, I now see the Council of State as continuing the SND reduction, that it is the Council of State's intention, and that SND should be a balancing item in the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1049	I don't think it's a soul in Norway that's going to move from its hometown to another place because we have a main objective that's about the challenge over the next twenty years, which is balanced growth in relation to the parts of the country. What I think many people are going to do is move because they take an education that only gives them a job in a more centralised stroke. They marry a person who also wants to be in work, and where they live, it's not the relevant job for both, and then they move on. So I think it's going to be the same processes that it's been before. What I think is important in terms of politics is that we do not bring district policy into the discredit that district policy has been brought into, by having a goal that is totally unrealistic in relation to what can be achieved. Then any person could say that we do not achieve the objectives, and then district policy has fallen, instead of saying that we need to have some goals that also ensure that district policy has a chance of achieving goals that make it possible to say that something has been successful. I think it's crucial in the future. I think district policy is important, and I think it is important to use the whole country. I believe that we should have instruments in the small form of direct instruments that are used locally, but also in relation to the broad, general conditions, because it is important to maintain the settlement around the country. As far as the issue of small communities is concerned, I believe that the most important thing for them in the future is the tipping-off of measures that they are doing, that go on entrepreneurial activity and culture, and that we need to focus more on creating growth locally, and that it is created from below. If we get a school system in this country so that people are more able locally to develop their own natural resources, we are more likely to develop new and exciting jobs locally. If we continue to have a unified education that doesn't stimulate entrepreneurial culture, we'll see to it that more and more people take an education that makes them move from the places they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1058	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1061	The debate on Norwegian district policy has at all times become a strange exercise, you ask me, President. While regional policy ambitions and efforts have long been sky-high in Norway in order to maintain the pattern of residence and the population of outlying areas, the development of very many district municipalities has gone in the opposite direction to the set objective of a large-scale deportation from land to urban areas. The flow from country to city has been high for many years, and today three out of four northern people live in cities or agglomerations. This has happened while the economic transfers from the state, in order to maintain housing patterns and population in the countryside, have been formidable over a number of years. It can hardly be clearly concluded today that the state of District Norway would have been significantly worse without this bias or diversity of regional policy instruments introduced in the last decades. Rather, there is reason to argue that the formidable regional policy effort in Norway may have been a disadvantage for the development of many rural municipalities. Because, through a wide range of rural policy devices in both the income system, the tax system, agricultural policy and in a number of other specific schemes of a regional policy nature, a very unfortunate employment structure and subsidy dependency have been developed in the districts-Norway and districts. With this, I believe that too much of the labour force in many district municipalities has been employed in the municipal and non-productive sector because of the income system, and in addition agricultural policy has also led to a completely wrong use of labour. At the top of it all, there has been a corporate tax that has not promoted local ownership of private business. The result is that today, municipalities and the public sector are often the second largest employer in a wide range of district municipalities. If we were to create viable towns, private and value-creating businesses had to be the largest employers, and not sheltered, public sector. In addition, Utkant-Norway has difficult external framework conditions in the form of large distance congestion, through partly poor infrastructure and sky-high tax loads on car transport, which exacerbate the conditions for creating a competitive business and stimulating new start-up in District Norway. There has therefore hardly been any advantage for District Norway to have been granted an existence in state ‘crickers’ and means of assistance by well-meaning district politicians. As far as I can judge, there are few or no territorial policy objectives to maintain population and housing patterns achieved in particular according to the level of ambition. The significant political and economic efforts that have become districts in recent years appear to have been largely unsuccessful. We should take the consequences of this. District Norway must be given far more opportunity to stand on its own feet and not equally dependent on state aid policies and, as mentioned, crutches. However, better roads should be built, taxes for business should be reduced, taxes for transport should be reduced, industry should be given better general framework conditions, public sector constraints should be significantly reduced, municipal mergers should be stimulated, the county should be removed, the administrative system should be removed, etc. There's an innumerable amount of things you can and should try, because today's district policy is out of date, and it doesn't work according to purpose. That's something we're still getting examples of. Not least, today's debate has clearly shown, as many have said, that it has not worked as you would like. In my view, we simply do not need any specific district policy in Norway. We only need a general, better framework for business and private initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1076	Author Arnulf Upperland addressed in a poem a warning to the Norwegian people. The poem is called ‘You must not sleep!’ I believe representatives of the Norwegian population who are concerned about maintaining the scattered settlement, must not sleep. I think representatives who are busy helping communities that are in the process of impoverishment don't have to sleep. Likewise, those who want to live settlements in the future must not sleep. Why can't they sleep? Well, we are now experiencing a Right-Handed Government that is presenting a ‘District Message’ that is not a ‘District Message’. I have said this before in Stortinget and I would like to repeat it: District policy is Norway's policy for scattered areas. It's not charity, but it's a policy for a part of our country that has a special housing structure, like we have a urban policy for areas that have a different type of housing structure. Norway needs to have a policy for scattered rural areas, and this statement does not contain it. We in SV want absolute innovation in district policy. We see that it doesn't work, and that's why we're looking to find some new grips. However, the statement provides for a roadblock in Norwegian district policy. It is now a goal to have growth in all parts of the country. It has nothing to do with district policy that Tromsø, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and Oslo are growing. It has nothing to do with district policy. It's a complete misunderstanding. The Minister of Local Affairs and I clearly have a completely different view of what the term ‘district’ is for. On April 9, this year, I had an interpellation in the United Kingdom regarding the District Commission. The proposal for a district commission was well received by the Prime Minister, in the leadership of many media and among many local politicians around the country. Why was it well received? Yes, because many people see that today's district policy is not working well enough. But you want to live around in District Norway, and that's why you're looking for a new grip. I agree with the municipal minister that there is a very, very difficult job to go into. There are no simsalabim and simple solutions here. But it is a very necessary job that needs to be done. The aim was to look at district policy with completely new eyes to achieve a better policy that could prevent further centralisation. But while we wait for this, we need to strengthen today's district policy with today's familiar tools. That means it has to be pointed. That means that we might need to have larger doses in some places. We don't have to do what it says in the statement, that we actually reduce the activity. For me, it is a little ridiculous to hear that 100 jobs in the SND are kind of just to germinate. There are 100 people to organise district policy in District Norway, that's it. There are 100 people who run industrial policies together with the companies in District Norway. That's what we remove, and not 100 random jobs where you can do anything. For SV, this statement is a great disappointment. The size must not fall asleep now and be overrun by the new direction of district policy. What has been presented is too bad and the objective must be turned around. We can't accept that once we've previously had a goal of having a settlement across the country, we're now going to accept to increase the settlement in all parts of the country. It's a dramatic turn it's about here from the goal we've had in the past, that it's going to be a settlement in all municipalities across the country, to go over to talking about parts of the country. The Storting must be aware of that. When Minister of Fisheries Jan Henry T. Olsen came home from Brussels after the last negotiations with the EU, the editor of Nordlys, Ivan Kristoffersen, wrote the following: This does not last, Jan Henry! I allow myself to use his words and say: This doesn't last, Erna!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1099	The main spokesperson of the Workers' Party, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, used Skervøy rapporteur Roy Waage as a witness of truth. I think it might be right to use Libra as a witness of truth. In the future in the north – and listen to the name, there are visions, there are possibilities in the north – the headline is Monday, May 6: ‘Waage likes the district message’ The article refers to the two former state councils Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen and Odd Roger Enoxen, who were ready for the NRK that conversion means death for a number of places in District Norway. Now there has been a debate on the use of the word «catastrophe». It must have been a disaster worse than the death of Schjøtt-Pedersen. On the other hand, the rapporteur in Skjervøy, Roy Waage, is of a different opinion. He said: “I will characterize this as exciting and innovative......Now there is a message that is at least honest.” The rapporteur-general further states that ‘he believes this message will lead to a balanced development’. Yes, I'd like to use Roy Libra as a witness of truth. The Christian People's Party has a vision of using the whole country. Why? Yes, because people in Norway are going to live where they want to. The value of districts is crucial for the economy of the country. It's no use when the industries in the districts go doll, believing that the cities can live on. It is in the districts that values are created. Centralization is expensive, and it creates pressure, both in economics and for humans. Both the districts and cities have qualities that the Christian People's Party wants to develop. We've been dealing with statistics for the last 20-30 years. In fact, the women in this country have moved throughout the last century, and so much so that less than 50 pst. have lived in the municipality in which they were born and raised. This is nothing new. But then it's the government saying that there's a lot of evidence that this centralization will continue, but "we don't want to be passive about such a development." You set ambitious goals. One wants to curb a development where the Oslo region acts as a magnet and grows at the expense of and far more than the rest of the country. This is good district policy: a balanced development in which all parts of the country will have population growth, to ensure the basis for good living conditions in all parts of the country, to sharpen the operational instruments and apparatus, to invest in entrepreneurship, to further develop resource-based industries, to decentralise the management of regional and regional policy instruments, to outsource government tasks and to deploy additional resources in Northern Norway! Yes, this is very good Christian People's Party policy. You've been to the SND today. And let me refer to today's issue of the People's Magazine, Troms, which has a headline that says that "SND-cuts hit little in Mid-Troms". It further states in the article: ‘It is the cities and the central strata of the country that are the big losers when SND has to cut millions in its budgets. The districts” – i.e. those who spoke of the previous – “also Mid-Troms, become far from losers even if the purse is twisted again”, SND Director Gunn Ovesen said. And she added that the business leaders in Mid-Throms were good at getting good projects out. That's not what goes on in the scattered settlement and the businesses that we cut in the SND. And that you put down SND Invest, which has invested more than 60 pst. in enterprises abroad, County-Norway may refuse to lose. This is a good account with a lot of Christian People's Party politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1138	In fact, I would particularly recommend the Christian People's Party to read the minutes of the debate on regional and regional policy on 11 June 2001. Listen what Anita Apelthun's seal said then: «Even if Norway is in jumbo space when it is a business owner, Norway has been a country of creative founders. We have over 100,000 small businesses and many one-man or wife companies. But far more ideas are born than those that come into production, and many have also sold out of Norway because there was not enough capital to put a good product into production. That's why we need SND, nutrition funds, etc. for viable entrepreneurs to see the light of day. Public involvement in the form of direct bonuses, responsible loans or guarantees may contribute to the success of many projects over the first knee.» Much has obviously happened to the Christian People's Party. And that's really sad, I think, because the Workers' Party and the Centre parties have always come together about an active district policy that would ensure the main features of the housing pattern and equal opportunities in all parts of the country. In my county, Hedmark, we have municipalities in the north-east valley, which now cross-politically go out and say that they are tired of party speeches. The rapporteurs in the North East do not want any assistance from the Ministry of Local Affairs. Instead, they will be committed to the necessary infrastructure in the form of roads, railways and broadband, and hence to the creation of value that can lead the towns out of the backyard. Before the elections, there was no shortage of words about investment in infrastructure and measures for business. That's why there were great expectations for the Bondevik II government. Answers are available: With regard to infrastructure investment, the Government has moved 15 million. kr from rail to road. That's the bet. As far as the policy on nutrition is concerned, it must be allowed to ask: Where did that road take? Appropriations to help create jobs in the districts have been drastically cut. Since its inception in 1993, SND has contributed to 40 000 to 50 000 jobs – new or secured. For many municipalities, this has been an important establishment. The Bondevik I government proposed to strengthen municipal nutrition funds, but Bondevik II cuts all such support. What could have happened? One does not stop relocation from the districts by cutting off regional policy measures. Or is it just the withdrawal of the Bondevik II government wants? The opening of the presentation begins by stating that the Government will strengthen regional policy to ensure the settlement, value creation and local communities throughout the country. The population of Hedmark is dependent on transport. The Bondevik government is removing all freight balancing for petrol, which puts an economic burden on people in the districts. It actually also means that food is becoming more expensive. Are those measures to prevent relocation? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1166	The ability of district Norway to survive is a matter of knowledge and competence. This statement is used by many others in different contexts. So far, changing governments have slightly taken the consequences of this in district and regional policy. Looking at today's so-called demographic changes, displacement patterns, age composition, level of knowledge, etc., we find a clear link between education and population growth. The highest growth in the population is also seen in those parts of the country with the best educational attainment. If we go deeper into the material, we will find an almost as clear link between the educational level of the population and the number of start-ups – what we often call innovation and entrepreneurship. This is particularly true in so-called knowledge-based production and provision of services, just as it is a growth industry. 1 in Norway today, and which will be even more so in the coming years. It is therefore very nice to see that this government and the Council of State in their presentation on regional policy place considerable emphasis on increased entrepreneurial research and development, increased knowledge dissemination and access to higher education in District Norway, including increased emphasis on better quality and entrepreneurship in schools, as important instruments of regional and regional policy. Knowledge-based business will in the future be even more localised to our coastal areas and districts. It concerns maritime activities, oil and gas activities, marine farming, biotechnology production, and not least the export industry, tourism. All these growth industries require more research and knowledge on everything from language and culture through subjects such as pharmacy and biology to technical innovation and development of hitherto unknown and new products. The potential and potential for all this creation, employment and growth are largely found in District Norway. If we are to succeed in triggering this enormous potential, the creative forces must be released. The reasons must be stimulated and kept a fair share of their value creation without being suffocated by regulators and a killing tax and tax level. All experience and research shows that development, establishment and growth come from within – from the individual person, enterprise, community and region. It is therefore time that we now have a different district policy, which takes into account the actual trends and changes in society, and which introduces measures that in a completely different way focus on knowledge, competence and research as pillars of regional policy. In addition, the Government proposes special tax incentives for R & D targeted at small enterprises. This could be a new important tool in addition to good infrastructure, including broadband and different ICT solutions. The Council of State report presents a more positive regional and regional policy than previous governments have ever had. This is absolutely necessary. Glow, enthusiasm, creativity and desire to live and work in the districts are one of the best drivers of positive development. The Labour Party and the S, which today appear to be some of the Government's strongest critics in the area of regional policy, despite the fact that both parties have actually participated in all governments with few exceptions after the war, have had a significant influence on the policies that have been pursued and that have resulted from the poor results that they are criticising today. It's tempting to ask, what are your options? So far, few – if any – answers, even today. Distribution of higher education and research results from universities and colleges can be usefully incorporated as an important element of the Government's continued commitment to business and incubator activities. This will enable the most necessary better linkage between research and business environments, especially smaller enterprises in the local environment concerned, while at the same time reaching new parts of the population with the provision of higher education. The more targeted use of regional policy instruments by the government, such as R & D, skills development and innovation, where the efforts and instruments of different departments are taken into account and coordinated, allows us to re-growth and development in our regions. Stimulating and further developing what is going well, rather than artificially extending life to activities that do not have the right to life, should be our new regional policy guide. The fact that SV is disappointed should be taken as a compliment rather than as a criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1186	I must admit that the handout of the Minister of Local Affairs was both discouraging and dramatic. We can confirm that this government is giving up the districts. I had not expected anything else from the Right, but when the Left and Christian People's Party are on this, one in many ways keeps their voters fooled. In the state budget, regional food development funds were dramatically cut. The SND framework was drastically reduced and municipal food funds were removed. That's the same thing about the anti-spam thing. Transfers to agriculture were cut by 300 million. six-monthly kr. The appointment of the Minister of Local Affairs sign this pattern. Now it is said with clear words that it is no longer a goal to keep up the composition of the regions. Instead, it is expressed that there should be a balance between parts of the country. That would mean that if, for example, The growth in southern, central parts of Uppland and Hedmark compensates for the population decline in the Gudbrand valley, Valdres and Østerdalen, yes, the government is satisfied. The policy pursued by the Government is more decentralised centralisation than district policy. We can't accept this. It must be an objective to sustain settlements, cultural landscapes and living settlements around Norway. It has a value in itself, but it is also a commitment to exploit our natural resources and create the necessary values in this country. A country that does not bet on living settlements is becoming poorer in every way. We see the results of a lack of rural policy in other countries, where we meet a growing community and house that rots down. So far we've been able to largely prevent this in Norway. Now we see, however, that many municipalities and regions have entered a negative circle with a decline in population and with the disappearance of private and public services. At a time of strong urbanisation and centralisation, we therefore need strong countermeasures. Therefore, regional and regional policy issues should have been discussed in an offensive way, in terms of how they can turn this around and what tools are needed. There's plenty of themes here. Overall, good regional economic development, new activities and new jobs need to be created as a substitute for the reduction of existing business. This must stimulate government policy. The coast includes: a potential in the marine sector. Inland has opportunities within the second growth potential, what we can call knowledge-intensive and technology-based businesses. Travel life is growing, but it also depends on living settlements. We have a resource in the water force. We have opportunities with a much more offensive industrial policy. I agree with what it says that the growth force must come from below. But if one is to be closed, government policy must play on layers. We need to invest in research and education as a driving force, and a much better interaction between research, education and local business. We need to create a development environment in cities and regional centres as motors in the regions. That's right. But we also need to have decentralised education and developmental environments. There are many good product ideas that are never realized as business because a lack of capital and competence. Therefore, both the access to capital and the guidance device must be strengthened. In such a situation, it would be pointless to downgrade SND, which can contribute to it. There is also reason to recall that we have a rural policy objective with agricultural policy. We want agriculture not only to produce food in this country, but also to sustain settlements, cultural landscapes and living communities. This goal will never be achieved by any major structuralization. If this is to be the goal, we need a small-scale agriculture and measures to improve the profitability of this agriculture. A seat for living territory is good communication. Then we must be willing to bet on, among other things. collective provision even where it is not economically viable. Broadband must be built throughout the country. One cannot only base the build-up of profitability and competition, as it is called in the distribution. However, either through concessional conditions to the actors or through their own funding, the State must ensure that the most vulnerable areas are also covered. Cultural provision and access to public services are crucial for the construction. Yes, there are enough measures to be taken here. The challenges of relocation are now so great that we need a conscious strategy and concrete action rather than vague goals and beautiful words. We simply need a national action plan. The government's district policy so far creates hardly optimism and threat to the future in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1212	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's so far drawn seven speakers. The President will not dampen the enthusiasm, but will nevertheless draw the Storting's attention to the fact that weather conditions do not make evening meetings particularly attractive. The President won't say any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1217	In the distribution, the Council of State said that it would be a goal for the Government to defuse a development in which the Oslo region continues to grow ‘far faster than — and at the expense of — the rest of the country’. Yes, that's commendable. But when there is no match between theory and practice, such as lack of means to achieve this goal, these words are scrambled by the municipal minister in my ears. More and Romesdal is one of the foremost states in value creation. It's enough to refer to keywords like fish, breeding, gas, oil and furniture. But if we are to have growth and value creation, we also need new jobs – and tomorrow’s jobs are being created today. Now we have to plan what we're going to live on in the next few years. And the potential lies in the districts. What did the businesses have to do with a state like More and Romsdal without SND? Or, to quote the newly elected central government member of the Right, Jens Petter Ekorenes, as he pronounced it to the Sunnmare post: ‘The proposal from the government to cut the appropriations for the SND is a short and well-known disaster. – I fear that this is just the beginning of a rage of SND as a driving force in the economic development of rural areas.” Those are strong words. This is a vision that the Center Party fully shares, and I hope that the same Jens Petter Ekorenes can get through to the Right Central Government for his vision. Contrary to what the representative of the Christian People's Party says, reactions from my party have shown that there is a strong need for SND. For the districts are living settlements alpha and omega. The closure of horticulture leads to large-scale settlements, which in turn raise concerns about travel life. What would famous tourist destinations like Geiranger and the Troll Trail have been without a well-kept cultural landscape? What is now happening in the districts should be a serious warning also for the Cooperation Government. Another area that is important for an offensive district policy is to focus on transport measures. In More and Romesdal, we have night-time tribal and national road links. The size of the ferry frequency target in 30 minutes is not met. During 2001, over 11 000 cars were on a ferry section! Racial distances create fear among parents who send their children to school, while putting obstacles in the way of business in the county. An active district policy requires more than fine words — it requires action. Not least, SND and communication are two of the most important pillars of a successful district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1238	When I heard the opposition party's first comments to the municipal minister's statement on district and regional policy, it sounded like now that the government will gather everyone in a city and turn their backs. Since I was not in the hall, I had to read the details. And what did I find there as a example of this disaster that we've heard about today? Yes, I found that the government said it will strengthen the municipal economy, which has already been done today in the revised national budget of 1.6 billion kroner. She wants entrepreneurship in education. She wants to increase the rate of trade to trigger the growth potential in the whole country. It will have an offensive localisation policy of government tasks, as it has already shown in practice, and will have specific measures against local communities and regions with less growth potential. Not enough: It will have special measures against municipalities that are subject to special closures. This is the example of what's in the distribution. And then I have to say that after hearing a lot of what has been said here today – with respect to reporting – I believe that many of those who have had the word cannot have read what it says. They've been talking a lot about other things. In part, I believe that they have said things that they wanted to say, so that they could attack especially the Christian People's Party. After all, we're getting 'down with the collar' all the time away from questions that the parties are asking each other to criticize the Christian People's Party. Let me then make it clear: we want to conduct in government, as in opposition, an offensive district policy – a central district policy. I have been among those who have been reasonably critical to the Right over the years, and who follow Right closely as our partner in the Government. For this message, I will give a good character to the Right Minister – the Minister of Cooperation. It will not be the wording of this statement that puts down District Norway, but there are questions about what political power we can put behind in order to achieve the good objective that lies there. Let me also say that I believe that outside this house this will not partly remarkable hacking on each other to build District Norway. People expect us, as we are at Stortinget, to be able to cooperate and be constructive. That seems to me to be lacking in the debate today. It has been a hacking of things that are not in the distribution, but as one dictates, the thoughts in it are – instead of taking the Minister of Municipal Affairs and Government seriously and going straight to the goals and directions that lie there. If you read it carefully – and I have – it is hardly possible to create a document that mentions the districts and district policies in positive and offensive terms. Mi challenge is: Let us work together – and not construct unnecessary criticism! That doesn't work in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1251	When a journey through Sweden and Finland, especially in the northern parts of the country, sees what we in Norway mean by using the whole country. Norway has largely managed to maintain the settlement throughout the country — unlike Northern Sweden and Northern Finland, which are quite desolate, with miles of forest. This has been a wild policy in Norway. If it's still going to be a wild policy, I'm not sure – with a Right-Steering Bondevik government. When even the right-wing rapporteurs in the districts say they're scared about the government and what the government is doing in the district policy, I have to interpret it so that the government doesn't intend to bet so much on the districts. It does not help small agglomerations if the government now departs from the goal, which is to maintain the settlement throughout the country. Reinforcement of parts of the country will have major consequences for the smallest municipalities. This will strengthen the flow of migration to the Central East. Maybe Tromsø, as the capital of northern Norway, will get a certain rise in the population. But it's now so that when conditions get so difficult that people see themselves having to move, they like not to move to the nearest town or town, but from the part of the country. I would say that the regional and regional policy statement shows a policy of centralisation. We know that the Bondevik government in the budget cut in SND funds, in municipal food funds, in the contribution to fuel and in the transfers to agriculture. These were instruments that too many small businesses meant a bee or not. In the districts, innovation and development must always be thought of, and it is one-man businesses and small businesses that need this support for their creation. Fisheries, aquaculture, agriculture, industry and service industries depend entirely on good transport solutions and good infrastructure. We're struggling with this in Northernland. It was not better when the Minister for Transport made proposals to open up an express bus that could run parallel to the line between Trondheim and Bodø, while at the same time creating considerable uncertainty about the justification of the Nordlandsbanen in the future. Why don't we either rust up the railroad, when we know how bad E6 really is? And what about the environment? What kind of signals does this give to people and to business? Do we dare bet? I would say that the statement contains a few clear answers as to what value creation is expected, among other things. in North Norway. Action is urgent. And what about all the jobs that the government has said are going out of Oslo? It's not enough with the District Commission. It's all right, but don't let it become a sleep cushion for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1266	The next speaker is Kenneth Svendsen and then – as the last recorded speaker – Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1269	What is a district? What characterizes a district? Well, that's the distance to the market. What a district suffers from is distance costs – the cost of transporting the goods produced, to the market, the cost to the individual of entering the centres, of transporting the children to football training, for tournaments, for music teaching, for acting, etc. The NHO has found that the cost of transporting goods is 50 pst. higher in Norway than in EU countries. This comes from the study of a high level of charges, of poor standards on the road network and of poor maintenance – leading to closed mountain passes, excursions, waiting in queues, tolls, etc., etc. The paradox is that several – from both the Workers' Party and the Right – have been up here talking about distance costs, but nothing is being done. I thought in my simplicity that Storting's task was to remove these extra costs for business. Yes, it should be a task for the Stortinget to lower the charges while at the same time cancelling the debts for the toll stations, as has been done for the Gardermoban – and, finally, a large-scale road construction and increased maintenance of the road network, so that the cost to business of transporting goods to the market is 50 pst. lower than in EU countries. Only then have we made it possible for business to establish itself and – not least – to exist in District Norway. If we're going to have a living District Norway, the point is that it has to pay off for business and people living in the districts. The most logical thing would be to lower the distance costs, but it didn't smell the majority. It seems to me that district policy for individual parties in this room is more money for the municipalities and SND. I don't know if the president has registered any municipalities that have moved to the central eastern region. I don't. On the other hand, I have registered several individuals who have moved from District Norway to central district. They have done so primarily because they have lacked work. Therefore, efforts must be made towards individuals in order to obtain this work. The solution proposed by industry in District Norway itself is better and cheaper roads and lower diesel taxes. But do they get it? The simple answer is no. When we look at the investments and the maintenance costs over the last 10-12 years, they are lower than 12 years ago. The diesel price is about as it was before the tax was reduced, because the profit has been eaten up by higher oil prices, which would have been avoided if the Progress Party's proposal on stable fuel prices had become a fact. Finally, the majority in this room – the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right – have tried their medicine for years, with more and more deportation as a result. Then it is not useful to wash up with more wrong medicine. There's got to be a new medicine to – that's ours!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1289	It can be confirmed that the President has not registered any municipalities that have the power to move themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1292	The centre party's starting point is that the soil, forest, sea, hydropower and oil and gas resources are still to form the basis for the development of jobs and settlement throughout the country. Travel, shipping and communication technologies are examples of industries that can be exploited even more for the better distribution of work between city and country. Better balance between districts and central districts will also reduce the pressure problems in big cities and give new growth to the districts. To those who regard the districts as a single major expenditure item, I would recommend a reprisal of the NRK programme ‘Sogn and Fjordane – Norway’. An increased effort actually means a return of funds to a greater extent than today compared to the heavy resources that the districts provide to the big society. The ambition of maintaining the main features of the construction pattern is for us a much more offensive starting point than the government council Solberg had when she presented the statement. She said in the Political Quarter: ‘This means that for the next 20 years, the objective of settlement should be to create balanced growth between the parts of Norway and it is a huge task in itself.’... ‘But we are going to redefine what has been the old settlement goal, namely that we should have spread settlement across the country, or maintain the pattern of settlement in the main as it is today. We believe that it is unrealistic in the future to be able to achieve that." From that there is a surprising retreat today from the Christian People's Party and the Left. We want to challenge the government in three areas: For the first infrastructure, both the standard lifting and repair of the national and county road network, the follow-up of race protection plans already under way, reduced ferry tariffs and State involvement in broadband deployment where the market is not strong enough to secure this. Secondly, under this reduced inheritance tax and document tax, a tax system that prefers capital that remains in the enterprises, and a strengthening of SND, SIVA and municipal nutrition funds. Thirdly, the possibility of a greater public effort in schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly in all municipalities in this country. Municipalities shall be efficient and service-oriented. After the revised budget today, more than the third that has already been announced in the municipal budget must actually do so in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1312	It might not have been necessary to take the word several times, but after the last speeches – now I am thinking in particular of the representative Rudihagen, the representative Torny Pedersen and now the last representative Meltveit Kleppa of the Center Party – we are back to the kind of district policy that belongs to the 1970s. And that's what's part of the problem. One should try to think a little offensively and positively in relation to district policy, which I hope and believe the Government will do through the explanation that lies here. Instead of talking about the municipalities, we have to talk about the inhabitants of the municipalities. Instead of talking about the existence of the county municipality, we need to talk about the inhabitants of each region. Instead of talking about SND and employees, we need to talk about developing business. Instead of talking about bureaucracy in the road offices, we need to talk about roads. This is where we have the problem of getting an impact on a new course in district policy. So it is now proven today that the Workers' Party and the Centre are becoming very conservative in their thinking. I am recording that the representative Meltveit Kleppa had many great challenges for the Government at the end of his post that the Progress Party has no problem with being part of. But the problem is that they are going to continue with the same kind of measures that have been practised and tried for ten years and that have proved to be a failure. Another thing: when the representative Rudihagen talks about housing, it again connects with small-scale farming. Why can we not listen to those who are involved in agriculture, the producers in agriculture, who do not want that kind of development, but who want to have simpler legislation and opportunities to expand within the market, within the industry they can, so that the farmer himself can be proud of what he is doing? What the Center Party stands for is an obstacle to exactly that development. The representative Pedersen clarifies and in a way puts something negative in that people move. Basically, the Workers' Party says that people have to be allowed to live where they want to, that's important. But if people do it and move because they want to live somewhere else, it's going to be wrong. We have to recognise that people in this country have some freedom of choice left, and we must at least not take away what little they have left, but rather make sure to strengthen it. And that's what we do by letting people's needs and want to have a greater impact than taking into account bureaucracy and an even more thriving public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1323	Once again the last recorded speaker – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1327	I'm recording the mild outburst in the President's advertisement. I have registered that the representative Inge Wohnning has also sometimes taken the word at the end of a debate that he thought was important, and where others have had more speaking time. There are some interesting features to this debate today that would also allow for the strengthening of the districts. Some of this actually comes from the representative Per Sandberg. He advocates stronger bets on the road. I live in a district where I see that individuals give up. There is a national road through several counties, Rv 13, which unfortunately has not been allocated the most necessary resources, despite the fact that there are vacant plant equipment and people available before this sector. I hope that a multiple can be established at Stortinget, where the Central Party is involved, in order to strengthen road construction as a basis for a larger settlement in the districts. Then I register that the Progress Party will call for a fund to assist entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. Let me remind you that SND was supposed to be a state's nutrition and district development fund. Now let's jointly press on the Government so that they follow up with funds, but in a way that makes the funds used in the districts. A proposal has been distributed in the Chamber today, to which the Progress Party can join, in order to achieve this. And if the Christian People's Party stands for what they've stood for before, there would be certain possibilities in that area. So Per Sandberg says we have to listen to the producers before agriculture. I am very surprised that the Progress Party has not registered the large connection of agricultural organisations to producers. They are asking for an agriculture that offers opportunities beyond the densely populated areas, also to be able to continue producing clean and safe food. When it comes to broadband, I have a challenge for the government in the end, because I think it's highly unclear which government council Solberg actually says. If you want to, the government will strengthen your broadband effort and participate outside the 75 pst. of the country that the market can take?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1340	The representative is quite right that the president's admonition to show moderation was very mild, perhaps too mild. In the meantime, the representative Sandberg has signed up for a new post. The representative Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1343	Thank you, President. Otherwise, I share the representative Meltveit Kleppa's refs – to put it that way – in relation to the President's involvement in previous debates. But what was important to me now was: if the Central Party really believes anything about investing in transport and road, they will have no problem getting support from the Progress Party in that regard. The point is that the Progress Party has been in charge of such a policy for ten years, while the Centre Party has not wanted to participate in it. But if there's a change in the Center Party, there should be no problem with either Rogaland or other states. But then we have to take a lift that's shown, and not with a coin, to put it straight out. In the case of SND, yes, it's some of the same model we're working on, but then we want to get away from bud shooting. It is not useful to rely on jobs in the districts by having an individual receive NOK 15 000 in order to establish an enterprise on their own farm or in their own household. We have to bet more. When it comes to farmers, the farmers themselves, I listen to them. I'm not listening to Værdal. The farmers I am in contact with want a simplification of the system, so that they can participate in the competition and further develop the production they are producing, for example through greater opportunities for co-operation, which the Centre Party is opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1354	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2600]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1369	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1372	Today, the size manages an important matter for those added to the petroleum sector. The Storing Message has been received well from both employer and employee sides. It should have been a good process in advance of this message. As you can see, there has also been a good process in the committee's work on the message. In addition, the work has provided us with a better insight into the petroleum industry, and as we have seen, we have been given a presentation of today's situation that has given us much learning in the area of health, environment and safety. Before the Committee's work was finished, the setting was presented to the Energy and Environment Committee. The Committee is essentially in agreement with the general situation referred to by the message. It also applies to the measures proposed. The Committee agrees that there has been a flare of security levels in recent years and that there has been a negative development in some areas. Petroleum industries have been a leading industry in Norwegian industry in both the 1980s and 1990s in many ways. When it comes to the area of safety and the working environment, employee organisations have been strong drivers in this work. It has also led to the fact that land-based industries have seen this industry as an example in their work in this area. In recent years, we have seen negative developments in areas such as health, the environment and security. Therefore, this setting will be characterised by a clearer focus on this work, in other words, by requirements and not least by the responsibility of the industry and authorities in relation to demands for continuous improvement. Since this is the first message of such an extent since 1993, the message and setting will be important and valuable documents in the future. In order to keep a strong focus on this work, a collusion committee wants the Storting to receive such a message more frequently than has been the case to this day. In this context, we are asking the Government to promote a roll-out message on the state of the petroleum industry every four years. The oil industry has undergone major and extensive change processes and reorganisations in the 1990s. In addition, there has been an increasing level of activity as a result of new developments. This has been a major activity on the maintenance side, and the technical problems have also been a challenge. Nor can it be ignored that large fluctuations in the activity level also contribute to the weight of attention at the HMT level. This applies both in the supplier industry and in the petroleum industry in general. As I said, the Committee is essentially in favour of the content of the Single European Act. Therefore, I shall confine myself to mentioning areas where the plural wants improvements, or areas that the Committee believes should have a stronger focus. Chapter 7 of the Single European Sky Communication sets out the scope and measures to be taken. The Ministry has presented seven concrete measures here. I'll comment on these a little bit closer. Firstly, the Ministry proposes to establish a new ‘Best Practice Forum’. The intention of this is good, but the committee agrees with this. I'll briefly explain why. We are of course a few in that it is important to have a forum, a collaborative venue, to exchange secrets between the different actors. Nevertheless, as we approach such an establishment, it is related to the fear that such a large forum will not function particularly well. Therefore, the Committee believes that this can best be achieved through the continuation of «Safety Cooperation», the work of NORSOK and not least through systematic cooperation on the established standards and the development of new guidelines between the parties. When it comes to the area of deforestation, sick leave and ageing, the Committee agrees with the measures proposed by the Ministry. The proposal outlines a solution whereby the practical discussions and implementation of actions are followed up in the ‘Aging and Health’ cooperation project and by the establishment of a part-time selection to address the wider issues. And this, in the Committee's view, is gratifying in the first place. When it comes to the issue of employee representation in the licensing committees, the Committee is divided. A plurality, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, means that the employees should be represented in these committees. We think this will be a good thing for the HMT work and not least for corporate democracy. The majority believe that the practical challenges facing this issue need to be solved by the Working Party under the Security Forum, which is to address this issue in the light of legal rights and lessons learned from the operation, without conflicting with the work being done by the Labour Law Committee. It's a little bit of a shame that the majority of the committee doesn't reflect in a plural here in the hall, but it's not too late to turn around. When it comes to the item on the follow-up of working time, the Committee has chosen the review given in the message. However, I would like to stress that long periods of work can be a security risk, and I would point out that the protection issue has an important role to play in ensuring that work is carried out in a defence way. In addition, the government proposes to establish a permanent investigation commission for the petroleum sector. This Commission shall investigate or investigate serious or near-industry accidents. The Committee is satisfied with such an establishment but will not now decide whether to organise it in a commission of its own or whether it is more reasonable to establish it in a joint accident commission, if any. Research and development is an important area. Developments in the sector pose major challenges for the use of new technological equipment, and not least for health, environmental and security research. It is therefore important that both the state and industry follow up with funds, so that long-term projects can be carried on. In the case of changes and coordination measures on the authority side, the Government indicates that they wish to assess a full review of the Oil Directorate during 2002. The Committee is in favour of this. In this context, it is important not only that the companies in the industry make recordings, but also that they add their organisations to be taken on board. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that the Ojedirektoratet is given responsibility for coordinating the supervision of farms and believes that the transport part must be part of the overall supervision. A majority, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, also point to a more visible oversight, and in this way focus on the Oil Directorate’s competence and economic situation. This is important, so that the Oil Directorate is better able to carry out its oversight and also to increase its activity. In the case of the SUT, ‘Conformity Opinion for removable devices’, all feedback indicates that it has been successful. In addition, it has ensured better regulatory competence in the industry. A number of the Committee propose that this scheme be made compulsory, and that it be fully supported by the Energy and Environment Committee of a co-consultant. I am therefore surprised to note that the government parties in the Municipal Committee do not share the view of their party traps in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. How does this relate, we might get answers later in the debate. I hope, as I said, that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will reverse the vote. But in any case, I am pleased that the Progress Party has now changed its vision and made it clear that the SUT will be made compulsory. The stuttering message indicates that the protection ombudsman scheme does not always work after the purpose. Among other things, the Committee has received feedback that local protection services have little impact and involvement in conversion processes. The Directorate of Oil has registered the same thing through supervision. Furthermore, low status has been achieved, and the chances of a career may be reduced. The majority in the committee believe that practice here needs to be changed. Many people have been busy with the accommodation conditions on the base. The message clearly states that there is a security problem if they do not get enough recovery and sleep. In addition, the message says that accommodation conditions have worsened in recent years. The Committee believes that it is important that everyone should be allowed to sleep alone, and asks the Directorate of Oil to follow this up as a central point of its supervision. For many years now, the social partners have been working to establish an own professional letter for crane drivers. Too many accidents have occurred in connection with crane and lifting operations. Today one crane driver gets two to three weeks of training, and this is too bad. The establishment of a peer-reviewed system will represent an important step forward, and the Committee will ask for this work to be carried out, and that as a new subject, the medical profession will be in place as soon as it is advisable – by 2003 at the latest. The average age of mobile devices on the Norwegian base is now approaching 20 years. The committee believes that this does not mean that the devices are bad and dangerous. There is no evidence that there is a correlation between age and safety if maintenance has been good. I see, however, that this may be a long-term problem, but that long-term contracts for the owners of rigging can be with and reverse this development. The work on this big message must not create the impression that you are now satisfied with the work that has been done. The aim must be to examine the status of the HMT work now and to ensure that the authorities thus require the industry to intensify its work, and not least to strengthen its supervision. Only this message will be a positive contribution to your development in the future. I welcome this recommendation from the Committee and also the minority proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1421	The representative, Opbebøen Hansen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1424	I can confirm the rapporteur's statement that there is a broad and cross-political consensus in the Municipal Committee on the content of St.meld. No 7, on health, environment and safety in the petroleum sector. This is, as already mentioned, the first communication of such an extent since 1993, addressing trends, legislation and supervision, specific issues in the field of HMS, cooperation between authorities and parties, areas of activity and administrative and economic consequences. The notification is a brief review of the health, environmental and safety situation of the petroleum industry. This area is becoming increasingly important. Equipment is ageing, technology is improving, and the requirements for more efficient operation increasingly require both actors, employees and supervisory authorities. The industry itself is responsible for HMS actions, and the Ministry also expresses its satisfaction with the commitment to implement them. So it's an overall committee that essentially supports the recommendations contained in the communication. But there are a couple of points that split. One is the view on the issue of employee representation in the licensing committees. From the right, I think it is important to stress that this is a question that needs to be seen in the context of other forms of employee involvement. There are many problems of principle and pragmatism in employee representation in licensing committees. That is why the Right and the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party agree on a remark that we will not conclude on this issue until a separate working group has been set up that has gone through the whole problem and discussed employee participation on a broad basis. In this context, it is particularly important that such a working group be given the mandate to take the necessary action. Nor is it relevant from the Right to support the minority proposal of the Workers' Party and SV on the change in employee representation in shipowners' boards. We assume that employees have the representation and influence of law and regulation. In addition, the Right will vote for the three items which constitute the Committee's decision-making position here in the Storting, including point II on the SUT scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1435	It is very worrying that over the last two to three years, the overall level of risk on Norwegian pedestal has been found to be increasing. This has happened even though there has been a clear reduction in the level of risk, if we see this over a longer period of 15-30 years. The reason for this negative trend in HMS in the petroleum industry in recent years is, among other things, according to the Storing Communication. the many and extensive processes of change that have been carried out in the 1990s. The Communication refers to the implementation of both organisational, technological and operational efficiencies without a sufficient focus on the impact of these efficiencies on health, the environment and safety. In addition, there are indications that non-compliance with the requirements of the applicable HMS legislation is an contributing factor to the reduced level of safety. On this basis, the Progress Party is very positive that a separate big message has been promoted that discusses this important theme. Norwegian petroleum activities appeared in the 1980s as a precursor industry in health, environment and safety. This occurred after Norwegian petroleum industry had lost great confidence, first at the Bravo blasting in Ekofisk in 1977, where 15 000 tonnes of oil contaminated the North Sea, and then in 1980 when the most serious accident that has hit the petroleum industry on Norwegian soil occurred, when «Alexander L. Kielland» crashed and 123 people died. These dramatic events contributed to a strong focus on safety and the working environment in the North Sea in the 1980s. The result of this intensive work on increased safety in the North Sea was the building of a high level of expertise in the field of HMS – an HMS competence that is likely to be significantly greater in the petroleum industry than it is in other Norwegian industries today. The negative trend was reversed at the time after these serious events, and the safety results on Norwegian pedestal have therefore been positive in the last 20 years, despite the fact that the North Sea activity is often a dangerous and tough job. But this positive HMS development over the last 20 years may also have become a sleep cushion. At the end of the 1990s, it was claimed, as is well known by more and more teams, that security was no longer as high a priority as it had been in the past. An increasing number of near-misses and undesirable situations were reported. It all peaked in the summer of 2000 when the trade unions learned that safety was no longer as good as it had been before. This brought the Oil Directorate strongly to the ground, and a positive dialogue was established between the parties, which has once again provided the basis for a better understanding of the safety performance of the petroleum industry in the future. In this context, it is positive that the Government and the Storting should clarify, through this Communication, the objectives of the further development in the health, environmental and safety fields of the petroleum activities on a Norwegian base. All batches agree that the objective must be for the petroleum industry to be a precursor industry in the HMS work, which is obviously both enjoyable and positive. It is also commendable that the Ministry, through close cooperation with the employers' and employees' side, as well as with individual actors, has sought to identify the problems that have arisen in order to put in place the appropriate measures to bring the HMS work back into the role it deserves. It is also sensible to re-launch and strengthen cooperation and employee participation in order to ensure and develop supervisory and regulatory models that are up-to-date with technological and operational developments. It is absolutely reasonable to suggest that knowledge development and investment in the HMS field must follow technological developments, so that HMS efforts can keep pace with the continuous conversion work that one must expect to take place in the oil industry at all times. The serious human and social consequences of major accidents call for a strong and sustained focus on HMS in all areas and at all stages of North Sea activity. The fact that the main responsibility for HMS is placed with the employer and operators is, of course, quite correct, but also the individual employee must be held responsible for the success of turning the negative HMS trend over the last few years. A system of sanctions with a varied structure of instruments is therefore essential. Persistent breaches of applicable HMS legislation shall and must therefore have consequences for both operators and workers. Strict use of sanctioning agents is an effective instrument for accountability and prevention. The point of progress concerns the establishment of a high level of safety in Norwegian petroleum activities, both in relation to the economic importance for the country, in relation to the risk posed by the petroleum activity and not least in relation to the safety of the individual worker. The Party considers that maintaining a very high level of safety in the petroleum industry contributes to the prevention of the risk of major accidents and to the reduction of the risk of injury and fatal accidents among employees and others working on Norwegian pedestals. With regard to licensing committees and employee participation there, I would like briefly to add that, in principle, I am not necessarily against it, but we have taken the position that a working group must first look at this. Then we'll see what it comes to and take a final position. At any rate, for the reasons I have explained, the party of progress will agree with and recommend the content of this big business message on safety in Norwegian petroleum activities in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1461	A year and a half ago, SV promoted a private proposal in Stortinget to get a separate communication on health, environment and safety in the oil industry. We did that because we saw that there were major accidents, and because we received many reports that safety was not good enough. Today we have received this message. It's good, and it gets the majority, and it's SV very happy. We now believe that the employees on the base can expect a safer everyday life ahead, and that the quality of the production there will also receive a quality stamp that is very important to them. There was too little focus on safety, and there was too little cooperation. Work until notification has led to better cooperation and greater security. Therefore, it is important that now that you have finally received a message, you do not slip back to old tracks and do not continue the work that is now well started. This is why it is important to get a separate communication on this issue every four years, to which the entire committee has joined. It is also important that we now look at the good philosophy that we want no accidents to happen. It's an ambitious goal, but I really don't think you can have any other goal, especially in a sector where the risk has to be minimal, because the danger is so infinite if it goes wrong first. That's why it's right to have such a philosophy. Security is a good store. Good health, good environment and good safety must therefore be taken into account throughout the process. During the work on this message, we have, among other things: have been confronted with a slogan which is apparently widely spoken in English, but which in Norwegian reads as follows: If you think safety is expensive, try an accident. This I think is a good reminder. All security work is really about paying for something wrong not to happen. It makes all such work easy to relax if things go well. That's how we are people, and that's how it is in industries. An important consequence of this is that the SV and the majority now believe that there is also a need to increase control activities, combined with good self-control systems. If the risk of being discovered if you make mistakes is not present or minimal, it is unfortunately such that things are relaxed. In all areas, it's like this. It is therefore necessary both to increase control activities and to strengthen supervisory bodies, but it is equally important that the protection service is strengthened. It is complicated and demanding to do good protection and health, environmental and safety work in the oil sector. It is then important that all the parties involved and taking the great responsibility to get this in place have good conditions and can carry out their important task. And the self-control involved in having a good protection service, and the fact that you are also involved from the workers' side in competing for the best in health, the environment and safety, I think is a driving force that you should not underestimate. SV has considered that employees should also be included in the licensing committees. This is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV agree and go in for. It's disappointing that we haven't got a majority for this. The base would have earned that the employees had been included. There's a lot going on in the licenses. This could have contributed to the fact that the trade mark as security could have become even stronger in this sector. Then we were very happy when the Committee on Energy and the Environment made its comment on our discussion in the Municipal Committee. They gave full support to the important view of the majority of the municipal committee that the SUT should become mandatory. It's important, and I'm very happy that it now seems to be a unanimous big thing that joins this. Then I am also pleased that during the process we have managed to agree that cooperation for security should be continued and expanded, that these are the arrangements that have now proved to be good in practice, and that the industry has developed and wants to work with the organisations, we are strengthening, and that we are also putting in place the actors in this industry that have not yet been in these committees. It is very important that they also find their place within this system and use it as an appropriate device. So finally, one of the funny aspects of this has been the right to sleep alone. It may sound a little funny, but I think that all those who have experienced a snoring problem close to themselves know that this can go on both the nerves, the night sleep, the mood and the concentration loose. It is important that a principle has been established when it comes to this. Workers on the base need to be outsleep and have all the senses ready when working in this industry where the safety margins are so small. SV also promises to continue working with certainty on the base, among other things. the requirement for full radar coverage for helicopter traffic, which is now not affected by the notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1484	The case-speaker has said the most important thing in this case, and the Committee is essentially behind it. But I would like to make a few comments, and then I would like to stress that the oil adventure for us who live on the coast has also stood out as an adventure for health, environment and safety, even if there have been some major accidents. The safety of the North Sea has stood out as a model for industry, too, and it should be lacking, because the fort is adventurous, to become in the image, when we talk about the black gold of the sea, and every little accident on the base can easily develop into a disaster. The introduction of a zero philosophy is therefore important. It assumes that accidents do not occur but are caused and can therefore be prevented. So the goal is zero damage and zero accidents. This naturally implies a continuous focus on risk management, prevention and learning. It is important that industry in the future, as in the past, should be in the forefront of security and the working environment, and that we do not accept an experienced setback in the HMS area, as one has so far done. We actually require a little bit more of the petroleum industry. The operation in the North Sea shall be an example of land-based activity and it shall be safe to work on the base. Therefore, the Storting also wants to be close to development, and there is a joint committee that asks the Government to promote a growth message about the HMS state of the petroleum sector every four years. As has been seen in the statements of the President of the case, there is a big deal in this setting. There are only a few areas where there is a certain divergence, and the one divergence goes far through the parties that form government. In the opinion of the Energy and Environment Committee, the Government Party also requests that the SUT scheme be compulsory. Now this is not a real difference of opinion; also in the comments of the Municipal Committee, the government party shows that the SUT system seems to work well. But the Right Party and the Christian People's Party think we have time to wait for the evaluation that was announced for the scheme, and that was to be finished at the end of this year. But when the plural does not want to wait, but wants to take a stand now, I see no reason to vote against a plural decision of such a nature. I therefore recommend that the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the proposal for a mandatory SUT order today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1493	On 18 April this year, the Directorate of Oil presented a study in which 3310 offshore workers answered questions of well-being and fear of work. 37 pst. 41 pst. considered that the scope of production concerns health, environmental and safety work. Still more people said they were working even if they were tired, 37 pst. said they were plagued by musculoskeletal disorders, 16 pst. of hearing loss. The day before this presentation, there was a tragic fatal accident on the North Sea oil rig Biford Dolphin, a plumbing fall from the drilling tower. Puts the study in a very special relief. No mean the oil directorate that the negative trend that one saw on the base in 1999 and 2000 has reversed when it comes to health, the environment and security. Increased focus on security combined with better and trusting cooperation between the partners in the industry seems to be the most positive development, called it in the press release from the Directorate. That's good. The center party thinks that St.meld. No However, 7 and its treatment have shown that there is still a need to keep an ever-increasing focus on safety. The Oil Directorate's last investigation and their comments underline the same. The Committee has had an in-depth discussion of this message. We have been visiting the Oil Directorate, we have been on the base, we have had hearings with representatives from employers and employees. On behalf of all of us, the case spokespersons have done a good and thorough job. From the Center Party, I will continue the following: We are pleased that a group of committees will have a big message about health, the environment and safety on the base every four years. It underscores Storting's desire to continue focusing on security. I would like the Council of State to express its wish to strengthen the budget of the Directorate of Oil when they are given new tasks in the form of strengthened supervision. We are pleased that the focus on having the possibility of a good night's sleep has resulted in a formulation that everyone should have the opportunity to sleep alone. We're also pleased that a multiple wants more long-term contracts for the owners of rigs. We are pleased that the focus is on trawl fishing within the insurance zone, and that it must be severely reduced, and we are pleased that the whole Storting will now make the SUT scheme mandatory. We are in charge of the Workers' Party and SV on employee participation in the licensing committees. From our point of view, it is an expression of the possibility of selecting companies with a high profile of health, environment and safety. We would also have liked the plurality to be broader than a plurality in the committee that would strengthen the protection system by researching so-called success criteria. We are surprised that the message does not entirely discuss the role of the emergency vessel. The size has recently requested that no changes be made which could lead to a weakening of safety, cork in the case of internal preparedness on the vessel or in the form of helicopters. Two standby vessels have been removed since the joint comitology comment was written in Stortinget. A Joint Committee of the Government is now asked to consider any measures to ensure that the emergency vessel is still a central element of the overall preparedness of the socket. For those of us who were out on Gullfak's C, it was made clear what an emergency vessel can mean both when it concerns the possibility of rapid evacuation and when it concerns the limitation that can be there in relation to the helicopter under difficult weather conditions, and that a standby vessel can also be a buffer against the forward vessel. Finally, it is underlined from the directorate and in the message that when a positive development is seen, it is primarily due to cooperation between all parties. I was somewhat fascinated by the new cooperation forum that was discussed in the message, but I see that it might have more to do to strengthen cooperation in the forums that have already been created.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1508	The President aims to complete the Grand Summit this morning, even if it would go a little beyond the regulatory time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1511	All those who have followed the development of the Norwegian petroleum base and who know the special working situation there appreciate the need for the very special safety requirements that must apply – and that apply – to this sector. Of course, safety and the working environment are of primary importance for individual workers in the North Sea. However, with the impact of the petroleum sector on the Norwegian economy, a high level of security — and the security against disruption of production in it — is also a good business economy and a good social economy. With the large values in production facilities and equipment, there is also a good insurance economy. Similarly, petroleum activities represent, in principle, such a latent threat to the physical environment that safety on the base is also a good environmental policy. Through the big message we have presented, we wanted to intervene and clarify these issues. At the same time, the government would stress the expectations that industry should focus on health, the environment and safety at all stages of its activity. The notification points to unacceptable and unfortunate developments, to action to be taken and to who is primarily responsible for implementing them. The Storing Communication clarifies the objectives of further development and makes industry and authorities responsible for the regulatory requirements for continuous improvement. I am very pleased that the Municipal Committee is largely in favour of the content and proposals for action in the Single European Act. It is essential that we have broad insights into the safety work on the socket, and that we have as common views as possible on the necessary measures. I also note that, in some areas, the Committee has a different or slightly different view of what the Government proposes. But I would like to stress that none of the areas where there is disagreement can be said to be fundamentally related to safety work. So once again, the consensus is the striking move here. Some of the comments and proposals of the Municipal Committee affect the responsibilities of other departments, and I would therefore like to communicate the Committee's comments to these departments. In relation to the specific recommendations made by the Committee, I have the following comments: I have received clear feedback that the work on the communication itself has contributed to creating new venues for dialogue and a more equal understanding of reality between the parties. Furthermore, work has helped to ensure a renewed focus on the HMS work and the HMS level in the sector. Therefore, in my view, the preparation of a large-scale report on the HMS work every four years will also contribute in itself to a continued and necessary focus in this area, both on the food and government side. So we're set to follow up this proposal. The Committee has been given a good impression of the established system by which the authorities decide whether a mobile drilling device and relevant parts of its management system comply with the legislation, i.e. the so-called SUT system. I share this positive idea of the plan. The majority of the Committee, and now the entire Committee as a whole, are in favour of making the scheme compulsory and for the Storting to take a decision on it. I'm taking it into account and I'm essentially very positive with the idea. However, I have to point out that a mandatory statement of compliance, or SUT, can provide a more closed market for rigging on a Norwegian base by allowing only those who have SUT to work here. The Ministry of State and the Directorate of Oil have worked in parallel with other State authorities in order to enable the authorities to mutually accept each other’s inspections and documentation, subject to certain specific requirements in each country. I would therefore have to clarify the formal aspects of a mandatory SUT scheme, including whether a mandatory scheme would comply with the rules of establishment of the EEA Agreement. This means that I will come back to Stortinget in connection with any legislative proposal or on another appropriate occasion where I can give an overall overview of how we can follow up the Stortinget decision and what restrictions may be in the EEA Agreement, or whether we have other limitations. The Storting Communication focuses on issues that industry needs to address, and I am pleased that the Committee supports these important measures. The development of the petroleum sector involves a closer integration of land and capping facilities. Increasingly, the focus is on the interface between the petroleum activity and its related activities. I am pleased that the Committee shares my view that the Oil Directorate should assume responsibility for the coordination of the supervision of farms, and that the Directorate should be given greater responsibility for supervision, including the ‘transport part’ of the establishment, i.e. helicopter and boat transport to and from the fields. In this context, I also refer to the review of all supervisory authorities that will take place this year, where the supervision of transport safety will also be included. The Communication highlights the need for a new and multi-annual commitment to research and development of competences. The store has previously agreed that 15 million was granted. kr for the financial year 2002. In addition, the budget of the Directorate-General for Oil has been strengthened in order to facilitate an increase in the level of competence. I have noticed that a majority of the Committee believes that more research is also needed in some HMS areas. I would like to stress that the responsibility for continuously identifying and implementing improvement measures lies first and foremost with the industry itself, especially with the individual operator and employer. The industry has the necessary detailed knowledge, the relevant decision-making authority and the necessary resources. The industry itself has the primary responsibility — and must have the primary responsibility — to take care of health, the environment and safety at all stages of its activity. The role of the authorities is and shall be to provide guidance and supervision which is additional to that of the operators themselves and which must and must be essentially risk-based and preventive. It is an important task that the authorities have in this regard, and I would like to make it clear that I see it as one of my important tasks to ensure a continued and continuous focus on the health, environment and safety of the petroleum industry. At the same time, however, I would also like to reiterate that the responsibility of the authorities cannot replace the clear responsibility of the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1538	It opens for cord changes – to the extent necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1541	Yes, President, one might well have had a discussion if necessary, but in many ways I became somewhat uncertain when the Council of State came into the SUT arrangement. What's the situation, is that there's going to be a consensual big deal here today that determines that it's going to be a mandatory arrangement, and then I just want the council to confirm that it's his goal, and he's going to work for it. Obviously, he has to stick to a code and look at the system in relation to it. However, the principle must be established when the collapse of a co-consultant determines that the SUT scheme should be mandatory. I just want a confirmation from the government that that's what he's going to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1546	I thought I had been crystal clear. The answer was yes. However, we need to look at both the legislative changes that may be necessary and check whether the scheme is in conformity with EEA legislation – those restrictions are there. I cannot therefore say today in what way we will come back with the follow-up of the case. We welcome the SUT. We take note that it is likely that a unanimous growth wants it. And as I said myself, I think the system in principle is a good system, but it will close parts of the socket, and therefore it is important questions that need to be resolved, especially in relation to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1553	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1563	The President has received enquiries that could indicate that it was developing a popular demand that the Odelsting meeting be set immediately after the grand meeting. The President will therefore inform you that Odelstinget has agreed that the meeting will be held at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox And the granddaughter will not dream of settling in the affairs of Odelsting. - So the Odelstingsmätte will start at 4 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1572	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented four proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. These proposals have been distributed in the Chamber. Proposal No. 1 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the impact on rural policy to be assessed as part of the decision-making basis for determining whether policies in key societal areas are to be implemented.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1591	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Stortinget to develop broadband networks in areas of the country where the market itself is not strong enough to ensure development.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will support the proposal. Whether or not this also applies to the Progress Party is unclear. The Progress Party will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1608	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the regional policy instruments of the SND and of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that district policy will maintain the main features of the housing pattern and ensure equivalent living conditions throughout the country.’ The Labour Party has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1631	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs at the Stortinget meeting on 30 April 2002 on regional and regional policy be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1638	During the debate, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose legislative and regulatory changes to ensure employee representation in shipowners’ boards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-07.ana.ud726e1685	There is no record.
