ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e30	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e33	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to propose that the Government draw up a regulation to allow advertising of political parties in local television, as a probationary system during the 2003 municipal and county election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e38	The representative of May Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e41	On behalf of myself, I am promoting a proposal where the Stortinget asks the Government to draw up the provisions of the Patient Rights Act and the Child Protection Act that children and young people under 18 years of age should receive a treatment guarantee for drug and psychiatric treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e46	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e58	State and municipality have taken responsibility for some of the most important tasks in Norwegian society — responsibility for health and safety, for care and education, for the environment and safety, for work and social justice. This calls for great seriousness. If we can solve these problems, it means a good and safe everyday life for the individual. If we can't do it, at best we put the individual in embarrassment – and at worst we cause personal tragedies. Unfortunately, there is still a great deal of distance between ambitions and realities in Norwegian public services. Despite the fact that Norway is among the countries in Europe with the highest public consumption, and despite the fact that there have been nearly 200,000 more public employees in the last 15 years, we have continued to have health cows, kindergarten cows, elderly care failures, quality problems and school dissatisfaction and motivational problems among public employees. The political and social involvement of the majority of people is getting weaker, the economy feels public as bureaucratic and the law as a hesitant, and among many taxpayers, there is a widespread perception that there is no reasonable relationship between what we pay in taxes and what we get back from public services. Nevertheless, we have the prerequisites for doing a better job in Norway. We have a professional and sober administrative tradition, we have a short way from citizens to policy makers, we have skilled and well-qualified employees in the state and municipality, and we have not least a financial freedom of action that gives us time and opportunities to create a better public sector and a better service provision for the individual. The government is seizing almost one quarter of mainland investment and nearly one third of the workforce in Norway. This too should call for great seriousness. Those who are employed in the public sector do an important job and contribute to the creation of value in society in line with those who work in private enterprises. However, we must remember that every employee in the public sector means one person less to the business community, and if there is anything Norway and Norwegian business will have a shortage in the decades to come, it is labour and competence. At the same time, it is more expensive to use labour and other resources in public activities than in private activities, because public resource use is financed by taxes that create distortions and inefficiency in other parts of the economy. An additional cost of public expenditure therefore costs much more than one krona, and the larger the public sector becomes, the higher the cost of making it grow even more. The seriousness of the public responsibility and the socio-economic costs of public resource use indicate a review and clarification of the limits of public responsibility. A clearer clarification and delimitation of responsibility will nevertheless not erode the agreement we have in Norway that public responsibility for social development, social protection and individual well-being should be wide and comprehensive. This means that government will have to seize a large proportion of the resources in the future. With the health and care needs we have, it is more likely that the share of goods and services for which public authorities are responsible will increase than it will decrease. The more important it becomes that the state and the municipality operate effectively. Efficiency is not about sweating, it's about achieving the goals you've set yourself in the best and cheapest possible way. It has to be the norm in public administration and services if we are to be able to live up to our commitments in the long run. There has been a lot of work on renewal and conversion in the public sector, but it has been written and investigated even more. Now there is a need for action first and foremost, but not any action. It's not enough to do anything. The action must address the basic problems and implementation must be firm and consistent. We need to build on the structural measures taken by previous governments, and we need to avoid symbolism policies and adhocgreps. In this statement, the basic steps we want to take are announced. The main action is to trigger action in all the individual sectors, departments, municipalities and service-producing units which, in total, constitute the public sector. It's in these units the job is to be done, and it's just by facilitating that each of them will and can do a better job, that we can get results and not just writing in sand. The vision of the cooperative management is: a public sector in which citizens participate in democratic arenas, know their rights and responsibilities and feel confident that the authorities are acting in an orderly manner in their different roles of the public sector in which users receive equivalent services of good quality and accessibility adapted to their individual needs of the public sector in which taxpayers can be assured that they operate effectively in the public sector in which businesses experience management as clean and unbureaucratic, and where Norwegian public services are a competitive advantage for the business community in the international public sector in which public employees have exciting, challenging and developing jobs, and where they feel at the same time security and participation in the job situation; This is a demanding vision, but it is necessary and realistic. If it is to be realised, we need to create a simpler and tidy society, we need to provide citizens with a service offer better adapted to the needs of the individual, we need to streamline public activities and make public contributions to efficiency in the rest of the economy, and we need to develop an inclusive and stimulating personnel policy for those working in the public sector. The vision also requires a reflected and implemented division of labour between the state and the municipality, where the state keeps order in its own house, and where the state gives the municipalities appropriate framework conditions, but where, in the area of responsibility of the municipal sector, it must be the local elected representatives who have the decisive word. The work of a simpler and cleaner society must be based on three principles. The first is that users of public services should not have to know how the public in-house has chosen to organise. Public service agencies and electronic administration can often be appropriate means of doing so. However, these must then act as user-oriented access ports, not only across departments but also across administrative levels. In some cases, for example: in the case of employment, social security and social services, there is a need for more extensive reorganisation, bringing together the personalised services and coordination of establishments and financial instruments. The second principle is that citizens and businesses are required to have sound legislation and easy access to rights information. To do that, it has to be cleaned up in laws and regulations. A good principle for that review is the sunset principle, i.e. regulations have a expiry date and will automatically expire if they are not explicitly renewed. The third principle of simplification is that we, as citizens and users, should be sure that the public behaves neatly in its roles as authority, owner, service provider, source of funding and controller, and that we should know which body is responsible for what. The collection and sale of state industrial interests is an important step in that clean-up. Another important step is to make a clearer distinction between management and service production and between responsibility for financing public supply and the actual production of services. These distinctions are important, for example: in order to allow the outsourcing of service production and to enable the service provider to make demands. A third step in the clean-up process is to strengthen public regulators and give them a more independent position in relation to central government. At this point, the Government is working on a review and reorganisation of all state supervision and will return to the Stortinget as a separate matter during 2002. The aim of the review is to strengthen the supervisory and control function, to increase the independence of supervisory authorities, to ensure high professional competence in supervisory activities and to find an appropriate geographical location for each supervision. The needs of public services vary from one individual to another. It is an important objective, within reasonable limits, to meet the needs of individual adaptation, whether in the case of childcare services adapted to the needs of parents working in turn, to go to a particular school, to organise education and work for the disabled, to be treated in a special hospital or to individual needs in the case of care for the elderly. It is also important to take into account that Norway is increasingly a multicultural society and that public services therefore need to be adapted to the needs of a complex population. In order to meet the individual needs of users, the Government will increase the freedom of choice of individuals, to a greater extent allow the money to follow users when changing service providers, to develop wider and more differentiated offers and to require government agencies and service providers to carry out systematic user surveys. User evaluations shall be part of the annual reporting and shall be published and used as a reference and comparison basis between service providers. In parallel with this, service production needs to be reorganised. Today it bears too much impact on the management and management system. Organisational and management arrangements, reporting routes, budgetary systems and control procedures are in very many cases designed based on the needs of the administration and focusing on ideals such as transparency, democratic participation and political governance. However, good principles of administration are not necessarily just as good principles of personal service provision. A hierarchical organisation is administratively transparent but difficult to reconcile with teamwork, user involvement and other services. Transparency and transparency may conflict with the individual’s need for confidentiality, and rigid budgetary and control systems provide little flexibility to meet individual needs and desires. A clearer distinction between management and service provision makes it possible to choose more flexible, user-oriented organisational models for the service part of public activities, and exemption gives each entity the freedom to develop the most appropriate organisational model. Greater freedom for service providers and increased individualisation of services will result in greater differentiation of offers, both between individuals, groups and geographical areas. It is not a disadvantage, it is an advantage, because the offers will more reflect differences in wishes and needs and differences in local priorities. Work objective number three is a more efficient public sector. We need to get more and better services out of each krona used, we need to redeploy resources to the areas where we get the most out of the last krona, and we need to figure out a division of labour between the public and the users that makes the total costs, related to public service provision, as low as possible. In order to contribute to the latest of these interim objectives, the Government will introduce requirements for total cost calculations in the case of public tenders, investments and major shifts in the service provision. With the total costs, we mean the sum of the costs incurred by the provider of the service, the costs or the savings incurred by other parts of the public sector, and the costs incurred by users themselves to benefit from the offer. For many public services — education and health are good examples — the total cost is the multiple of the costs of the public unit itself. Total cost calculations will make the effects visible and make decision-makers aware, for example. be able to avoid school centralisation in cases where the savings for the municipality are less than the additional time and transport costs incurred by children and parents. There is also an impact on the increase in treatment capacity for diseases when the extra costs of rapid treatment are more than offset by the benefits for patients and the social security rate of shorter waiting time. With regard to the other aspects of efficiency, it is possible to choose one of two ways in order to improve efficiency in purpose and cost. One way is through central control, large units and nice organisation charts. It has been tried, and it has not led to the goal. The other way is through the delegation and decentralisation of responsibilities and powers, economic incentives and independent quality control. It provides greater diversity of solutions, and with the less transparent organisational map, but in return it provides better and cheaper services for its citizens. The reason is that the insight and competence needed to find better solutions is not found in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, but primarily in individual municipalities, service-producing units and state agencies that actually do the job. The main task of the central authorities must be to free up the existing competences and to ensure that local units are provided with efficiency-enhancing framework conditions combined with the necessary guidance and training. The main principle of efficiency will therefore be local freedom and local responsibility. State service providers shall be released or otherwise granted greater autonomy, as has already been done for hospitals, and as has been decided by the Stortinget for universities and colleges. In many cases, freedom to provide services is also natural in the municipal sector. However, it must be up to the elected representatives of each municipality to choose appropriate, effective solutions. The government will give municipalities greater freedom – to choose ways to organise the service provision, to determine the design of the services, to dispose of state transfers and to effectively influence their own revenues. A freer position for municipalities and for state service providers, greater freedom of choice for users and more schemes where the money follows users, will lead to increased competition between public service providers. It itself is healthy, and it also facilitates the opening of competition between public and private actors. In many municipalities, competition attempts have advanced and experience suggests that more municipalities can use them as a solution. Government services can also improve interaction and competition between public and private actors, and the Government will provide for greater elements of private services in, among others. health and education sectors, in action for disabled persons and jobseekers, in the field of transport and in State property management. Greater freedom and responsibility require local units to be rewarded on the basis of results achieved. In those cases where users can choose freely and the money follows the users, it happens automatically. Service providers who do a good job get more users and increased income, while those who do a bad job experience a lack of mobility and budget failure. In areas where it is not natural to allow money to follow users, more direct but similar forms of results-based funding are needed. In the new funding facility for higher education, there are elements of such funding, and in the hospital input-driven financing system there are also elements of the same. The government will further develop these mechanisms so that they are more clearly linked to the results achieved, and we will investigate and develop similar mechanisms for other governmental areas. Greater freedom for municipalities and service providers places great demands on local organisational insight and management. Although it is local you have the best professional prerequisites to choose good solutions, not all municipalities and service providers will feel that they have the necessary management and organisational competence. The State must therefore assume responsibility for guidance and leadership development. In connection with the modernisation work, specific management development programmes for public activities will be developed and the Government will also establish an organisational development programme for assistance to government and municipal service producers. At the same time, direct cooperation will be initiated with a group of reference municipalities for experimental activities, exchange of experience and guidance. Local freedom imposes increased requirements for supervision and control in order to ensure the legal certainty of individuals and to ensure the quality of services. The reorganisation and strengthening of supervisory authorities is therefore necessary, including in the context of efficiency improvement. At the same time, the strengthening of the supervisory function must adapt the supervisory approach to the objective of giving local units real greater freedom. The philosophy of supervision must be based more on the preparation of functional requirements and, to a lesser extent, on the design and detailed follow-up of a choice of regulations. It is not enough for the state and the municipality themselves to be effective. They also have to act in a way that contributes positively to the rest of the economy. It imposes strict requirements on the tax system, which – I would almost regret to say – lies outside the scope of modernisation work; it also imposes strict requirements on the use of instruments in business and district policy, on public regulation and on the way in which public authorities act in private markets. The State has and should have a comprehensive responsibility for business and district development in Norway. We need a strong business life, and it's elementary sense to use the whole country. However, if we are to do so, we need to do something different and more than use tools with good nutrition or district sounds. Industry development is primarily promoted by good general conditions. The level of taxation must not be too high, industry must have good access to capital, knowledge and skilled labour, to high-quality infrastructure and public services and there must be effective competition in domestic markets. Similarly, rural development is best promoted by measures that make it more attractive to live and operate even outside major cities. It can help by giving municipalities freedom and a general financial framework, by contributing to better local and regional infrastructure, by removing unnecessary restrictions and regulations in the district industries, and by supporting the development of a good education and cultural and leisure provision across the country. However, more specific instruments are also needed, in particular to contribute to the development of new and more varied businesses in rural areas. The government will therefore review the instrument in order to have a greater and better impact on efforts. In this context, the organisation of the regional policy instrument will also be assessed. As part of the modernisation work, the Government will also review and identify state agencies suitable for relocation from Oslo, as well as continue its efforts to identify site-independent tasks that can be carried out elsewhere in the country just as easily or better. In this way, we're going to use the whole country, and we can see larger regional centres, places during conversion and areas with large relocations in context. Clean-up and simplification of laws, regulations and other regulations is another measure to contribute to private sector efficiency and productivity. In this context, provisions relating to opening hours, working hours and the working environment are of particular importance. The government has announced that it will repeal the Opening Time Act and soften the working time regulations. The Working Environment Act will be reviewed when the position of the Labour Law Committee is in place in 2003. In parallel to this, we want to simplify and clarify the rules of the law. At the same time, when the provisions are softened, it will be necessary to intensify their enforcement, not to lose sight of public undertakings. Effective business also requires competition. The Government will implement a competition policy action programme, the main elements of which are the strengthening of the position of Competition Surveillance Authority, the review of laws, regulations and public regulations in order to eliminate anti-competitive provisions and the exercise of its own purchasing role in a way that promotes competition. Not least the last of these points is important, as the state and municipality account for such a large part of the total purchases of goods and services in Norway. Real and effective competition in public procurement will stimulate the development of an innovative and internationally competitive business. All enterprises, irrespective of their size and location, must be given opportunities in this market. The fifth work objective is an inclusive and stimulating staff policy. Modernisation in the public sector is impossible unless the main weight of the more than 700,000 working there is motivated and involved in the process. A key prerequisite for a better public sector is therefore a human resources policy that is motivating. It must ensure broad recruitment, stimulate cultural and competence diversity in public staff, facilitate conversion and transition both in the public sector and between public and business sectors and prevent the exclusion of older workers. The employment and working conditions of public sector employees do not meet these requirements today. Public administration and services do not yet have enough local freedom to compete for key personnel, and public employers are not good enough to ensure the diversity of ideas and impulses obtained through recruitment from a wide range of groups, including ethnic minorities. There's also a lot to do when it comes to pulling the 50 pst. by the leadership talents of society made up of women. At the same time, high levels of protection against dismissal and the lack of follow-up of individuals make migration more difficult, and the employment and working conditions of the private and public sectors are so different that transition is problematic. New employment and working conditions for public sector employees must be negotiated with employees and their organisations. In these negotiations, employment, pension and working conditions need to be changed in order to reduce differences between the private and public sectors. In this context, it is also natural to assess the appropriateness of the Civil Service Act as it now stands. However, the rights of employees must be respected and the changes must be implemented in such a way that those working in the public sector do not come out worse than today. In particular, it is important that we achieve harmonisation of pay conditions and public and private pension schemes so that the exemption of public entities or the transition between public and private activities does not lead to lower overall conditions for individuals. This harmonisation work must be seen in the context of the work of the Pension Commission. In addition to changes in employment and working conditions, a more active human resources policy needs to be developed by the public. The employees are a resource that needs to be provided with development opportunities. It requires central and local authorities and service providers to carry out ongoing personnel development work with the encouragement and guidance of individual and good opportunities for further education and training. Unfortunately, too often we experience that older workers in the public sector are being pushed out instead of being helped into new jobs. There's a waste of resources. As there is a lack of hands and heads that are the real restriction on public service in Norway, it is pointless to expel workers only because they can no longer function fully in the tasks they have had so far. If we are to prevent this, the effort must be put in early. Individuals must take responsibility themselves, but it is their primary responsibility to follow up and develop the individual in a way that prevents them from stiffening and becoming incapacitated. Modernisation must be a continuous activity in all public activities and it is therefore neither desirable nor appropriate to organise the work in demarcating projects. However, some areas are of such importance, either in themselves or as a basis for other work, that they need to be given special attention. The government has therefore chosen to identify some sectors where it is particularly important to move ahead with modernisation work. At the same time, we have chosen to launch cross-cutting projects related to tasks relevant to modernisation work in all sectors. The sectors that will be given priority are education, the municipal sector and coordination and user correction in the areas of employment, social security and social services. In each of these areas, the Government aims at reforms that will enhance quality and user interests, increase freedom and accountability of local units and contribute to increased efficiency in the use of resources. In addition to these three, the Government will give high priority to the implementation of the hospital reform, of the quality reform in higher education, of the defence reform and of the reforms in the justice sector. You have to be careful to think that the job in these areas is done just because some important structural grips have been taken. On the contrary, that's when the job starts. It is in implementation that we want to see whether the structural measures that have been taken are the right ones; and that is when we will also meet all the challenges of an organisational and personnel nature that need to find a solution if the reforms are to have the desired effect. The cross-cutting projects involved in the modernisation work are linked to the simplification of instruments, laws and regulations, to the organisation and location of supervision, to the development of staff, organisation and managers in the public sector, to ICT in public administration and services and to the division of labour between departments and directorates. Modernisation, streamlining and simplification in the public sector are about organisational changes, about financial instruments and other framework conditions, about new types of legislation and regulations, about staff policy and employment conditions. However, if such measures are to have some effect, it must be because they change cultures. There is a lot of good work done in the state and municipality, and there are enough of them who work there – almost those of us who work there – who eventually feel that there could be even better work if there were not too many new modernisation and renewal programmes. “Let’s have the opportunity to do our job,” is a slogan that many public employees would like to sign. It's a long way to go what the government wants. We do not want to give the employees peace and quiet, but we want to give them the opportunity to concentrate on the job to be done, and we want to give them responsibility for finding out for themselves how to do it better. Instead of imposing specific solutions on units and employees, we will be responsible for the employees and the units in which they work. It itself represents a cultural change. However, if the line of responsibility is to work, culture must also be changed in other ways. Firstly, the public must be less introverted. The job to be done shall be done for all individuals who are dependent on public services, public authority and public development arenas. Individuals must be the daily focus of their work, and they must be the basis against which we measure the results. Everything else — organisation, management, financial management and reporting — are only support functions. Secondly, public and those working there must stop thinking of themselves as a shielded sector. We have to be aware of the differences between public and civil society, but at the same time we have to build bridges between the two in the areas where it is natural. We will do so by dropping more private actors into the production of services for which the public is responsible, and we will do the same by choosing organisation solutions for public services based on some of the models and experiences of the private sector. However, the most important thing in bridge construction is to create a common integrated labour market. Public accountability for important services does not mean that special employment and working conditions are necessary for those providing these services. We are served with the exchange of people and competences between the private and the public, and we are served by making the same kind of demands and using the same type of motivational and reward systems in what has traditionally been two parts of the world of work. Not least, we are served with the community between public and private employees that an integrated labour market will lead to. The means to be used will contribute to a new culture, with better governance for citizens and businesses, more developing jobs for employees and more currency for taxpayers' money. But, above all, the instruments will create a culture in which individuals experience better public services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e179	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Labour and Administration on the modernisation and simplification of the public sector be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted. The size has now come to consideration of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e197	It's the third time in a short time that the Storting has to deal with this case, which is a direct result of what happened in the United States on September 11. This applies to the State insurance liability of Norwegian aircraft and Airports in the event of damage to third parties arising from acts of war and terrorism. And a central word in this is that that insurance liability should be temporary. The previous decision taken by Stortinget states that the State is an insurer until midnight on 30 January, and that, as one asks today from the Government's side, and to which a Joint Committee on Transport joins, this responsibility is extended until 31 March. It is also the time when the EU hopes to end state insurance schemes and that we can re-establish a private market. What has happened in the meantime is that the ministry has always tried to get a private market reestablished in consultation with other countries, because it is not a state task to run insurance companies. One has also, since the first time we had the case for treatment, been reduced to almost a third of the original, yet the total government exposure is approximately. NOK 900 billion, i.e. 1 1/2 oil fund. It's then a theoretical risk, I'll dare to claim from this pulpit. Something has also been criticised this time that the case has a doctor outside for a short time, that we have a short treatment period. The background is the same as I outlined in my post last time we had a case up in Stortinget, namely that the department is continuously trying to fulfill the Stortinge's intentions to re-establish a private market. This has not been closed either in Norway or in the other countries in the same situation. In order to avoid getting cases back to Stortinget so often, in addition – and this is where there is a majority and a minority in the Committee – the department has the possibility to extend the scheme by one month in the year after 31 March. Here, there's a minority in the Committee, the Progress Party, and I think they'll do their best to get closer to their point of view. The majority have found that this can be a practical arrangement, as this will work systematically to get what we all want: a private arrangement. As long as there are no alternatives other than that the state is still responsible, I would recommend the setting for which the majority has entered into this case, and I hope that the Stortinge can join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e212	Insurance schemes such as this belong to the private market, as the committee chairman has also explained. It's not a public responsibility. But the alternative in this case would be to put the aircraft fleet on the ground, and therefore the Progress Party agrees to intervene and provide such guarantees. I want to stress again that it is working to reestablish a private market. I see that the government is making an effort to do that, but as I said, I want to stress that this is done, and that you put all your strength into establishing a private market. It seems that when there are important issues for the Storting that deal with a lot of money, it is estimated that the treatment period should be proportionally shorter the higher the sum that is involved in what we are going to treat. Although the guarantee has declined from the astronomical amount of NOK 2 500 billion in October to approx. NOK 900 billion per year. 1 January, it's still talking about astronomical amounts. One thing is that the Storting gets unacceptable short time to deal with these issues – which is not the first time, it's actually the third time, and we've pointed it out before – the second is that the majority now wants to transfer the assessment regarding the 900 billion SEK guarantee exposure from the Storing to the Government. It is worth noting that the EU has proposed the end of the scheme on 31 March, and then the Stortinget should have the matter reviewed in the light of the treatment and decisions taken in the EU. On that basis, we will vote against the last paragraph of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e223	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e264	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-24.ana.ud978e283	There is no record.
