ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e82	The representative of the Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, there is an application for leave, signed by the Head of the delegation, Mr Morten Höglund. The application concerns the leave of the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Heidi Sørensen, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Morten Høglund on 12 and 13 December to attend the EFTA Ministerial Meeting in Interlaken, Switzerland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund For Oslo: Akhtar Chaudhry For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad3. Mette Korsrud is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Julie Christiansen. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 6 December 2002: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 6 December 2002 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is hereby decided:State Secretary Christine Benedichte Meyer is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State at the Department of Labour and Administration on 17 January 2003.State Secretary Osmund Kaldheim is hereby appointed Secretary of State at the request of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Administration on 31 December 2002.The Secretary of State Osmund Kaldheim is hereby appointed Secretary of State of the Ministry of Labour and Administration on 1 January 2003. The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. Before the cases are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 9 p.m. 12.15 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues beyond the regulatory time until the current map has been completed. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and complete voting after the 1 to 6 cases have been dealt with on the current map and then total voting on the 7 to 10 cases at the end of today’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e164	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e175	The budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is based on the framework adopted by the Stortinget on 2 December of this year, and the total expenditure framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget is then DKK 16.9 billion. This is 155 million. kr less than that originally proposed by the Government. The reduced framework is a consequence of the budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. The Workers' Party's alternative financial position scheme would provide 28 million. kr more in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs than what the Government originally proposed, and that would give a total of 83 million. kr more than is currently the established framework. However, the Labour Party must note that there was no majority in favour of an increase in the budget, as we proposed. We have therefore joined the reduced framework. There is broad agreement on important parts of Norwegian foreign policy. It also shows this setting. The working party is pleased that the aid budget is increasing by 856 million. kr. This government is thus continuing to increase the aid budget by the Workers' Party in recent years. It is gratifying that the Right now, for the second consecutive year, is involved in increasing the aid budget in the government position. It shows that there is now an even wider majority in development policy. Only the Progress Party continues to have its own budget line that deviates dramatically from the rest of the bulk of the population. With regard to the priorities of the assistance budget, there is broad agreement on the areas of intervention identified by the Government. I would like to refer here to the Committee's joint comment on the position in which the Ministry is asked to continue working on how the aid budget can be set up in a way that allows the priorities to be better understood and the results of the efforts made. In the case of foreign stations, the Government adds to relatively many conversions of Norwegian foreign representation in the budget for next year. In some of the areas affected, there are clear Norwegian political and economic interests. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a unanimous committee in the suspension considers it important to maintain a comprehensive Norwegian representation abroad. The Committee also considers that there is a need for an ongoing review of conversions in this area. It has been a long practice to leave these kinds of questions to the Government. However, due to relatively large conversions, the Committee in the configuration of the Department calls for an appropriate re-examination of these issues. The government is then given the opportunity to assess the objections raised. As the Labour Party sees it, the objections are particularly heavy with regard to the proposal for the closure of the Embassy in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, because of the large number of Norwegian companies operating in the country, but also because the overall political situation in the region is uncertain today. We are therefore pleased that a unanimous committee asks the Ministry to come back with a review of these issues. Although, as I said, there is a broad consensus on important parts of Norwegian foreign policy, I would nevertheless like to go a little further into some areas where the Workers' Party in its alternative budget provided for greater appropriations than was the result of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party. The region's allocation to the Middle East is reduced by approx. Fifteen million. kr. The Labour Party believes that the unclear situation in the Middle East suggests that the allocation should at least have continued at the present level. So in our alternative budget, we increased this item by 16 million. kr. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee believes that, in the light of the situation in the region, the allocation for this purpose must be seen in the context of the allocation of humanitarian aid and human rights. It provides flexibility in terms of increasing the allocation to the Middle East if necessary. I'd also like to stay a little bit while I'm planning to get to our neighbourhoods. For many years in the opposition, the right has proposed a lower allocation of aid to the world's poorest developing countries, the so-called ODA-approved aid, than has been the case with the majority of the population. The argument for this has been that it is believed that funds have been distributed too much, and that a concentration of aid money has been sought. Understood: Norway has been represented too many places in the world. At the same time as the Right every year has cited this criticism, among other things. The Labour Party and the Centre Parties themselves have raised the issue of increased appropriations for our neighbourhoods, especially for Russia. The working party believes that there must be room for both. We have shown in the government that this is possible. In the 2001 budget, for example: We increased the aid budget by just over DKK 1.5 billion, while increasing support for Central and Eastern Europe by 60 pst. So now the government is proposing a sharp reduction in the appropriations for our neighbourhoods. First, the Government presents a draft budget which reduces 19 million. in relation to the 2002 budget for project cooperation with Russia and Eastern and Central Europe. This item is then reduced by another 30 million. through the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. This means that the allocation to go to project cooperation with, among other things. Russia in areas such as nuclear safety and the environment and the health and social sector are drastically reduced by a total of 49 million. kr, in relation to the current year. This is a reverse operation by the Right and Foreign Minister. It is good that the Right has turned around in aid to the poorest countries, and in Norway's peace and reconciliation work. But it's not positive that the Right has turned around in terms of efforts in our neighbourhoods. The working party is concerned about the consequences of such a large reduction. We believe it is important to keep the level of activity of project cooperation up to a high level. In particular, we will highlight project cooperation in the health and social sector as important. A unanimous committee has also stressed that special attention should be paid to health cooperation and efforts towards disabled people in Barents' cooperation. The budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party also implies that the proposal of 5 million. to reverse the UN's efforts to develop the international criminal justice area. The Labour Party believes that this appropriation should have been maintained, as it is now important to show the willingness to put in place the International Criminal Court. However, when these points are marked by the Labour Party, I would like to highlight the joy of the fact that there is a great deal of agreement on Norwegian foreign policy. This is a prerequisite for small Norway to be able to make itself applicable internationally. Many parties have contributed to this. I hope that it will continue next year as well. Since this debate is held on the day of the Nobel Peace Prize, it may be appropriate to recall that peacemaking involves the use of many different instruments, often in combination. Sometimes it is necessary to use power to make it possible at all to start a reconstruction work after a war. Sometimes it's necessary to threaten to use power. There is little doubt that we had not received the significant concessions of Saddam Hussein without any threat to the use of power. However, the use of power must be combined with diplomatic and political instruments. It is necessary to focus on humanitarian aid, long-term assistance, civil society building, the clearing of landmines and the destruction of small arms, which are often necessary, and in schools, health and the construction of trade unions and political parties. All of this is reflected in Norwegian foreign policy and is numerically fixed in the budget that the Stortinget is dealing with today. There is money to support all these elements of the budget that will be adopted. It is a great strength for Norway to continue this policy from government to government. Thus, those who are dependent on Norwegian support or those who place their trust in Norway’s willingness to contribute, such as the United Kingdom, are becoming dependent on Norwegian support. in the case of the conflict in Sri Lanka, not dependent on political throwing wins in Norway. It is perhaps the most important thing to be told when dealing with this part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e211	Like the chairman of the Committee, I would like to stress that the Committee's budgetary position is in almost all respects in agreement. The disagreement with regard to the use of funds within the framework adopted is marginal in all senses of the word. There is also reason to stress that it is important for a country such as Norway that there is such a broad consensus on how to prioritise in the field of foreign policy and development policy. First a few brief remarks about the Svalbard budget. The Committee has agreed that the main issue of the Svalbard budget is the energy supply to Longyearbyen. The Committee welcomes the follow-up to the draft budget. The Committee also points out that it is natural to consider alternative ownership conditions for the energy plant in the further work on this matter. There has been a significant change from last year to this year in the case of Svalbard, and that is the entry into force of the new governance model, with a local self-government for Longyearbyen. There is reason to note with satisfaction that this reform has now been implemented and that it appears to be functioning properly. As regards the general profile of the draft budget, there is reason to stress that it is a follow-up to the premises made by the Government in the Sem Declaration of Norwegian Foreign and Development Policy. It is particularly gratifying to follow the goal of stepping up the Norwegian development effort towards what is the programmed objective during the ageing period, namely to reach 1 pst. There is an indication of disagreement in the committee setting regarding the proposed reduction of the Norwegian foreign representation. A joint committee underlines that this is and shall be the responsibility of the Government. At the same time, the Committee points out that the changes proposed at this time are relatively larger than usual and that some of the elements of this proposal may be problematic. For my part, let me stress that I do not see any problems in that the Government, in accordance with what was the prerequisite for the establishment of the Embassy in Baghdad, namely that it should be linked to Norway's membership of the Security Council and the Norwegian Presidency of the Sanctions Group, takes the consequence that these are no longer the conditions present, and therefore the embassy proposes that they be closed. It's a logical consequence of previous assumptions. The element that I consider to be perhaps the most problematic in the package is the stepping down of the Norwegian representation in a country as central to the EU as Germany. It is linked to the fact that we face quite major and demanding challenges from the Norwegian side in updating us about the changes that are taking place in the enlargement of the EU, and therefore also the extension of the EEA Agreement. Our relationship with Germany is central to Norwegian interests, and in this context I would like to stress that it may be useful to assess once to the signal effect of stepping down the Norwegian presence of Germany right now. Finally, a small note of what has been said about the Middle East aid. It is important, in addition to the point made by the chairperson of the Committee on the flexibility of Norwegian efforts in the Middle East, to demonstrate that a unanimous committee has stressed the importance of the importance of good governance and anti-corruption measures, not least as regards Norwegian efforts in relation to the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e230	With the exception of the changes mainly of a technical nature made in the context of the budgetary agreement, the draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is today adopted unchanged. This is worth noting, in the view of the Progress Party. No number changes have been made by the Foreign Affairs Committee. With the exception of a few leaders in very careful order, no attempts have been made on policy priorities. It may seem that the broad majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee believes that the government's responsibility for foreign policy also extends to the point where it believes that the Government can use the money as they would like to. In a budget of almost 17 billion dollars, not one million will be changed. Although the Committee sees the need and wants to change, nothing will be done in clear terms. Where does the policy go? Where is it of the will to make choices and bring clear, concrete leadership? Where is the political leadership? One reason for this lack of willingness to move money is the majority's fear of moving aid. That budget is being reduced, for example. Five million. kr, you can risk going beyond the so-called ODA percentage, and it's sacred. It is even more sacred than the rule of action and has become a governance instrument that is followed blindly, without having to consider what serves the aid or is in the interest of Norwegian foreign policy. The focus is on the amount of the heads and the percentage and to a lesser extent on the use of the money. This is pointed out, but it is still relevant, especially when we have this year discovered several factors that indicate that there is a misuse of aid, and perhaps even abuse of it. Many suggest that there has been a lack of control, and there has been more eagerness to pay out money than to control and evaluate the effect of the funds that have been allocated. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has a framework that is far from what was adopted. We have therefore chosen to make a minority proposal where we show how we would have prioritised using the framework that has been adopted. The Progress Party will give greater priority to how we use Norwegian aid. We will terminate the system of main cooperation countries. We want to give priority to the activity of non-governmental organisations, but with strict requirements for efficiency and close follow-up and control. We will focus primarily on health promotion measures, including: to combat HIV/AIDS, and in particular we will focus on basic education for children. Here we know that both Redd Barna and Plan Norway have very good experience. We will replace direct budgetary support with debt relief, and we will therefore double the appropriations for debt relief. We want to spend more on emergency aid. Unfortunately, we see here that the need is enormous at all times. We want an even stronger commitment to food measures in developing countries, and we want to draw Norwegian businesses closer into the aid. Today, Norwegian business life is being neglected, for example: as a result of the implementation by Norway of a total decoupling of Norwegian aid. The party of progress believes it is very unwise to untie faster than it is natural to compare with countries. In order for Norwegian business to invest in developing countries, there must be guarantee schemes and flexibility in the Norwegian guarantee system that ensure solutions that are interesting and feasible. The political risk of investing in many developing countries is so great that without a sensible guarantee system, it is not far. The Progress Party asks the Government to contact Norfund to make this an appropriate instrument. Nor can the Progress Party at this time fail to point out that the main means of getting developing countries back on track is to include them in world trade, which, properly liberalised, could bring benefits to developing countries that far exceed current overall assistance. Here it is now up to the Government, among others. the ongoing WTO negotiations to ensure that the interests of developing countries are heard. We know that one of the biggest obstacles for many poor countries, as well as the trade barriers from, among others. The EU is a customs barrier between the poor countries, which prevents regional trade and development and causes the flow of capital, and to a certain extent trade, to a great extent, to go north-south and not into the regions. Our message is clear: we want a more active trade policy as well as a tougher and stronger priority of what is most important and most effective. Finally, I would like to take up the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote and draw attention to our proposal to maintain the embassy in Abu Dhabi and the professional consulates in Hamburg, Hong Kong and Miami.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e251	Morten Höglund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e254	It is with some wonder that I hear the representative of Höglund's regrets that he has not been moved on any money in the committee's work. There is one reason for this, and that is that the Progress Party has entered into an agreement with the government parties which also binds it in this area. So if there's any money moved here, in addition to what the Progress Party has already moved on, it's the people who have to contribute to it. That's the way to make a settlement. Otherwise, I think that the budget adopted today in terms of aid is a good budget. Although it has been reduced after a round of the Progress Party, the government has managed to maintain a high level of Norwegian aid. This is probably also the priority of the Christian People's Party in the negotiations within the Government with the Right, and it bears the budget out. When you think that a budget is basically good, it's reasonable that you also tell me about it, and not just start with the chattering right away. If you want to take a closer look at what are the main profiles, it's perhaps the most eye-catching that the Progress Party has accepted so few cuts in the Ministry of Aid's budget as they have done in this round, and that the huge cuts in billions of dollars contained in that proposal are really just a game for the gallery, because they've given up, and that means that the consensus on Norwegian aid policy is really much bigger than one would believe. The other thing that's relatively eye-catching is that either the Right has changed its mind on a number of points, or the Christian People's Party, which in the government, has had some impact on some issues where the Right did not agree with them before. This is particularly true in two areas. One is that the scepticism that the Right has repeatedly demonstrated regarding Norway’s high profile of peace mediation has been blown away from this budget. I don't think that's so nice, because when a traveler travels around the world, this is exactly what connects with Norway, no matter where you are. Now, the question we're getting is, essentially, about Sri Lanka, about how it goes about the work there. We're known in the world because we're doing a job that facilitates a peacemaking between the parties in Sri Lanka. It is in case a very good adult training work from the Christian People's Party towards the Right. The second point in relation to the Right must be that the commitment that we perceived as the Right and SV agreed with Russia is now significantly subdued. Here, there are restrictions and cuts in relation to the responsibility we have for our neighbourhoods. It's a concern of SV. What distinguishes SV the most from the government's proposals for the aid budget and from what the Stortinget now adopts is precisely in the area of continuing high levels of aid to Russia. These are our neighbourhoods. This is one of the areas in the world where there is the greatest difference in living standards from one side of the boundary to the other side of the border. We see this as part of our preparedness and defence strategy also in Norway, that we have a special responsibility in the northern regions. The second is about the Middle East. Norway also has a special responsibility in relation to the Middle East. We have a long-term commitment. There is a situation that is now under the shadow of the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan, but where it is necessary to maintain high and constant preparedness in a conflict it is terribly difficult to see any solutions to per. today. The third point where we're different is that we're proposing that DKK 5 billion of our oil fund be managed differently, for investment in the poorest countries, that is. that we accept a lower return profile on that money, or a more long-term one, it might be more right to say, and that these are means that we could invest in the long-term to get investment going, especially in those countries in Africa that have very big problems at all calling for some commercial interest. This is actually one of the main budgets that the Stortinget is discussing, because this is where we can help prevent war, crisis and conflict. And in all prevention work, whether it's large or small, we know that there's less achievement in it. It's the long-term, the small amounts, the small projects, the girls who get education – that's what we know that really works in the fight against poverty in the world: that girls and women get education and the possibility of their own income. There won't be a big click on CNN of it, but that's what slowly changes the world. As you can see, this budget had deserved a much greater attention. This is also where the paradoxes come when we, for example. sees how much we spend on warfare in Afghanistan, which could have been much better spent on aid, on reconstruction of Afghanistan, because it is the effort that is being put in place, which will show whether what is now going on in Afghanistan can be summed up successfully in 20 years – if refugees get a hold of their heads, if roads are being built, if all those who know only about the war have another civil society to which they can contribute. Then I would like to enter two special conflict areas. One is the situation in Iraq. From the SV's point of view, this matter has been dealt with many times in the Storting, and we are very clear that the worst possible option in Iraq is a war. But what is important in this context is what is primarily about removing the embassy in Iraq. We have been contacted by many aid organisations, who are just saying that in the situation we now have, we need a lookout for humanitarian work in Iraq. It's a very exciting situation, and we can't understand the reason why we're going to put this embassy in the situation that we're going to have. That is why SV is also very clear about this point of view in the position. The second is the Middle East. It is a conflict that is often drowning in the debate that is now taking place. I think that is partly because a possible peaceful outcome of the conflict between the Middle East parties seems hopeless. The other thing is because there are other places that steal the attention. But one day like this one should remember what kind of humanitarian crisis you actually have on the Palestinian side. So it's going to be over 85 pst. the population of Gaza lives below the poverty line. On the West Bank, it's 58 pst. It is a poverty and a disillusioned mood that can only lead to increased conflicts. Many of the 145,000 Palestinians who worked inside Israel before the last intifada have been deprived of their income. And it is clear that the crisis that exists means that very many families have very heavy times, but also that there is little investment in relation to peace. In this situation, it is very regrettable that Norway’s response is to cut aid in relation to the Middle East and not to follow a high level in this respect. That's one of the areas that we ourselves prioritise in this setting. But it's clear that what would really suit with putting pressure on Israel was if the US's attitude was changed, and the US's money to back up under Israel's war machine was used to force them to contribute to a peaceful solution. In many other contexts, for example, we are discussing: The money fund, the World Bank, the major structural programmes. This is closely linked to the potential contribution of the aid budget in the fight against poverty. This means that focusing on the small voice Norway can contribute to these institutions will be very important, while focusing on WTO negotiations is also important. It would be pointless if Norway were to participate for example. where the Fund imposes structural adjustment programmes in countries where it will involve significant cuts in public welfare, where these are countries characterised by great poverty, by a small rich elite who do not contribute to the community but who can avoid the community, while we ourselves make completely different demands for standards for our own prosperity. Norway’s prosperity is not built up by unilateral economic liberalism and capital forces that have been able to sustain freely, but by a combination of foreign capital and governance. And that is precisely the opportunity that other countries that are building up from poverty must also have. I would like to address the suggestions that SV has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e291	The representative Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e294	Extreme poverty is our biggest political challenge, and the Christian People's Party is concerned that there will be an ever-increasing gap between rich and poor countries. We are concerned because this gap makes the world insecure, and because it bears witness to a lack of care, respect and equivalency. One of the reasons why the Christian People's Party is in the Government is that we want offensive development policies. It was therefore nice to get some praiseworthy words by Kristin Halvorsen for just that. The Christian People's Party will give the fight against poverty top priority, and we will fight hard to get this done. We also show it in concrete action. Aid was the harvest’s budget win, with an increase of 856 million. kr. For 2003, therefore, 0.93 pst. of GNI to aid. It's a step on the way to the goal of 1 pst. of GNI. The government parties entered into a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party without any cut in the aid! For the Christian People's Party, it is a great victory that benefits the poorest, especially given that the Progress Party cuts SEK 5.7 billion, primarily linked to the development aid in its alternative budget. When we know how difficult the budgetary rounds were, it says something about how strongly the Christian People's Party prioritised help to the world's poorest. The co-operation administration has a clear poverty strategy. So 40 pst is going on. of assistance to LDCs. That is why our countries of cooperation are also among the poorest countries in the world. For this reason, we give priority to the poorest people in these countries. We're betting on making the weakest stronger. We want to fight ignorance. There are still 125 million children lacking basic education, and the Government is therefore increasing the investment in education by more than 200 million. kr – this is because education is a human right and because education reduces poverty and promotes peace, democracy and development. Education opens up knowledge of policies, economics and social rights. Education enables people to protect their own health. It is unfortunately no obvious that this is a right of all people. The majority of those without education are girls. The government therefore prioritises increasing funding for the UNICEF Education for Girls programme. Fighting poverty means combating the HIV and AIDS epidemic. Every day, 14,000 people in the world are infected with HIV. Africa is the hardest hit. Here, 13.4 million children under the age of 15 are orphans as a result of AIDS. In addition, all the children who live with sick or dying parents come. UNICEF Director Carol Bellamy calls for a stronger global commitment to these children. She says that almost without exception these orphans are being neglected. They're poorly fed, they're uneducated, and they're mentally struggling. An overall foreign committee expresses concern about the extent of the AIDS epidemic. Norway is today the third largest donor to the UN's fight against HIV and AIDS. The government will continue its efforts, with a particular focus on prevention. Today, the world feels insecure, with internal warriors, terror threats, land struggles and the struggle for resources. But it's useful to work for peace. Today's Nobel Prize winner, Jimmy Carter, is a good example. Carter has brought her faith and her value into the struggle for a better world. On this day, just two and a half hours before Jimmy Carter receives the peace prize, it's nice that a total accumulation will intensify the fight for peace and reconciliation. We are proud of the Norwegian efforts in the peace negotiations in Sri Lanka. When the negotiators now agree on the principles of a new federal state, it is a historic decision. A 19-year war, in which 64,000 people have lost their lives and 800,000 have been driven away, now appears to be going to the end. We are also proud of Norway's efforts in the peace process done in Sudan. The parties to the conflict have now shown that they want a peace agreement, and it is therefore important that we on the Norwegian side show willingness to continue to support it. We must also stand up in Europe. In the Balkans, in former Eastern European countries and in Central Asia, the challenges are great. If there is no commitment to democracy building with good governance, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights in these countries, there could be threats to peace in Europe as well. We know that peace is not just the absence of war. That is why we need to focus on long-term measures that can promote peace and trust among conflicting groups. Peacebuilding involves a broad approach that includes policy, security policy, economic and social instruments. It is absolutely essential that the authorities respect the human rights. The Christian People's Party believes that the situation for the protection of religious rights is worrying. Centers for Religious Freedom in Washington claim in this year’s report that freedom of belief in the world has generally been too degrading. The report challenges the fact that the elite in the international community is highly secularised and that belief is not taken into account as an important factor in human life and in political change. We know that in China, Vietnam, Belarus, Pakistan and many other countries minorities are actively and deliberately persecuted for their faith. It's a problem that hit the weakest groups in society hardest, and it's a development the Christian People's Party will be involved in fighting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e320	We are facing a very demanding international situation, and that is how many questions it would have been tempting to raise today. But in the light of the very limited timeframe we have for this debate, I will limit my contribution to six themes, directly related to the budget. Point 1: The Central Party is satisfied with the assistance framework. It takes us a step closer to the 1 pst. goal, and that's good. The government, and especially the Christian People's Party, shall have the honor for this. However, the foreign minister's share of the external budget is scarce and it is unfortunate that this proportion was further weakened under the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. This particularly affects project cooperation with Russia, which the Central Party believes is wrong. The Centre Party has prioritised increased support for Russia's cooperation in its alternative budget. Point 2: This year, the funds for press, cultural and information work will be reduced. In this area, we don't need to cut, but rather a significant reinforcement. Taking into account a globalised world, it has never been more important to use foreign cultural engagement than it is now. The use of culture to build bridges and to create cross-border understanding is an unused resource in Norwegian foreign policy. Where languages do not extend, cultural activities can help to create a different and deeper understanding. The centre party is actively using this tool, and therefore, in our alternative budget, we have also strengthened this part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' business by 20 million. kr. Point 3: The Central Party is pleased that the entire Committee stresses the importance of the work of the Human Rights House Foundation and that there is a consensus that the Foundation must have greater financial predictability in its work. Point 4: The Central Party is also pleased that an overall committee more than suggests that Plan Norway should be able to have a framework agreement, so that Plan can also be ensured more predictability in its work. Point 5: There have been signs from the Government that Norway will cut off all participation in UN peacekeeping operations in Africa. That shouldn't happen! Norwegian participation in peacekeeping operations in Africa should be strengthened. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is a matter of Norway's credibility, both in relation to our willingness to support UN peacekeeping operations and in relation to our commitment to Africa. Norway was elected to the Security Council following an intensive campaign, where two out of three priorities depended on our desire to strengthen UN peacekeeping operations and strengthen peace and security in Africa. I hope and believe that these priorities meant more than that they were good election campaigns, and expect the government to turn around on this issue. Point 6: The budget proposes that the embassies in Baghdad and Abu Dhabi be closed and that the trade consulates in Miami, Hamburg and Hong Kong be converted into honorary consulates in general. The Central Party believes that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should have considerable freedom of action in relation to how he uses his human resources, but at the same time believes that it would be very unwise to put the embassies in Abu Dhabi and Baghdad. In Abu Dhabi, business clearly shows that this is one of the embassies they need to be able to work well. This should be given weight and the embassy should be maintained. In the case of Baghdad, in the opinion of the Centre Party, it will be a completely wrong signal to the Iraqi authorities to withdraw at that time. In the tense situation we now have in relation to Iraq, all countries should feel responsible for contributing to dialogue. Furthermore, it will be important for all Norwegian authorities to secure unhidden and unfiltered information from Iraq, which can be obtained by having their own people on site. And last but not least, Norway should have people in Baghdad to maintain contact with the opposition in Iraq, and thereby provide the best possible information on how the opposition can be supported most effectively. This could be an important contribution to the Iraqi people's ability to steer the dictator in Baghdad. In other words, the central party's clear view is that the embassy in Baghdad should be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e347	As the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs earlier today, there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy. It is in itself an important value for a small country. The Labour Party had a budget line in its financial position that would provide a somewhat higher framework for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget than is currently being adopted. In particular, it is worrying that it will now be less frequented until the important project cooperation Norway has in our neighbourhoods. First, I would like to stress that we in the Workers' Party are very pleased that the Right is involved in an increase in the aid budget. This means that an even wider majority is established behind a high level of Norway’s international efforts to help reduce poverty in the world. The Workers' Party is also largely associated with the Government's priorities in the aid budget. Assistance is one of the components of a comprehensive development policy. The framework conditions for debt, trade, industrial development and the country’s own development policies are other important factors. Aid alone cannot solve poverty problems. Countries must be able to cope with themselves. In order to develop in the world’s poorest countries, countries need to participate in the world’s trading system. They must be guaranteed effective market access for their products. During the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development, Norway made a major effort to prevent WTO legislation from overarching important environmental agreements. That's good. At the same time, new barriers to trade must not be developed. In Johannesburg, agricultural and trade policy was an important topic, without me seeing that this has been very well captured by Norwegian media. The patience of developing countries with the protectionist policies of the rich countries has been exhausted. It is very worrying when parts of Africa’s agriculture are being cut off because of the rich countries’ subsidies to their own businesses and the dumping of food on the markets of developing countries. One of the elements of the WTO ministerial declaration in Doha last November was to integrate better the poorest countries into the trading system and world trade. I'm glad the government will follow up on this. In order for these countries to actually have goods to sell, the rich part of the world must also help the poor countries to develop agriculture. This was strongly underlined during the Johannesburg Summit. Non-governmental organisations and civil society play an important role in Norwegian development policy. In particular, voluntary organisations are important in order to create increased involvement in Norway on aid policy. For many people, the father system represents an offer to contribute more, while drawing close to the problems. Many in Norway have both the economy and the will to contribute positively. In the nomination, the Committee refers in particular to the assistance organisation Plan Norway. This is an organisation that has broad support and great activity. Plan Norway has 80,000 fathers in Norway and is part of the larger Plan International, which is represented in 60 countries. The organisation shall enter into negotiations on any framework agreement and the Committee considers this to be positive with a view to making the organisation more predictable in its work. In the case of the so-called non-ODA-approved part of the aid budget, the Workers' Party is considering the reduction in the budget of 49 million. SEK for project cooperation with our neighbourhoods. Clearly, it is in Norway's interest to develop a close relationship with Russia. North-West Russia is rich in resources and can become an even more important area for Norway in the long term. All activities that strengthen cooperation, knowledge and cross-border relations are of the good. Nuclear safety cooperation is obviously an area of direct relevance to us. Radioactive pollution can be cross-border, either directly or in the form of contamination of the Barents Sea and the fish present there. The pioneering efforts of Norway in this field are internationally recognised. There is hope that major international funding mechanisms will operate in relation to environmental cooperation in the area, such as: EU and G8 programmes. Of course, it is positive that more people can help solve the huge environmental problems in North-West Russia. At the same time, it is unfortunate that we reduce Norwegian efforts during this period, as this may weaken Norway’s unique position and our ability to promote particular Norwegian interests. The Labour Party, as is known in its alternative draft budget, had an increase in this item of 19 million. kr. We also believe that there are very good reasons why the health and social sector must be given priority. Over many years, Norway and Russia have developed extensive health cooperation. We see very worrying public health features in North-West Russia. We have witnessed the emergence of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, but also major problems related to alcohol and drug abuse. The Friville organisations show a strong commitment to enhanced cooperation with Russia. It is very important that this work continues and can be further developed. In particular, I would like to present the network of North-West Russia, where 15 organisations are responsible for a number of projects that contribute to the improvement of health and social services both in public and in civil society in North-West Russia. The difference in living standards between Norway and Russia is considerable and represents a challenge in itself. We have a long tradition in Norway to cooperate with our neighbouring countries. It's also help for self-help. We're dependent on each other. Therefore, it is very worrying when, in today's situation, the Government sends out signals of stepping down efforts for the population of Russia. Instead, the Norwegian authorities should support the planned efforts of the large organisations in this important area of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e383	An increased effort in favor of the world's poorest is one of the trademarks of this Government. The government is on track to achieve its objective of providing assistance by 2005 at the latest. of GNI. With the significant income that the country has, this amount is going to be greater than ever before. The more important it is that one at the same time develops a similar critical attitude to how such amounts of money are managed. These include: on three aspects: that the administrative apparatus does not swell as a direct parallel to the amounts a managing director can defend such a large use of money against the Norwegian donor society, or more precisely the Norwegian taxpayers, who have a claim to certainty that the funds reach the many good purposes they are intended to guarantee to the recipients with a well-founded and good conscience that – yes, we are capable enough to deal with this effort and therefore know that the resources reach the final stage out there, with minimal disappearance in administration, corruption and other en route pockets This is not a simple goal. On the contrary! If we are to be able to live up to such expectations, it takes a determined and systematic effort to become sufficiently professional. On such a background, it is gratifying and timely that the Government has launched an external evaluation and review of the entire organisational apparatus of development policy. It shall cover both the bilateral and multilateral aspects of development policy, including management, which are covered both by NORAD and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs. The Committee is therefore also unanimous in its expectation that the Government will come back with any proposals for changes to the administrative framework resulting from the review. As important as our own administration is the management of the many organisations through which we channel the funds. It concerns the great multilateral, like the United Nations, as well as the rich flora of competent non-governmental organisations. Norway must have a driving role in further efforts to improve cooperation and coordination within the multilateral system and with the beneficiary countries. In particular, the national poverty strategies, the so-called PRSP, are suitable for promoting cooperation, and especially at country level. By continuing the development of the PRSP in national processes with the widest possible public participation, the basis for a common structure of work, objectives and evaluation for both countries, NGOs and donor countries through bilateral and multilateral channels is laid. The evidence that the aid money comes unscrupulous for the purposes for which it is intended is not simple. The UN's Millennium Goals must continue to be broken down into more concrete targets. These should be designed in such a way that they can be directly related to measurable parameters and indicators on the most objective basis possible. Here it's obviously a long way to go yet. A survey of several of the organisations involved gave me the result that everyone is concerned about the challenge, but only a few could say something concrete about what an actual development work was doing to improve the analytical methods themselves. However, the World Bank could report on the planned development of this field of methodology through the last approximately one. 30 years, and with continued considerable efforts to adapt the tool to the new policy objectives developed by the Bank. This will give the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss in more detail, when one based on St.prp. No 33 for 2002-2003 on the consent to recapitalisation of the International Development Fund, the IDA, will also have the opportunity to debate the activities of the World Bank and the Monetary Fund themselves. The government is also developing assistance in both Norwegian and international contexts. An important innovation that was put into use in the current year’s budget is the transitional aid scheme. Humanitarian aid organisations have for a number of years pointed to the problems of creating a good link between short-term humanitarian action and long-term development work in conflict-affected countries. The transitional assistance shall help to cover this gap and Norway’s decision to establish its own allocation for this purpose has given international attention. It is widely agreed that health and HIV/AIDS work and education are priority themes. Two sentences on these two challenges can end my post: Firstly, the extent of the AIDS epidemic in several African countries is now so large that it is no longer a purely health issue in several places but a complete disintegration of society. And secondly, no investment makes such a good return on both poverty and the whole social development of poor countries as ensuring that young girls get school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e414	Norwegian foreign policy must have as its primary responsibility to safeguard Norwegian interests through committed international cooperation, with a view to international decoupling, lasting peace, free world trade and respect for fundamental human rights. Therefore, we believe that open markets are the best way to create economic development. That is why trade barriers and protectionist measures need to be drastically reduced and industrialised countries should abolish customs duties on industrial products in the framework of the current WTO negotiations. Poverty hinders development in large parts of the world, but developing countries themselves have to take responsibility for pursuing policies that benefit communities and facilitate growth and development. Effective assistance from rich countries can contribute positively, including in the case of goods and services. Therefore, the role of private industry in aid should be strengthened and the rich countries should provide better market access for products from developing countries, in particular in agriculture and textiles. There is little point in enabling a country to produce export goods, when it is not willing to buy them, or obstacles are being placed in the way. An important contribution to promoting trade and relations between countries and Norway are our foreign stations. These help to be our eyes and ears out, and have a good knowledge of the needs of the countries for both imports and exports. Therefore, it is important for business to maintain these also in the case of Nordics abroad and in the case of assistance. We believe it must be an important reason before a foreign station is closed, the exception may have to be the embassy in Baghdad. The Progress Party will highlight the importance that Norwegian foreign policy must primarily aim to ensure important Norwegian interests, and that this must be reflected in the priorities of the Ministry and our foreign stations. Key interests in the coming years are enlargement of the EEA area, WTO negotiations, NATO cooperation and business interests. The Progress Party will also point to the worrying world situation following the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, which poses major challenges. Well-organised terrorist networks pose a threat to the entire democratic world. Therefore, Norway must continue to put the fight against international terrorism and crime on its agenda, and also in its priorities. As regards assistance, the Progress Party is sceptical about the current strategy of Norwegian aid work, where a large part of the assistance is channelled through State aid actors such as NORAD. I will in no way deny the competence of Norway in this area, but I believe that the unhelp to be provided in the future should be channelled more through coordinated international efforts through the UN and through voluntary Norwegian and international organisations. It is also necessary to impose more requirements for achieving objectives than at present and to expect evidence of the results achieved. This must be a requirement for all those who provide public assistance in order to achieve maximum efficiency. Where the recipient countries of aid oppose the transparency of their aid or much of the aid disappears in the State distribution apparatus, it is appropriate to require that assistance be given directly to the groups for which it is intended. It is also necessary to highlight how the country uses its own funds when choosing the country of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e427	Let me first tell you how pleased I am with the budget that is now being adopted. It will give us a good opportunity to pursue Norwegian foreign policy in the coming year. Now there is a lot of foreign policy that cannot be expressed over appropriations, but some can, and this puts us in a good position to continue working for peace and reconciliation. This gives us a good profile of Eastern Europe work, and it gives us good opportunities to work in the Balkans and in the Caucasus in Central Asia, which in many ways are Europe's neighbourhoods. Now there are not many controversial points within this budget, but one of them is administrative changes, including embassies. I notice that the committee wants a new assessment of the embassy in Abu Dhabi. I would like to, but I would also like to point out that all the factors underlying the decision are very well known, so that there are no new factors that can now be brought in. But I am well pleased with the emphasis many, including the committee chairman, have had on this being the Government's decision. I also think that's a real principle attitude. I want to mention that it is enough in one area Stortinget in which case must contribute to a decision, and that is when it comes to money. We can't run the embassy for free. That means that the Storting as the granting authority in that case must be prepared to make budgetary redeployments in order to have the embassy. But I understand that you want to accept the assessment that the Government overall wants to make, and I am very pleased with that. Once we have come up with this proposal, it is simply because the alternative use of money we think in many ways is better, and we point to the three possibilities the Stortinget has if you want another result: One is to go into the East European budget. But this is in direct conflict with, among other things, The progress party says, and I get that very well. It has been a wish for me to keep as much of the Eastern European profile as possible. I think it's a very important purpose. The other thing would be to go into the press and culture area. We could do that, too. But I notice that the Workers' Party here says that this should come up, and so do I. Ideally, I fully agree with that. Here's the area where you could use more money. And then you're inside the third area. It's into its own administration, which can be divided into two. When it comes to another embassy or representation out there, there's a good thing you can do, but I think you have to assume that there would also be protests. For example, I wanted to. believe that we should preserve the pattern of representation we have in Russia. Of course, you can consider this differently, but I think it has been a proper balance we have made here. The other thing we can do is go into home administration. But then I would like to remind you that in this budget, as you will see from the figures, we have already reduced this quite considerably in the sense that we are more sober to next year than we have been so far. Christopher Stensaker illustrated very well what major challenges we are now facing, which must be dealt with from home appliances, and I will not recommend going into it and cutting further. So there's unfortunately no hokuspocus in this case, the factors are well on the table. And so we've made this choice because we've thought that the purposes I've now mentioned are actually more important, although in a non-profit world you could also want to maintain the station in Abu Dhabi. But I understand that the Storting will accept the result the Government is coming to terms with, and I am pleased with that. I have also noticed that there is some disagreement about the embassy in Baghdad. I would like to remind you that the assumption has always been that this was linked to Norwegian Security Council membership and the chairmanship of the Sanctions Committee. It is now over, and it has therefore been a natural consequence to shut down this embassy. That for other reasons you might think of changing your mind, I want to understand, but there is no breach of the assumption that we have now entered. However, I would like to say that a few of the premises I have heard today are not clearly obvious to me. The fact that Baghdad should be a very good place to get the «unhildet» information, which I understand the wording is, is not very clear to me. I would also like to say that Baghdad may not be the place where you will be able to deal with the Iraqi opposition first, to say the least. I think that's a reason. There are many places I would rather have an embassy than in Baghdad, to say it like this. Just in conclusion about the Middle East: the post in the Middle East is, as the text shows, only part of what we do in the Middle East. We have a total exposure of over half a billion dollars in the current year. I'm pretty sure we're also going to have a significant commitment there in the future, so you shouldn't be staring blindly at the long-term assistance as it says. There's only one of many components in the Middle East. We have a very high level of involvement in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e456	I'm not going to go into this debate about the organisation of our foreign representations, on which the Foreign Minister spent a lot of his speech, because, as I said, it's the government's responsibility to organize the department and the outdoor apparatus. I think it's important that the Storting sticks to it. But when that's said, I expect that by adding the goodwill you should be able to find a solution to what at least a majority in this room is concerned about. I see what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that there are no new factors in the government's view, because I believe that the government has gone through all the factors that we have had on the table during committee treatment. But the reason why we have a treatment in Stortinget is that society outside should be able to come up with its views towards Stortinget. We've passed them on. On that basis, I hope you can find a solution, and then the government gets to the Storting with what it thinks is best. Something else is not really in the setting that has been presented. I now just want to ask how the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the allocation to Russia and Central and Eastern Europe is so cut as what is done both through the budget and in comparison with the Progress Party. That was the exact opposite of what the Right stood for when they were in opposition. I'm assuming that it's not because there's less need, that these cuts come, but that they come because you have to do it in a broader context and in a compromise. I would like to ask how to assess the need to take such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e463	I shall certainly add the goodwill on the question of the embassy structure. But I don't just need kindness, I also need money. And what I tried to say is that there's no hocuspocus, where there's money somewhere, that there's some unused million dollars somewhere. If you want to say yes to this, we have to say yes to this, for example. Go into the last mention of Thorbjørn Jagland, namely environmental aid for Eastern Europe. I assume that the relationship between the 02 area and the 03 area is not wanted affected by the Storting, and I think I read the Storting correctly there. We're holding this scandal. It will then affect either Eastern Europe, press and cultural work or other parts of the administration. It's either for other outstations, or we're going to go down further in the case of the home appliance. And I'm actually not sure if we have so much slack there that it won't then go beyond one of the tasks that I mentioned, and that, among other things. Christopher Stensaker mentioned. So there's no hokuspokus. It's the Storting and not the Government that's granting authority, and the factors are ready to make a decision if you want to maintain the embassy in Abu Dhabi. But I have to make a recommendation about cutting along one of these four lines if I come back to the Stortinget. But I've been thinking, after going through it, that what has the slightest harm is just taking the embassy in Abu Dhabi, because I think the other things are actually more important. If the Stortinge believes otherwise, you can make a decision about it. But you haven't done that in the setting here, and the factors are there. As far as Russia is concerned, it's probably like here, as in a number of other areas, that we have a very high level of commitment. The amount is now – if I do not remember completely wrong – 320 million. kr, which is not a negligible sum, to this area. I'm sure you'll be able to spend more money than that. However, this maintains Norway’s high profile in an important area. I also want to say that for that part of what's used out there, we've also been favored this year, without it being planned in any way, by the exchange rates, which means that the value of this money is greater now than they were.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e470	I fully agree with Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen regarding an embassy in Baghdad, that Baghdad may not be the place to obtain the best information from. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was in his intervention in many important fields of our foreign policy. As far as our foreign stations are concerned, there is a great deal of uncertainty among their users. It is undoubtedly important both for Norway as a nation and for users that our foreign stations are maintained and that new ones are created where Norway has financial interests. In our minority proposal, there's another distribution of Framework Area 4, where we're increasing the cap. 101 with 20 million. kr. I am aware that developments in the world are changing, and that it is therefore also necessary to make an assessment of our foreign stations. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when can we expect the structure and location of our foreign stations to be clarified? I'm asking because I think a lot of people are excited about that answer. So, what is the time perspective of the Foreign Minister here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e479	I am not quite sure if I got the answer to the question. In the case of the special request made by the Deposit Committee on Abu Dhabi, there is one station. I have responded to that, namely that in that case you have to come back to it, since it is the Storting and not the Government that is granting authority, and then something has to be cut down to make room for it. I've given the options The Storting there has. We'll be able to get back to that. As far as the structure is concerned, it has been established. It is set out in the Annexes to the budget documents. And in addition to the five proposals we have, we wouldn't be proposing anything now. It is indicated in the documents that we believe that Norway should be represented in the new NATO countries, which will otherwise also be EU countries, so that it will be important for Norway to influence clear Norwegian national interests. But such a structure will always be subject to change. I think we have to always be aware that there will never be any final structure on such a device. We have to evaluate it every year when we see how the tasks and the financial framework evolve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e486	I think perhaps the Foreign Affairs Committee can immediately admit that this debate has not been the one with the greatest flight that Stortinget has ever experienced, because we are, therefore, deeply involved in discussing the location of various embassies and consulates – a matter on which the majority of the Committee believes it is up to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to decide. When we have engaged in the question of an embassy in Baghdad, it is not about hanging over the shoulder of the foreign minister and making sure that he does not leave a post here or create one there. It's about the level of ambition we're going to have in relation to a conflict that might be the one that's really going to be the big conflict next year. Here's a story for Norway. Our starting point has not been to sit in Baghdad and send faxes on what Saddam Hussein said yesterday. Our starting point has been that it makes sense to have some people who can see for themselves what the situation is, if the relief work comes out, if there's anything reasonable you can do, and if we can make some other judgements than those we're probably getting from those who are going to be in command if there's a military action, that's the United States. So to a very concrete challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. On the SV side, we note that the position in the Right regarding Norway’s efforts in the role of peace brokers has changed. It's not like Jan Petersen's been going here for years and years and rejoicing that Norway has taken such a role in different conflicts in the world. But I know a slight start to a quiet jubilee from Jan Petersen when it comes to actually doing a reasonable job. We have failed so far in the Middle East, but we may have the opportunity to achieve some results in Sri Lanka. At least it's important that someone plays that role in being able to organize. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has changed his view, whether this is a role that the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks it makes sense for Norway to take, that we might be able to do so in more contexts, possibly on what premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e498	There were three points. The first thing it would be most inappropriate to agree! The other thing was Baghdad, where I don't have much to add, in the sense that we follow the assumptions that have always been there. I don't think an embassy is very central either in assessing the big political lines there. There are many other places than exactly in Baghdad this is going on. With regard to the third, about the peacekeeping operations, I don't put a moment to hide that I increasingly believe that this is important to us, not least because Norway is so far on the sideline of quite a number of processes, and has to work quite actively in order to be inside of the conflicts we're talking about. But it's also important by-products, because these are door openings that others have for free. It's just to accept that for an alienation it's the world of reality, and that's why we have to, I think, really have a clear idea that there's a double function there. And I think you should be very aware that it's not for Norway even we're doing this, but it's because we have the opportunity to make a difference. I sometimes have some bad taste in my mouth when we now get so many nice words associated with Sri Lanka, not because the Norwegian organizers don't make a very good effort – I'm proud of the people we have in this area – but it's the parties themselves and their will and their ability to do this in the future that's what's driving the peace process. Without the parties' will, we would not have had a chance at all. So they have an impressive willingness not only to put things behind them, but now to drive the solutions forward as well. That's why it's not just modesty from our side when we say we're organizers and nothing more. It is a reality. It is the parties who shall have the good words associated with this process. And that understanding of such a role, yes, maybe it's one of the most important things we can contribute to. So Norway isn't the one that's coming on stage and saying that now we're going to clean up. We can be useful when the parties themselves have the will.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e509	The central party is also pleased that it appears that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has changed its position on the Norwegian commitment to peace processes. It is good that he recognizes that this is both an important work in itself and that it is important for Norway’s international reputation. We, like others, have experienced the former Right Leader there, that he has been critical of the extent of this commitment, and that it has gone at the expense of other Norwegian interests in the neighbourhoods. So it's good, as we experience it, that the Foreign Minister has changed his mind about this. But it is unfortunate that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has turned completely countered, because the Government has now promoted a budget that significantly reduces its efforts towards Russia – despite Russia being our neighbour, the challenges are great, and the poverty gap between Norway and Russia is increasing. I hear the Foreign Minister answering questions from the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee defending this reduction, and he says that the commitment is maintained. But, of course, there's a connection between the commitment and the money that one makes available. I would therefore like to follow up on the previous question from the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ask whether the reduction in cooperation with Russia is an expression of a conscious priority on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and whether we must also expect this reduction to continue in the budgetary proposals from the Government for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e518	The actual description in the two points Åslaug Haga had was not very precise – to say it carefully. The first is about my perception of peacebrokers. The question gave the impression that I had been opposed. That's not right. What I've said before is that we have to carefully evaluate where we are. We still have to make sure to do that, because there are a lot of possible conflicts where the very prerequisite for success is not there. When I put so much emphasis on the parties' will, it was because I think in many ways it's one of the basic assumptions for getting there. They're the ones who have to push it forward. But what I'm saying is that this is going to be increasingly important than it has been. So I just noticed that the description of Åslaug Haga at that point was not very good. This applies to Russia, as far as the next point is concerned. If you look at the budget space, you'll see that it's not the dramatic differences you could think of when you heard Åslaug Haga. We still have a very significant amount that can be used in this area. We need to have a budget within the overall framework that is sound in a budget. That means I'm not budgeting anything for next year in this round. It would also be funny if we did it that way. From the many comments I have had on our assistance to Eastern Europe, I think Åslaug Haga already knows from the past that there is no long-term line for year to year to decrease. So I'm amazed that that question is at all asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e527	I don't think the Foreign Minister should be surprised at that – now he was in the wrong place! I respect the fact that we have had to make an agreement here, and that we have had to finance something by taking from many different items in the budget. But from that to minimizing that this is going to be a decrease of 49 million. kr – I don’t think you should do that. That is largely the amount – after my reminder, then – that right-wing thought you should add to this allocation when you were in opposition. Now you're reducing this appropriation by the same amount. I don't want to call it dramatic, but it's a significant signal – a negative signal – compared to what Jan Petersen, as an opposition politician claimed was necessary, namely to twist Norway's efforts more against the neighbourhoods of foreign policy. So you go the other way. If this is a signal of what can happen in the years to come, it won't be lucky. I think that the Foreign Minister should not devalue it so much, but get ready to fight for next year's budget negotiations and make sure that there are no further reductions in this, in a situation where we see, among other things. in the health and social field, the need for significant efforts, inter alia. in North-West Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e536	I shall not be so indiscreet to tell what places I have saved Thorbjørn Jagland out of this hall! We can get back to that in the rotunda afterwards. First of all, the question of the device itself. I noticed that Thorbjørn Jagland was now especially concerned with social issues and health. I fully agree that there are also important areas, and we should focus on that. But at the same time, I think that nuclear pollution and the environment in the north must be a very important part of the assistance we provide. Fortunately, Russia is now in an economic trend that is quite good, although its gross domestic product is surprisingly small when you look at its size. But they're in a good trend. Nevertheless, there is a need for assistance, and I must say that the environment is something that will concern the whole area, not just Russia. I think it's important to take care of it. As for what I thought was unreasonable, it was in itself the question of suggesting that we were looking for long-term decommissioning plans. If we had been, of course, we would have taken everything now -- to say it like this. Once we get to the distribution that we have, it's based on the total rigour that the budget is facing. But we wanted to protect it as far as we could, and that is, among other things. the background to the debate on Abu Dhabi that we have had here earlier today. I'd like to acknowledge that in the opposition we had a different device on this, but now the compromise, which the Storting is very satisfied with, is that there's a distribution between the 02 and 03 areas, which binds a lot on this. That's a distribution that we're dealing with. But that distribution has the price that it is not as easy to grant to North-West Russia as it would otherwise have been. But I can confirm that this is an area that I think is very important, and for which I would like to fight, and as I said, I have fought for it just by the priorities of the totality that I have set out a number of times today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e547	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e550	It is gratifying to note that the budgetary position confirms a broad consensus on the fight against poverty and the broad lines of Norwegian development policy. It includes both the arrangements for cooperation and the level of assistance, and that is good. Interestingly, this consensus is also consistent with an increasingly strong international consensus in this area, both in terms of objectives and instruments, including: the thousand-year targets and how to achieve them. In fact, consensus has never been more international. The UN's Millennium Goals and the fight against poverty are also, as stated in the budget proposal, the basis for our own development cooperation. The action plan on poverty reduction is our own response to what we can do from the Norwegian side so that the world community can achieve these goals. UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan presented the first progress report following the decision of the Millennium Assembly. So what's it like two years later? His speech is clear: we are slowing down and need to increase the efforts of the world's poor if we are to achieve the goals. It is therefore also particularly gratifying that the Committee follows the Government's proposal to increase Norwegian aid to 0.93 p.m. of gross national income for next year. And it's not, as some representatives have mentioned in their posts, cut something on the aid budget on the ODA-approved part. It has gone unscathed through the Storting and will do so today, and we are satisfied with that. Support for such a priority is also great in the people, we have fresh polls showing this. There is a very strong welcome – in an international context very strong – the importance of combating poverty and high Norwegian efforts in this area. But how are we going to achieve the goals? We are in the middle of a budget debate, and aid is important, but alone absolutely not enough. The debates and decisions the Stortinget will take place in other areas next year are also of great importance. International framework conditions and conditions need to be improved in terms of both debt, trade and investment. The results of Monterrey, Doha and Johannesburg must be followed up. Not least with regard to trade and the WTO, the Greatness of the Time to Come will face important discussions on issues of major importance to the situation of developing countries. Here, it is important that development policy is also the focus of Storting's own discussions. In addition, aid is very important. I would just like to mention that the comment that the Committee has in relation to the budgetary structure and the Storting's own transparency regarding our priorities in this area, we have noted. We are constantly working on improving the budgetary structure and will also contribute to an improvement in the 2004 budget proposal. It will include, among others: based on the reporting of about the thousand-year targets from part of our countries of cooperation, as the representative Vallersnes was also involved in his intervention. However, because budgetary systems are complicated and it takes time to change them, we probably also need to use 2004 to draw on experiences that can enable us to achieve the further improvements that we want to make in the 2005 budget. In addition, the management review that we now have in the whole area of development will also have an impact here, and it can affect the way we plan, budget and report. I'll get back to that in case. Let me mention four areas as I think it's worth highlighting in relation to the budget. The first is the Government's effort to escalate the educational effort, not just in general, where we add up to an increase of 15 pst. bilateral and multilateral, but also, and not least, in the case of education for girls. Education is job no. 1, that's the most important contribution we can make for countries to get on their feet. I would like to mention here that we will present an education strategy for the investment in education in January, where Minister of Education Kristin Clemet and I are going to travel to Tanzania and mark this from the Government. The size will be briefed on the follow-up to this strategy in the next year’s budget proposal. The second field I want to mention is the HIV/AIDS issue. This is a huge development disaster. It has enormous effects for Africa, 20 pst. reducing gross domestic product by 2010 for the worst affected countries, but it is becoming a ‘globalisation’ also of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which is also approaching our neighbourhoods. This is going to be the focus of international attention, and it is absolutely crucial that Norway is at the forefront of HIV/AIDS, that we continue the strong efforts made by the previous government, and that we continue to be at the forefront of UNAIDS and other HIV/AIDS actions. The third thing I want to mention is agriculture. We're adding a stake in the agricultural sector because it's in this field that most of the poor are present. If we're going to reach the poorest, we're going to have to invest more in this area. A report will come to me in February next year, and I will come back to Stortinget with the further follow-up and see this in conjunction with the business development strategy that we are following successively. The fourth and last area I want to mention is the Johannesburg Summit. We're following up what the government signaled about 375 million. DKK over three years in fresh funds in this area. We are also making a run for this in next year's state budget, but here we will focus in particular on renewable energy sources, tropical forests, the work on indigenous peoples and water. It's the UN's Water Year next year, and this will also be a strong focus of the Government in our priorities, and this too we will come back to the Storing with information about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e572	First, I want to say that there was a lot of positive in the articles of the Council of State. We are well aware of the Council's commitment to aid, among other things. Africa, but violent conflicts and lack of political stability are, as we know, fundamental obstacles to the development of Africa. When Stortinget discussed Norway’s membership of the UN Security Council, peacekeeping in Africa was one of three priority areas. Support for UN missions in Africa is in line with the UN's call for rich countries to bear a greater share of the burden of UN peacekeeping operations. Norway has a long tradition of aid to Africa while participating in peacekeeping operations on the continent. Doubts were raised about continued Norwegian participation in peace operations in Africa, among others. in the evening post on 26 November this year. At the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, however, we have come to agreed remarks in line with what I think is the position both in the Christian People's Party and in the Workers' Party. However, the budget agreement with the Progress Party cut Norway’s voluntary contribution to international criminal justice by 5 million. kr. When we know that the Special Court of Sierra Leone is based solely on voluntary contributions, this is unfortunate. In sum, this gives some bad signals about Norway's involvement in Africa, and I will now ask the Council of State to confirm that Norway will maintain its broad commitment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e581	Norway has traditionally had a high profile in terms of participation in UN peace operations, and not least in UNIFIL strength before the withdrawal of the exposure. But now the Norwegian heavy involvement is concentrated on operations in the Balkans and Afghanistan, and it is important to stress that this does not imply that Norway has changed its view on the importance of a strong UN, but it reflects the fact that actors other than the UN have also become more involved in multinational operations. Both KFOR and ISAF are operations with a clear UN mandate. This is the constitutional responsibility of other ministers, but let me just say briefly that Norwegian participation in UN-led operations in Africa also includes a small number of civil police. So we have a presence in that context. In addition, Norway is also the leader of the very successful monitoring operation for the peace agreement in the Nuba Mountains in Sudan and is also taking part in the military. So Norway has an engagement in Africa, and Norway is still going to have an involvement in Africa. Of course, me and the government have a strong desire to have the widest possible commitment. In this way, we also agree and support the majority's comments in the position, which comment positively on this. These are, of course, views that the Government also shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e586	I will be allowed to ask the Council of State a question about an area that was probably not affected in her posts, namely the desire for more budget support and less project assistance. State Secretary Olav Runven says to the current aid: ‘Although project support has contributed very positively, it has nevertheless not achieved the desired macroeconomic impact.’ For us, it's not surprising. However, the challenge will be whether direct budget support achieves the desired effect, and not least whether the countries receiving this budget support are able to exploit it. Because, at least a good number of researchers will point out, the country needs to make some reforms to exploit that kind of assistance. The type of reform will focus on trade policy, fiscal policy, the relationship between state and private governance of the economy, how to limit the free flow of foreign and domestic capital, how to manage ownership, how to cope with the security of expropriation, and how to put obstacles to business – to mention some elements and factors that should be in place to bring about the social change and positive developments needed to bring the population out of poverty. Can the Council of States say anything about how, in some form of direct budget support, the Norwegian authorities will ensure and actively work to ensure that some of these elements, as I mentioned now, and possibly others, can be followed up by the different countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e597	Project support has proved to be an instrument which also contributes to the lack of transparency in many cooperation countries. Let me take Tanzania as an example. In 1998–99, there were 10,000 projects in which the international donors were involved and which had to be reported individually. Many of these projects are not reported in the State budget and are not included in the overall macroeconomic management. This means that a good part of the money goes missing, and it also means that the finance minister's ability to manage is very limited. This also helps to increase the load on the receiver and is not an effective form of assistance. When it is additionally bound, costs increase further. That's why we are now going through and looking at what opportunities we have for conversion, and also for more use of budget support. At the same time, we're going to have two thoughts in our head at once. One is the importance of such a conversion, and the other is that it is accompanied by a strengthening of financial management and a strengthening of the framework conditions under which the representative was also involved in his statement. Norway shall increase its financial management, financial management, control and anti-corruption efforts. It belongs very closely to such a transformation, to ensure that the funds come to those who need it, and go to poverty reduction and, in the next round, economic growth and development. In the case of the special circumstances in which the representative was involved, which include: with tax systems, predictability, predictable framework conditions to do, these are also issues on which we focus. Not least in the strategy for industrial development in the south, we have committed ourselves to a strong commitment in this area, and we now have a country review that shows a little about the challenges we face and how we can contribute more to meeting them in the various countries under review.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e604	Girls and education have been mentioned by many in today's debate, and I have to get a little fresh report from Guatemala, where the farmers say that the landowners were difficult to do in the past, but now it's even worse, because now their sons have been trained as lawyers. Then there's a private army and a lot of other irregular relationships. But we should be aware that this is a great need. What I wanted to develop in my line is that now that we have had a budgetary process, we have had a lot of hearings and met a lot of people, Nature and Youth, who are engaged in Eastern Europe, the Human Rights House, the Peace Council, to which we give little money – instead we give money to bullets and powder organisations. So there are many of the people involved, young people and others, even a shipowner we hit in the process – all of whom have a lot of policies, a lot of initiatives, and there are a few million of them that we're all for, but we can't find money for it in the budget. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has pointed out that the Stortinget must then take action and give money to those who are engaged in political work in Norway. We must not get into the situation that political initiatives that appear are going to kill in bureaucracy. Societal researchers, who otherwise wrote chronicles in the evening post, say that we spend a lot of time getting some small money to do a good job. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State how it will put the budget in the future, so that there may be funds and openness to ensure that good initiatives, just where they come from, come quickly into the budget, so that the political content of aid is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e611	I don't know which organisations or what the representative Jacobsen is looking for. If you look at the budget proposal, there will be figures on the extent to which the Norwegian budget has in relation to support for non-governmental organisations. It's actually almost unique in the international context. There is a large part of the budget that goes through non-governmental organisations. In fact, more is going through non-governmental organisations than the pure state-to-state assistance, the bilateral assistance. And that's -- even the discussion we had in the previous row of lines in relation to a good set of rules -- also a dilemma. Because we need to have a strong public sector that can function well and that can provide services to its population. On the Norwegian side, it is important that we contribute to it, and to good governance, and not just to all kinds of channels that go beyond the state. So that dilemma we also have to have a proper discussion about in Stortinget. Then willing and burning souls will receive support. And they get it. But we also need to make demands on them, which we demand for our countries of cooperation and for all other actors, so that they are able to deliver what they have said they will deliver. I do not feel that organisations are being ‘killed’ in the Norwegian bureaucracy. I feel that it is willingness to set up for the organisations that want it. And if you look at the extent of the support that organisations actually get, I can't believe it's possible to claim anything else. That things sometimes take time, you have to have a certain understanding of, but I like to take signals about flexibility compared to individual organisations. If that's what the representative Jacobsen is looking for, let's look at it, and see what opportunities we have to speed up the processing of applications. There are two individual organisations mentioned in the committee setting. The plan now has a process in place to see if a cooperation agreement can be reached. And in the case of the Human Rights House, we've contributed more than 2 million. NOK, but we are, of course, concerned with following up the committee setting in this respect. If there's any other relationship, let us know about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e622	The Minister of Development usually expresses himself very well, but on the issue of Norwegian participation in UN operations in Africa, I felt that the answer was very unclear, and therefore I want to drill a little. I understand that the Government has decided to withdraw Norway from peacekeeping UN operations in Africa on the grounds that the 10 million. kr that has been spent on this in the last year should be used for the military involvement in Afghanistan. Cutting support for UN missions in Africa is in violation of the UN's call for rich countries to bear a greater share of the burden of UN peacekeeping operations. Not later than one month ago, the UN called for more support. And the decision is definitely hard to understand on the basis of the goal Norway had in advance of membership of the Security Council, to put Africa's challenges at the forefront. In the context of aid, it is a clear Norwegian policy that we need to concentrate our efforts on Africa. So my question is: does the Minister for Assistance agree that Norway should end its commitment to UN peacekeeping operations in Africa? And if she is, does she not see that such a decision can damage Norway's credibility in relation to the general commitment to Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e633	The representative Haga sees me as unclear on this question, but there is something to be done to answer lines and questions that directly relate to the constitutional responsibilities of other government councils. I think most government councils will be, and that also applies to me. On this issue, the Minister of Defence has the constitutional responsibility for financing, and as such should have the line of the representative Haga. On the overall UN-related issues, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has the constitutional responsibility. I understand that the question is asked to me since I have a strong commitment to Africa, but the right answer is the other two councils. So very short to the question. I'm not aware of any decision in principle regarding the fact that you're no longer going to be present in Africa. There has been an assessment of the use of resources in relation to the budget in question, carried out by the Minister of Defence. Both the position of the Defence Committee on the budget and – as I said in my previous reply – the budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee have affected this issue, and the Government agrees with the assessments presented by our respective parties. That is why, as the Council of State – although I do not have the constitutional responsibility – I also support what is stated in the motion for a resolution that: ‘I believe that Norwegian contributions to peacekeeping operations in Africa and aid to Africa strengthen Norway’s credibility in the UN, as well as Norwegian reputation and trust in poor countries in general.The majority will further underline the importance of Norway’s participation in international operations with the UN mandate or under the UN regime’. I agree with this of course, and then the government gets back to how to follow up the committee positions, and that is when the other two councils, and especially the Minister of Defence, have the primary responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e647	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 910]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e665	As for the Svalbard budget, I just have to say that it's been a long time since I worked in Longyearbyen, early in the 1960s, and a lot has changed at that time. I was there a few years ago, and the town of Sverdrup, where I lived, was gone. The musk that went and bitten in the mountainside was gone. The materials store where I worked was also gone. I begin to ask myself the question: Has Svalbard also changed as such? Are the same criteria for maintaining residence and the mining-based society now applicable? The overall objective of the Svalbard policy is to have a firm enforcement of sovereignty, to comply with the Svalbard Treaty and to monitor compliance with the Treaty and to maintain stability and tranquillity in the area. It is also a task to preserve the unique wilderness nature and to maintain the Norwegian community on the island group. In the past, much of the revenue from catching people came around the island. It's also very limited now. Salvation of polar bears and more conservation of nature mean that there are fewer opportunities to feed on the original. However, there has been strong growth in the tourism industry in Svalbard in recent years. It makes some people worry about the night. Especially when more and more protection is provided, are you going to have more travel lives up there? When I was up there, the Braathens landed on the sea ice. Today they have their own airport, and it's become a more modern city. But what you're going to feed on is basically the service industry. Nevertheless, the budget for Svalbard and Longyearbyen is rising by 6.3 pst. in relation to the 2002 budget. The 2003 deficit is estimated at 112 million. kr and constitutes 74,4 pst. the expected revenue for 2003. On the other hand, income from taxes and duties constitutes 22.2 pst. of the total revenue from the Svalbard budget. So the question is, how much do you actually spend up there? It is stated that, for Svalbard purposes, total net allocation was proposed in 2003. 307 million. kr over the State budget. This figure includes the subsidy to the Svalbard budget of the Ministry of Justice plus the expenditure to Svalbard allocated to the budgets of the other departments and minus the revenue from Svalbard entered in the budgets of the other departments. It is reported that the Ministry of Environment’s budget has been allocated an average of about 80 million in recent years. kr for Svalbard purposes. Most of it goes to environmental protection work at Svalbard. Furthermore, major management plans for several nature reserves and national parks on the island group are under way. Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani AS, where I was employed, and which has actually been the driving force up there, started manufacturing in the autumn of 2001 in a new coal mine area called Svea Nord. The problem is that coal from Svalbard per. Today the power plant is running in Longyearbyen, and it is not that much else to run a power plant with. Now we are talking about alternative renewable energy production. Then I begin to ask myself, is it in line with the protection interests of the island group? Do you see the characteristic mountains on the island group with Danish wind turbines on? I think you're changing the island group in a way that you might not be very interested in. I think you're going to take that inward, if you want to maintain the population that's there today, and maybe increase it. It is also proposed to grant a grant of 2 million. kr to Svalbard Reiseliv over the State budget for 2003. When using funds in this area, it must also be expected that there will be an increase in tourism in the island group. You might also have to ask yourself if it's desirable. In 2001, 76 154 guests were registered in Longyearbyen. That's an increase of 24.3 pst. from 2000. Then if you subtract a curve from it, it can become pretty folky as you go. What is positive with the archipelago is that there has been a significant increase in research and education activities in the last decade. Svalbard has become central to both national and international research in the Arctic, and I think that's very positive. At the same time, we've got the satellite station, which also contributes to a little bit of understanding about the climate, and about what's going on in our northern regions. After the cold end of the war and with better surveillance systems, I wonder if it is desirable to have such a lot of activity on Svalbard, in view of the vulnerable nature that is there. Nor is it a level of mining that suggests that Norway needs to pay for so many to stay there. I think that should perhaps be considered in the future. I don't have the answer, but I think it's important to think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e688	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 924]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e703	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e719	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e735	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e751	Quite briefly: there is a unanimous committee behind the setting, and I think that is pleasing. It is also a unanimous committee which stresses the importance for EFTA of being active drivers in relation to negotiating new free trade agreements. The agreement with Singapore thus enters into a wide range of free trade agreements, and new ones are, hopefully, on the way. I think it is important to point out, and will express the wish that the agreement with Canada can now be brought into port. We are negotiating with South Africa. I think that's also going to be a positive contribution. Hopefully, we can get together with South Korea and possibly Japan, which together could mean something for Norwegian business and open up new markets and give some of them a better foothold in existing ones. The work on free trade agreements is positive, but it probably doesn't have that much attention and may be undervalued. My opinion of this brief statement is that we should note them and that the work done here by Norway and EFTA is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e758	Several have not asked for the word. There will now be a vote on cases No. 1 to 6. [[See page 928]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e768	We then go to voting on case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e775	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 3, by Mr Høglund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e2712	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e6573	The President sees it as the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7762	We should have finished voting in case No. 1 to 6. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be set again at 5 p.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7783	The vote will take place at the next voting time. 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7797	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7808	Last year, I congratulated the Minister of Industry on the full implementation of the budget. Then the Christian People's Party had to sacrifice its view of the need for an offensive industrial policy in order to have a seat in government. It was Right's business policy that was seen in life last year. This year I can't congratulate you. The Minister of Economic Affairs and the party leader of the Right, Jan Petersen, lost the internal fight against the Ministry of Finance and Victor D. Norman. The entire previous period is working Right to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers. Several proposals were made here in the Chamber, most recently in the context of the revised national budget in 2001. In the election campaign, this was also an important theme. In June 2001, the leader in Right, Jan Petersen, sent a letter to the Norwegian Maritime Federation promising that the Right would go in to give this industry a framework on line with the countries around us. Now we all know how it went. These were promises that were forgotten on the way into the government offices. Last year, just weeks after the election, the government proposed a deterioration in the framework conditions, not the opposite, as they had promised. This year the Government proposes to remove the rest. This isn't just the biggest promise break so far in the period, it's also a recipe for increasing political contempt in the Norwegian people. I know from my own part of the country that this was a matter that was decisive for what many party elections did, and it is no wonder that these today feel thoroughly tricked. Last year, the Christian People's Party had to give up its industrial policy for the benefit of its Right. Although I think it's a pity, what can happen when different parties form governments together. However, when right this year has to give up its shipping policy, they cannot be blamed on their partners, for they simply opted for the same. It's of its own should have it, called it in a saying. And that's what the Minister of Industry has experienced in this case – he lost the internal draw. That the government had to break promises from the election campaign is not so strange. There is simply no agreement between what was promised and what is possible within a responsible budget. I'm surprised, however, that there were the seafarers who were going to break these vows. Stable framework conditions are constantly being highlighted as one of the most important single factors in business. When it comes to the maritime industry, she has experienced everything but stable framework conditions, and I'm the first to admit that in the Labour Party we have to take our share of the debt for it. We are now busy creating stable and sustainable framework conditions for this industry as well. Therefore, in our initiative, we took a broad compromise to ensure the stability of the maritime industry. With promises from the election campaign, we were a little surprised that the invitation was met with a cold shoulder from the government's side, but now we know why. We still want to trust that the promises of the election campaign still have a certain value. Therefore, we have repeated the invitation to a settlement in a Document No. Eight proposals that are under consideration in the committee these days, and I hope that the government party can again assess whether they can't live up to their promises in this area. Since we dealt with the budget a year ago, the situation for Norwegian industry has deteriorated dramatically. Every day, there are messages about permits, cancellations, outright flaggings and bankruptcy. The number of bankruptcies in the third quarter of this year has risen by 21 pst. compared to the same quarter last year. If the trend continues, we will experience more than 4,000 bankruptcies this year for the first time since 1993. The solution is to get up. Since the government change, there are more than 16 900 registered unemployed. There are 46 new unemployed every day, an increase of 28 pst. We now have the strongest growth in unemployment in over ten years. Worse, the number of long-term unemployed is increasing. In one year, the number of people who have gone out of work for more than six months has increased by 40 pst. All indications suggest that the trend will continue. The government itself traces additional growth in the number of unemployed next year. In business itself, there is also a drastic decline in future-optimism. The Labour Party predicted this development in the context of the revised national budget in spring. Then we were almost ridiculed and made as dark men. Unfortunately, we got it right. One of the wrong people is the Minister for Industry. He has quite recently traveled the country and the beach around and tried to minimize the situation, and to the extent that it has been a problem, it is in every respect everyone else who has our cause for that problem. To date, I have not heard that he has expressed concern about the situation. This should obviously only be natural conversion and adaptation. The Minister of Labour and Administration has been somewhat healthier in his statements. He thinks it's wasted energy trying to save industrial workplaces in Norway. I thought it was very clarifying. To Norman's comfort, we must be able to say that with the effort that the government has made so far, there is not so much energy that has been wasted. The first provision for action is an understanding of the situation. That leadership seemed to be completely lacking in the government offices. Or is it the way Right has always meant that this isn't really a matter for politicians, but something that the market itself is going to sort out? The government's recipe is limited to tax relief and so-called general instrument, or to business neutrality. If this principle is to be fully followed, for example: the process industry pays full electricity charge and CO2 charge as on the base. The farmers will miss all the support and the fishermen as well. With full nutritional neutrality, Stortinget could not have accepted the package that was made for the offshore industry in connection with the revised budget in 1999. Nor could we have made any special arrangements for our shipyards. Full industry neutrality would be like the Olympic Summit in front of the next LO saying that this time we bet in general, we bet in the same way on all branches and on all practitioners. Personally, I don't think that would have produced so very good results. But the opposite of industry neutrality is not subsidies, as some people like to make it. When Stortinget adopted the package on the offshore industry, a first problem was analysed by the industry, and through the targeted tool it was possible to reverse the trend. The active substance used by one person was, among other things: reductions in taxes, special labour market measures and training packages for those working in industry. This was not industry neutrality, but it was not subsidies either. What's certain is that it worked. Although business neutrality is a good theory, I still have the advantage of seeing a country that is fully based on this theory. Despite what I have just said, I agree that the most important thing, of course, is to keep the economy in order. The most important single measure for Norwegian business with competitive prospects today is a reduction in interest rates and in the exchange rate. A tight budget is crucial to achieve this. The working party set up to spend 2.2 billion kroner less than that of the government and the Progress Party. This would contribute to a faster decline in interest rates and in the exchange rate. Full employment and good business environment have always been important for the Labour Party. In order to achieve a more active industrial policy, the Labour Party spent up to DKK 2.5 billion on concrete measures to improve its business situation. An important signal from business was the need for better depreciation rules. This is particularly important in a situation where many consider relocation in order to save labour costs. Through an offensive effort on SND and district-based measures, we will be able to see many of the good ideas that entrepreneurs have. Innovation is important. In particular, this is important during a period in which traditional business wears out. We have good experience with SND. Since this organisation was formed in 1992, 60,000 new permanent jobs have been created using the funds and tools that SND has had. With the cuts that were carried out last year, the possibility of pursuing offensive policies in this area is greatly reduced. Therefore, many new and necessary jobs will not see the light of day. In a letter to the Minister of Industry, SND says that if the promises had been held at last year’s level, one could have created 50,000 new jobs. I can't see how one can see the advice to turn down such an offer. The government invites income policy cooperation with the social partners. This is positive. But such cooperation must be based on trust. And trust, it must be built. I find it difficult to see that the Government's proposals for aggravating the rules of leave, cutting unemployment and increasing overtime and the threat of cutting the sickle can build such trust. I therefore hope that one will reconsider these proposals when one is now working with, among other things. LO to reduce the wage growth in Norway, which is absolutely necessary if one is to achieve the measures that we are all familiar with. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that the Labour Party is either alone or in partnership with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7844	Olav Akselsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7849	It seems almost as if the Workers' Party's industrial policy spokesman is disappointed that the framework conditions for seafarers have come into place through the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. I can't interpret it any other way when he chooses to spend most of his time in his main post on this topic. I believe that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will have many, many rounds to go in order to be close to the series of lifting breaches that the Workers' Party has committed since these arrangements were introduced in 1996 and until today. There have been a total of 16 attempts to exacerbate the reimbursement system and the net pay system for seafarers. And most attempts to exacerbate the arrangements are behind the Workers' Party. So to the situation of the Norwegian competitive industry. I do not know whether the representative Akselsen is serious, but can it be that attempts to reintroduce double taxation on dividends, tightening the sharing model, as proposed by the Workers' Party, increased taxes on wealth, as proposed by the Workers' Party, lower peak tax rates, as proposed by the Workers' Party, and increased option taxation are a contribution to speeding up Norwegian business life? Does the representative Akssen think that tax increases, at a time when the difference in framework conditions and conditions of competition between us and our trading partners is increasing more and more in our disfavor, are the way to go, at a time when all the representatives of the Norwegian business community are expressing satisfaction with the budgetary settlement entered into? Has the representative Akslingen met with a single representative from the Norwegian business community who, in the current situation, is willing to replace the budgetary agreement with the SVs, the Workers' Party or the Centre's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7856	We could probably have had a competition for who has done the worst things in history. And I'd like to admit that in the Labour Party we have created uncertainty and instability when it comes to maritime industries. With the clear promises you had in connection with the election campaign, we in the Labour Party wanted to contribute to stability in this area. We took these promises seriously and said that when there is now a multiple that will have better framework conditions, we will be in the Labour Party and ensure that there is stability beyond the period. So there's a clear difference, and that's that in the choice we have behind us, this wasn't a promise from the Labour Party's side, unlike what it was from a multiple in this room. So there are others who have greater cause for concern in this field than the Labour Party has. Then I have to admit that I have a very difficult time understanding how tax relief of $7 billion can be produced as tax relief. So in the alternative budget that the Labour Party had, we went in to reduce taxes by $7 billion. It is such that there is a great deal of agreement that a tight budget is important, and then the question is, who is to pay for this tight budget? In the Labour Party, we believe that it is those who have the strongest back, who have to bear the greatest burdens, and that means that it is those who are at work, who have to take their share of it, and that one does not do the same government party up to, take away the unemployed, reduces the supplement for single dependants, and causes older and less expensive expenses. It's okay that we have a tight budget, but from the Labour Party's side, it's always important that we take care of the social distribution, and in my view, the structure of the Labour Party is for business, better than that of a plurality here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7863	It is important that the chairman of the committee, Olav Akselsen, grasp the situation of our seafarers after what we have experienced in this budget. We have approx. 70 000 to 80 000 jobs in mainland Norway which are directly or indirectly dependent on shipping and he criticised the government parties, specifically the Right, for lifting breaches. But he also said in a confession that the Workers' Party has jumped back and forth here, and that's right. Both during a Jagland government and a Stoltenberg government, it was proposed to zero out the reimbursement scheme for our seafarers. But it is true that the Workers' Party has recently contributed more positively. These included: former Minister of Industry Grete Knudsen, who called for the introduction of a net pay regime for ferries. Nevertheless, I would argue that the Progress Party provided the second best solution that could be found in the Norwegian big business. In addition to lifting today's schemes in 2002, we also received a tax relief for the shipping companies of approx. 30 pst. in the case of the tonnage tax. But I don't fully understand the Working Party. For two years, the Progress Party has proposed a net pay regime for seafarers according to Swedish model. Everyone knows through what has been done by investigations, what is needed. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party does not promote any proposal to introduce net pay arrangements. Document No The 8th proposal to which the representative, Mr Akssen, refers, also has no concrete proposals, although it has long been aware of what is needed. And now the shipping industry starts moving out a lot. There's news from all over Coast Norway about this. I would like to have a specific response from the Akssen: why not make concrete proposals so that there will be a signal from the largest party in the country in this Chamber to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7872	First of all, of course, I must agree and be glad that we stopped the deterioration we would have experienced from what the Government has proposed in this area, and that we keep the arrangements that we entered a year ago in this Chamber. Of course, it is good that a stop was seen for the Government's proposal in this area, which would have been the result if the Labour Party and the Government Party had been agreed on a settlement, because this was already within the Workers' Party's arrangement. What has been most important for the Workers' Party now is to try to contribute to a stable framework for this industry. So we've felt that making a lot of symbol suggestions when it won't get multiples is not very easy. In connection with the budget last year, a joint committee, with the exception of SV, asked the government to come back with a package that showed what kind of framework conditions we have in Norway compared to what is the case in our neighbouring country. There could also have outlined different solutions, so that the Storting had a better basis for decision than is the case. And so if we don't get the government party, we don't get multiples for better arrangements, but we won't get the stability that's important either. That's why I think it's more than a clear signal from the Workers' Party when we first said that we wanted, together with the government party, to figure out what the framework conditions are in this area, and so now a separate Document No. Eight proposals that give the government a new opportunity to live up to its own promises. And if there's a suggestion from the Government, we'll be constructive. I want to make it clear that we in the Working Party have never said what is our bazaar model. There is cooperation that is our starting point on this matter, and then the government gets to come up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7881	I think the representative Akssen made an interesting contribution. We in SV share his concern about what is happening in Norwegian industry. I just got an overview from the SND of a significant number of bankruptcies, where businesses are put down a lot. At the same time, I have had the pleasure of reading in the newspaper that the representative Aksen will cancel the EEA Agreement. That is a very interesting statement, on which I would have liked to have debated many aspects. The questions to the representative are: When Norwegian industry believes they are dependent on the EEA Agreement, what kind of alternative does the Workers' Party have to the EEA Agreement? Do you have any new strategies on how to deal with the European market, or is there any other thing behind the opinion of the head of the Business Committee, the Workers' Party's industrial policy spokesman, that we should terminate the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7888	Let me first say that I am pleased that SV is concerned about Norwegian industry and Norwegian business. It might be a new signal. But then I might have to disappoint Inge Ryan a little bit, because I've never actually said that we should unilaterally cancel the EEA Agreement. What I have said is that we should have a prejudiced discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of this agreement. It has been difficult to do, because both the yes-page and the no-page have been bassantes in their stalls for this question. I mean quite clearly that the EEA Agreement has been crucial for Norway in the years that have passed since we said no to the EU. But it's not the same thing as it's not part of this agreement that also has negative aspects. The most difficult thing for me is that what is agreed by the EU is automatically also agreed in this Chamber. I am fairly sure that part of the decisions taken pursuant to the EEA Agreement would not have been taken without the EEA Agreement. What I want and what I want from a clear plural in the Labour Party is that we should sit around the table where the decisions are taken. Either we are a member of the EU or not, it is where the most important decisions for development are taken, not only for Europe but also for the future of Norway. Then I found it regrettable that Norway should not be there. I think that would be an advantage for our business. The main reason why I am a member of the EU is not that the EU is good or bad for Norway. But the whole of Europe is now gathering around this table, and then I thought it was stupid that Norway's chair should be empty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7901	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7905	I am pleased that industrial policy and policy have once again become the focus of Norway. It's high time, someone would say, and I totally agree with that. I believe that the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party in the field of business will be a very good response to the industrial challenges – and an important contribution to improving the framework conditions for the competitive sector. We find the competitive jobs everywhere in the country, but especially in District Norway. I would like to thank the Progress Party for the budget agreement, and I would like to thank Mr Hedstrøm & Co., who has made a good budget proposal even better. It is therefore gratifying to record the closest unison positive reception given to the budget agreement by business teams. I get a lot of messages in these days about companies that downgrade, shut down or abandon planned investments. Worst is probably the situation in the fishing industry, where each fourth enterprise is in a rather threatened situation. The resource situation has to take its share of the blame, but equally the industry is now facing the negative effects of being outside its main markets. And today, unfortunately, there is little to suggest that the situation for the Norwegian fishing industry will be particularly simpler in the short and medium term. Despite the fact that there are points of light, the situation in industry is this government's biggest challenge. For the last five years, we've had an annual salary growth here at home that's been 2 pst. higher per cent years than with our trading partners. In several areas, the last pay statement showed that the public sector has become pay-leading. The strong growth of the public sector is the main cause. In parallel with the strong growth in the public sector — the peculiar wage trend — our competitiveness has been seriously weakened. Until the summer of 2000, this wage-driven weakening of competitiveness was masked by falling krone prices. After that time, the exchange rate has increased by approx. 15 pst., of which 10 pst. last year, until the despair of the export industry. The trend in earnings and the large difference in interest rates between Norway and our trading partners have contributed to the fact that the krone price has now been higher than ever since 1986. This necessitated the need for a tight budget, a budget that could provide the basis for lower interest rates and a weakened exchange rate. In addition, if we are to give competitive jobs a safe future, we need to create a solid basis for moderate, future wage settlements. It has been provided by the Government through a tight budget, where we are further developing with tax reductions. The Government and the agreement with the Advance Party have taken into account the demands and expectations of industry and trade-union during the harvest. On the other hand, we have to cut public sector expenditure. We are proportional to that country in Europe with most public employees. An ongoing expansionary fiscal policy, to which more people in this room put forward, will put strong obstacles in the way of our export industry and, therefore, of District Norway. Budgetary treatment has shown us that the government is fighting on two fronts for competitive business. On the one hand, the Advance Party wishes to spend far more oil money. I now look at my great surprise to, among other things, The center part far along the way follows this line up. Such a line will increase the demand pressure in the Norwegian economy and thus once again provide even higher interest rates and exchange rates. On the other hand, the classic demands of the Workers' Party and the SV on tax increases are made. The Workers' Party's proposal to reintroduce double taxation on dividends, increased taxes on wealth, increased option taxation and tightening up the divisional model will severely affect the access to capital for new projects and hinder the necessary conversion into business. Once the Workers' Party and SV have brought the Centre Party on the team and are trying to present themselves as new alternatives to Norwegian policy, the warning lights should flash at competitive jobs. In fact, the responses to the challenges facing the private sector in the country are not met by any medicine other than the political solutions that have created difficulties for our industry. It can hardly be described as anything other than crocodile tears when representatives from the Workers' Party and SV are concerned about the problems in Norwegian industry and the competitive sector. The co-operation administration meets the country’s challenges in a robust way and with a much more offensive industrial policy than the broad-based choices of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre. Since the accession of the Bondevik government, we have committed to reduce taxes by a total of DKK 19 billion, including the next fiscal year. Double taxation of dividends has been removed. The same is true of the investment fee and the air passenger fee. There is a separate tax credit for business research expenditure – a system that is greatly improved next year, and which may be our main contribution to approaching the OECD countries' R & D efforts. We increase depreciation rates, we reduce the electricity charge and we improve the option tax. In the field by area, the anti-tax and anti-competitive policies to which the Stoltenberg government has provided have been pushed back. District Norway will also experience a much more offensive policy. If Norwegian companies are to be given a new gift, we must succeed in bringing down the strange interest level. The course must be weakened. Norwegian wage policies should no longer differ from those of the competing countries. We need to get control of sick leave. In this context, it must be a cross of thought for all of us when we cross the border and record that the Swedes are now actively working with the goal of halving sick leave by 2008. Research efforts also need to be increased. Our competitors are now preparing for new increases – the EU through its Lisbon strategy and through its enlargement, an extension that will not make the situation simpler for our domestic industry, but that could make everyday life even more difficult for our fishing industry, which is currently struggling significantly, not least with market access to its most important, nearest and best paid market. We might see in a short time that with one exception it is the euro that is payable coins in our neighbouring countries. The exception is the rouble's home country. The challenges lie ahead. And so do the possibilities. If the ideas and the fires get more leeway, if the government gets further information about its business, education and research policy, we're going to be able to keep up at the pace of this at home. The tax credit for research and development expenditure by enterprises is increased. There will be more money for nutrient research through the Research Council. The research fund will have a total of NOK 3 billion. Norway becomes an active actor in the new EU Framework Programme for Research and Technology, with a total framework of DKK 2.6 billion for the coming years. We will see that a massive effort is being made to research and develop new fish species. The government's heavy commitment to the cod programme aims at rapid commercialisation by stimulating cooperation between the research community and business actors. The effort to build a national biobank in Tromsø could also give rise to uncertain perspectives. A biobank could make an important contribution to Norway’s ability to secure a value creation based on existing resources derived from our own economic zone. We have to succeed in the conversion processes we're doing. If we don't, we're even more given a high crude price. The government in this budget shows that they are making every effort to prioritize the conditions of our business. It should also be the opposition's concern at a time when Norwegian business is in a tough period. Without good conditions for business, there will be no safe jobs. I think we can agree that safe jobs are one of the most important things we can contribute to creating. I allow myself to address that proposal under the area of fisheries on which the Right stands with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7943	Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7948	It was interesting to hear that the Government's budget has become even better after the agreement with the Progress Party. Of course, it is nice that you have received help from that edge. It might be interesting to ask if this would lead to closer cooperation, so that you could get these good improvements from the start. Then we let go of the turbulence that has been in the fall, which has not least created uncertainty in the business world. I'm actually in agreement with much of the content of Ivar Kristiansen's description of today's situation. I agree that we need a tight budget, that we must not spend more oil money than the economy allows. I remind you that the Labour Party spent 2.2 billion dollars less than what they do in the agreement. I also agree that we need to do something to get control of pay growth in Norway. Once again, it may be worth recalling that it was this government that we now have, that negotiated the agreement that gave them the additions to the public sector salaries that the representative, Kristiansen, is concerned about. What I'm concerned about, on the other hand, is that we can't get control of these huge wage growth problems, simply because it requires cooperation. It has to be a tripartite collaboration if you're to get control of our wage growth. Then the government must contribute. Unfortunately, I cannot see that that will has been shown from the Government's side yet. I don't think reducing this with overtime, fighting for increased competition and a good deal of other measures, such as reducing the level of deposit protection and stuff, will increase the willingness to cooperate. Finally, I have to ask the question: Do the representative believe that it would be better to have a sick absence, for example. expands the availability of overtime and enhances the competitive environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7959	I thank the representative Akselsen for commenting on my main post in which he stated that he has joined very much of what has been said. It can provide for a perhaps wider consensus here in the Chamber on the colossal challenges we face in the need to convert the nation, the need to create a better framework for competitive business, and where, I believe, in the field of the field, we need to take a common promise to seek to make Norwegian business better equipped to meet a competitive situation in a world, in a market characterised by low economic conditions, with lower growth than what we have at home, and which has a starting point where they have an interest rate foot that is almost half of the level that we meet here at home and that is far beyond our most important market. There is no reason to hide that the agreement with the Progress Party that we ended up with was good for Norwegian business. There has been a unison feedback from the responsible team, from representatives of the Norwegian industry. I have no problem taking inwards matters affecting seafarers, matters relating to changing permitting rules, that we are getting back depreciation rates that are at the same level as they were prior to the famous Plaza settlement some time ago. In the case of sick leave, pay and overtime, I would just like to remind you that the Act on working time has not changed. Now it is up to each employee to make a decision where there is a trustee today. And with the invitation Aksensen came in today, I think we can probably quickly agree that we can re-examine the Sandman Committee's attitude as a start to an attempt to bring down the strange sickness absence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7968	I have to agree with the conclusion that Ivar Kristiansen had regarding the budget agreement and business. There's unison feedback in that area. We had few billions to play with, but a large percentage of these billions benefited business. I would also like to make it clear that the tight budget for which the government parties were engaged was retained, and the Progress Party also did not want to use the money. But there's one area that I don't understand that the Right, as the dominant party in the Government, wanted to continue, and it's the sky-high transfers to agriculture when you have a tight budget at the same time. We know that Norwegian agriculture is facing major challenges here, and there is a strong need for structural change, as we see in all our neighbouring countries. Today there was a new report from NILF and ECON, which was presented in the NRK, which went through all stages of the value chain for food in the Nordic countries. It is actually the first time such an investigation has been carried out. Two thirds of price differences between Norway and the other countries are due to primary producers, i.e. the farmer. That means there is a great need to do something about all the regulations. We need deregulation and liberalisation. If, for example: the number of cows per day; farmers increased from 14 to 25, we would save NOK 3.7 billion. Or if the cultivated grain area was doubled, we could save almost another $1 billion, and then we would have developed a more robust agriculture. I see in today's VG that you are concerned about this. Here it says about a Norwegian farmer entering the EU. He's moving to Lithuania, because he says that here in Norway he was basked and tied on his hands and feet with regulation arrangements and restrictions in the agricultural sector in the further work of the Government? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7979	There are limitations in speaking time here in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7982	In politics, power is so divided that one often has power over the upswing of a sheep in elections. That means that the Right is very satisfied with what you've achieved when you're in your second year of government. And that means that in politics by policy area we are able to navigate by course, by small steps – some say too small, others say too long – but we are on the right course. I also feel that we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, are going in a direction that is overall the best choice for the whole nation, a road choice with which the respective parties are satisfied. When we also look at agricultural policy, where the number of farmers in Norway has been halved since 1980, from 130 000 to less than 70 000 today, and where we can achieve a new halving in 10-15 years, I think we will see that the challenges facing us in this area too are considerable. In the Ministry of Agriculture, we see clear trends in resolving the strong and unilateral monopolies we have in Norwegian agriculture. Let's get to grips with the deregulation role. We see that we now have a grant scheme that goes more towards production neutrality than before, and we see that the steps we are taking towards amending the concession law, are also steps that I think all in this room – perhaps with a few exceptions, can be determined in the right direction, and that will also be a handshake to Building Norway, as a contribution to increasing stability, bet and development in Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e7991	I thought I would give the representative Kristiansen a chance to talk a little about things that he was very well informed about in his post. The marine industries are often predicted to have a bright future as national growth nutrients from this spokesperson. It wasn't exactly mentioned in Kristiansen's articles today. But whether such a prediction should be true or not is, among other things, true. up to what we're doing in this hall. And one of the premises that rarely gets mentioned, but that's very important, is an offensive investment in R & D in this industry. We've focused on knowledge as an input into value creation. I think it is a premise that a bet on research and development if we want the Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture industry to be world-leading in the future. Therefore, SV in its alternative budget, which is very tight, has a high priority in research and development. Representatives from the Government Party have referred to the budget as a commitment to marine research. I don't agree with that. I agree more with the Managing Director of the Landsföreningsverenigingens Landsförening, Geir Andreassen, who says yesterday's Evening Post that the public investment in the marine sector has not turned down. He mentions the bet as disappointing. In the extension of that, I am allowed to mention the Government and the Progress Party's complete nullification of the Fishery Industry Competence Centre, Finko. Then the representative Kristiansen has also said to the evening post that it is highly desirable to keep Finko, and he indicates that the industry must find the means to this within the fisheries agreement, which the industry rejects is possible. I wonder: would not Kristiansen have voted for SV, the Labour Party and the Centre's budget, where we have actually found modest funds both for Finko and for R & D within the marine sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8004	Now it is often the case that the Senterpartet and SV operate with a slightly different wallet than most others in this room have occasion to do. But in addition to that, I would say that what this government puts up for in the field of research and development, in many ways, is not equal in terms of bet over the last ten years. There is a massive effort to facilitate increased research and development. The R & D deduction is now extended to all enterprises. We get 15 pst. increase in nutrient research through the Research Council. The Research Council has a marshes to prioritise the marine sector as one of its areas of activity. At the same time, the Research Fund will be filled with DKK 3 billion. I also believe that the massive efforts made through the EU Framework Programme for Research could contribute to increased investment in the marine sector. However, the marine sector also faces many other challenges, including: the resource situation and, in particular, the market situation. And the market situation is probably the biggest challenge we are facing, not least with regard to our main market, the EU, which is now facing an extension to Central and Eastern Europe, where Norwegian fishing industry receives new estimates. It could be tempting to ask a question in return: what kind of solution does SV propose in this area? But we'll probably have an opportunity to come back to that. If the Norwegian Fisheries Team wants to give priority to Finko, we have given an opening to it by asking the Government to look for a solution, within the framework of the fisheries agreement. But it's up to the parties to figure out these amounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8015	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8018	The Economic and Social Committee, with its extensive remit today, was set up in 1993, when agricultural and fisheries areas were also included. The Committee thus represented something new. The aim was to shape a position in a comprehensive and comprehensive industrial policy perspective, with the objective of value creation and economic growth. Business and innovation should be assessed more independently of whether the income came from industrial activities, trade in goods, travel, agriculture, forestry or fishing and fishing. Has the size of the budget proposed today, nine years after the establishment of the new committee structure, come a little closer to an overall industrial policy in practice, which really means something? In some areas, there has been a change. In particular, it is clear in areas where Norway has committed itself through international agreements that have provided less protection and subsidisation. But in important areas things go pretty much like before. The agricultural transmission, district and fisheries support is mostly followed by the tracks that have gone up. Therefore, the position of the Economic and Social Committee will hardly be remembered as an example of boldness or reinvigoration. It is only the Progress Party that is to a greater extent willing to settle with the old transfer thinking that the country's money bag will solve the problems of industries and districts. This is clearly visible through the agricultural transfers. For us, it is important to emphasise the following: no matter what industry it is, it is only sustainable over time if the business is given business profitability, based on products that are priced so that the market demands them. That is an indisputable fact. Furthermore, the EU internal market with free movement of goods, services, labour and capital means more equal returns across Europe. This means that the income requirements in the districts are gradually approximating what we have in the rest of the country and in the EEA territory. Thus, in the age of internationalisation, market orientation and competitiveness must be at the heart of the creation of winning companies. We must therefore have framework conditions that provide a good starting point for our businesses, which are in line with our international commitments through the EEA and WTO agreements and other international agreements. We need to develop effective solutions while changing the rural policy ambitions. In other words, we must adapt to the conditions of the south of Svinesund. A small country with many small industrial enterprises competing in large markets cannot differ significantly from other countries’ framework conditions. It should be one of the main objectives of a new millennium. This also goes straight into the debate on future opportunities for industry and business, based on Norway, and where different actors have difficulties in reaching consensus. On the one hand, we have a number of business researchers, business organisations and trade unions who express concern about job losses in industry. On the other hand, our Minister of Industry and people in the departments are trying to de-dramatize the situation by presenting figures that there are 10,000 more jobs in industry now than one year ago. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is pleased that industrial policy is now on the political agenda. It's about time. It has to be very clear. Developments are worrying. Researcher Eli Moen’s report on ‘Globalisation and Industrial Policy Strategies’ for the Power and Democracy Study documents that Norway has experienced the strongest industrial decline throughout Europe in the last 20 years. Norway reduced its total industrial employment, measured in hours, by 21 pst. from 1980 to 2000. For example, the United States had higher industrial employment in 2000 than in 1980. Norway has also at times experienced the lowest productivity developments in the OECD. The economy of the country is more commodity-based than any other OECD country. We don't have the power to get out of the commodity clamp. Norwegian business also shows a very low innovation growth. When the problems are well known, we must establish an economic policy and an industrial policy that facilitates industrial development, including at home. The Progress Party takes this into account in its alternative state budget with tax relief for businesses and persons of the order of DKK 28 billion. This is necessary, we believe, for growth in mainland business. This should include, inter alia: helping to compensate for some of the disadvantages of being far from the markets, having a small domestic market, poor infrastructure and much, much more. We establish world-class tax and tax conditions with our structure. If you give less tax relief over a longer period, it won't have the same positive effect on the economy as if you hit with heavy cuts from day one. This is absolutely necessary to regain confidence in long-term profitability for investment. Without the necessary tax reliefs, neither foreign nor Norwegian capital will allow us to build up activities in Norway to any greater extent. That is what will be the main challenge in the years to come. Furthermore, experience from countries that have succeeded shows that they have adapted early to the rules of global competition. It has been understood that the knowledge society needs new industrial policy instruments. Experience from the United States, Ireland and Finland shows that this has been achieved through a strengthening of the innovativeness of business with the assistance of an active country and with clear priorities in business policy. The principle of nutrition neutrality and general framework conditions has not proved sufficient. In addition, it may be wise to focus on high-growth industries, and the choice of instruments should also take into account the fact that instruments that worked well in the industrial community can be completely irrelevant in the knowledge society. There is a broad political consensus on investing in R & D and education in this country. However, compared to most other OECD countries, Norway has a very high level of education. We are one of the countries with the highest number of engineers and researchers compared to the population. Nevertheless, this effort in education has shown little evidence in terms of new knowledge-based business. This suggests that our main problem is not a lack of competence, but a lack of ability to translate competence into practical business. It is therefore important to strengthen the instruments aimed at business start-ups and start-ups. This suggests, among other things: an extension of the scheme of seed funds and corresponding incentives to incubator activities. The Nutrition Committee and the Storting will have good opportunities to participate in and implement a sound policy on instruments when the Tool Communication is being discussed, hopefully in the spring. Furthermore, it is necessary to focus on the importance of keeping Norway’s head office and competence jobs in strategically important companies. The lack of national instruments has contributed to the gradual branching of Norwegian business. It should therefore use its capital strength to ensure national ownership of strategically important companies. The Progress Party therefore proposed, when examining the ownership notification, to examine the establishment of a Structural Fund for such a purpose. Another model may be the addition of the country’s holdings in business to its own holding companies and their contribution to private companies that need to strengthen their capital base, either in a buying-in situation or in the context of restructuring. In the treatment of the ownership message, the government was ordered by the majority of the population to come back with a separate case on different models for a more professional exercise of country ownership. In the process we are now in, and where the political majority has voted for a tight budget, it is alarming for the Progress Party that the same political majority wants to maintain significant transfers to the agricultural sector. What is really contributing to this is depleting the districts. It is the peripheral regions of the country that have to bear the financial burden. Many businesses in the districts fight hard to survive in international competition, and worse so. In this fight, in addition to their own high costs, they must bear their share of the burden of financing the world's most expensive agricultural policy. The party notes that the other parties’ agricultural allocation proposals mean that huge transfers will continue to flow into a single industry. Developments are worrying. A significant degree of market protection contributes to a weaker resilience to new needs and conditions. The alignment with new rules will be the tougher the future. The agricultural industry will be exposed to competition in the coming years. Therefore, it is important to facilitate the situation while it is still time, the Progress Party believes. We also believe that it is not necessary to wait to introduce a new agricultural policy that requires radical changes to the framework conditions. Primary producers need to be more gradually comparable with self-employed, other industries and industries exposed to competition. In parallel with subsidies reductions, other radical changes in the framework conditions for agriculture’s business, including: by liberalising the law, abolishing all production restrictions, abolishing restrictions on the sale of land and forest property and repealing housing and compulsory provisions and the specific legislation of the agricultural cooperative which restricts competition. If transfers are reduced in line with the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and efficient, the possibilities of triggering significant growth rates are increased. This will mean some tougher roofs and fewer operators in the industry. We put in transitional arrangements for those who leave the profession, as part of an improvement in the efficiency of Norwegian agriculture. I would like to mention proposal No. 5 on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, and the proposals No. 11–16 on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8060	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8065	I have to say, as it is, that the Progress Party is a slightly difficult party to have a relationship with. It is a party that is elected to a batch program where they say they will remove all state aid to the nursery. Three months later, they propose to multiple the same support. They choose to sell out state-owned businesses and have an extensive privatisation of them. Six months later, they go against any suggestions from the Government to do just that. This way one could have taken areas by region. When you read the comments from the Progress Party, one page will see that they will lead a market liberalist policy. One will have free competition, one will have deregulation, and one will have reduced industrial policy instruments. On the other hand, a huge amount of government money is to be spent on so-called seed funds, on structural funds and in other ways on government money in business. I myself have a little difficulty seeing the context of this. Anyway, the biggest problem with Norwegian business today is the high interest rate and the high interest rate. This is due to the pressures in the economy. This pressure again owes us a strong growth in public service provision over the past ten years, while at the same time we have had a very strong growth in the private economy and increased purchasing power. By adding more and more money to the public budget, an even greater public demand will be stimulated. This is what the Progress Party does in its proposal, while proposing a tax haven that will lead to increased private demand. But in other words, an already high-pressure labour market will be even more under pressure. All trends that are negative for Norwegian business today will be reinforced by the Progress Party’s approach. I guess that's why there's not a single economist in Norway who thinks this can help. I just have to ask the question whether it may be that there is someone who agrees with the Progress Party that this will actually contribute positively to the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8078	The representative Aksensen is now dealing with general economic policy. It's hard to give a structured answer in two minutes. So in our alternative budget proposal, we have tax reductions of DKK 28.5 billion. 15 billion of these 28.5 billion we take in by increasing the use of oil. So we don't want the tight budget that the other parties want to get behind. We want to use a little bit more of the oil surplus. Let me take a thoughtful situation: As the Axis itself has said, we are approaching 100,000 unemployed in Norway. Of course, they must have unemployment benefits and other support schemes that are regulated, that is okay, but you must keep the tight budget. At the same time, it means that if you keep the tightness, you can spend less money on some other things, whether it's about the tax relief that Akselsen says he's in favour of, and as the government says you're in favour of, or it's about social arrangements. So the unemployment rate increases, and then you tighten it up further. You get into an evil circle. The promotion party wants to stimulate the supply side so that one does not develop such an evil circle. There's a difference between spending some of the oil money and spending. In the spring, in the context of the wage settlement, the Progress Party proposed that part of the salary increases should be taken out in terms of tax relief instead of gross wage increases. The frame was, as far as I remember, 5.5 pst. Had we taken 3 pst. of the 5.5 pst. As tax reliefs, our businesses would come out much better. We would not have had that pressure against the crown and the high interest rate that we have today. Old and good progress party policy! But then we heard nothing from neither Stoltenberg nor from the leaders of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8087	The representative Hedstrøm spoke a lot about agricultural policy. We know that the Progress Party will reduce agricultural transfers by NOK 6 billion. My question to Hedstrøm is this: what consequences will it have for North Norway and agriculture there if you reduce the transfers by NOK 6 billion? Has the Progress Party thought through it before making such a proposal, or do you take it as it comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8094	The Progress Party has been in for a tough agricultural policy for all years. But it has also been so in a number of other areas where we have been out first, and eventually we have been through this room, and so will it be in agricultural policy. The question is, how many years will it take for the other parties to understand that we are going to have an agricultural policy. There will be significantly fewer farmers, but they will be robust and competitive and can be part of this system. Let me give you an example: from 1976 to 1977 we spent 500 billion dollars, including the screening aid, in 1997-kronas for this sector, for healthy, working people. In the same period, we got more than a half of the number of farmers in Norway and the largest migration in history from the districts to the central strut, that is, a policy that is proven to be ineffective. Are we going to continue a policy that does not work when we can put in place a policy that works? Of course, we're putting transitional arrangements into this system, and as I referred to earlier, from VG today, there are angry farmers. It's not quite quiet now, because the State Council of Sponheim has intended to do something about the concession limits in the law on acquiring livestock. Industrious farmers today who have had a pig too much, a hen too much, or produced one litre of milk outside the quota, have been criminalized. And the Competition Authority says quite clearly that the market regulation mechanisms in this system make Norwegian agricultural products far more expensive than they would have had to be under our climatic conditions. When we talk about these things around in large meetings, there is often a noise going through the assembly: this was new, this was different. But some people have to go up and remove some old watering, and that's what we're willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8099	The party of progress has an interesting point of view in many areas, but when it comes to agriculture, I am very concerned. I feel that the Progress Party has a consistently negative focus on what agriculture stands for, what opportunities there are, and is trying in several ways to weaken agriculture as an industry. Fortunately, agriculture still has solid support in the population. That's about 70 pst. which says that the level of support we have today is something we want to keep, because it provides safe food and adequate food. For the Christian People's Party, it is crucial to have a proper and robust agriculture in Norway. And I want to say that there are well few industries, if any, that have streamlined the pace of agriculture in recent generations. It is only unlikely that everything has been achieved, and at the same time one is on the tip of the world when it comes to quality and food security. So we experience in one of the capital newspapers, VG, that despite the fact that we have the world's best food and the world's best food industry, there are some shops that get into trouble, and immediately the Progress Party is on the plate and says, "Travel to Sweden." Instead of raming two-three shops that have done something that might be a bit on the edge, one not only frames the two-three units, but one takes the whole agriculture, the whole food industry and says: Don't trust them, go to Sweden. One ignores the problems that are in the neighboring country when it comes to these foods, and the security that they need. But it'll be a simple recipe. It's too simple, it's too unlikely, and I'm afraid the Progress Party should take a more detailed discussion about its relationship with agriculture. The decline we have had in Norway, has gone quickly, in my opinion almost irresponsibly fast, and we do not need to catalyze such a raging development that we are now in, which will create an agriculture, a robust agriculture, that we can live with in the future. I ask here for the understanding of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8110	I feel that it is the Progress Party that represents a realistic agricultural policy, which has been implemented in all the other Nordic countries a long time ago, now last in Finland. There was some rumbling in Finland when restructuring and doing what was necessary to develop a more robust agriculture, as an EU member. But the finder said it right out: we don't have any oil revenues, so we have to take these conversions now in time, because we can't afford to pay out all these billions when the downtime comes. And it's moving forward. I will take an example: the milk sector is the most expensive in Norway, and, as far as I remember – here the Council of State arrests me – each dairy farmer has subsidies of 350,000 kroner per year. We have 14 dairy cows per year. farmer in Norway. In Sweden, five years ago, there were doubles, 30, the Danes have 60, and in Finland, there is a full speed ahead. But here it's quiet. And this about traveling to Sweden – why did I take it out? Indeed, every year, the Progress Party has tried to reduce the charges on leak-sensitive products, i.e. tobacco, alcohol, sugar – including cars, because now Norwegian car importers have problems. We have tried to change agricultural policy, but nothing happens. However, in the border belt, the shops in the commercial and service industries are lowered. We lose 1,000 dairy farmers a year – despite 350 000 kroner of subsidies. We lose a total of 3,000 farmers, without the political majority being willing to make the necessary structural changes. So I think the only way to make the political majority in this room realize the reality is that we take the Easter and Christmas trade in Sweden all year round and get half-empty grocery stores and wine monopolies here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8119	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8122	I am both a little happy and a little tired when we are now going to deal with the food budget. I'll start by saying why I'm happy. I'm happy because we're finally finally, after a long, long fight, getting support for the very most marginal societies in Norway. We're talking about island communities, communities far up in the valleys and in the mountains, where there are 50-60s and up to 100 people who are struggling and fighting to keep their store, so that they can get groceries, the opportunity to meet a place, hang up posters, grab a cup of coffee – and get some necessary services. So there's finally a majority in this big deal that we need to help out at the most marginal edges we have in Norway, so that they can maintain these services. It's hugely important -- it's actually more important to me than the Opera -- that we can get this in place for the people that it's about. That's why I'm happy. I'm also happy for another thing, and that's that we're working on and we've gotten money into something called the district billion. There's money that you don't know yet how to use in detail. For us in SV, it is quite obvious that we are going to ensure that they have a device that allows us to meet societies that have worn off their backs for a long time and that are threatened by relocation because they lack jobs, because they lack capital to get good ideas that good people want to put into life, but that banks and private capital do not have the opportunity to face. We in SV are pleased that we have got that district profile in the budget, both in relation to business support and in relation to the fact that we are going to get help for the most marginal outlying communities in terms of shops. On the other hand, what I'm a little sorry about is that we don't really take over the challenges we have in agriculture. We in SV had originally made a proposal where we both want to spend more money on ecology, more money on recruitment and more money on animal welfare. There are three of the areas in which Norway needs to make significant efforts in the future. We know that we're a retard in organic food. The Minister of Agriculture's objective to achieve 10 pst. goes at snail speed. We need to get more stimulation, training and knowledge so that we can achieve these goals. We know that our neighbouring countries have come much further, and this has actually led consumers to prefer this type of goods. We also know that this agricultural recruitment is a challenge. Many young people seriously consider not to take over farms. Sense if it's actually big, nice use with small debts, they see that the possibilities are too small for them to take over. This we have to take inwards. We need young people who want to, and will, drive the farms across the whole country. It's absolutely crucial, and that's why we have to take it inwards and make a force effort there as well. In the third area, animal welfare, we are now receiving an animal welfare report. I hope there's some money coming after it, because there we also have an important job to do. I know that the Minister of Agriculture has referred to studies in the EU, where consumers demand quality both in terms of animal welfare and in terms of clean, or safe, food. And then we have to make sure that we are the best in the world when it comes to safe food and animal welfare, so that consumers know it's on top. We can never be the best in the world when it comes to price, in my opinion. The last area that I'm disappointed in and at least will pull forward, goes on this with the forest. Forests have always been an unusually important resource in Norway. We've had tresliperi, we've had sawmills, paper mills, etc. The forest has always been a natural resource that we have enriched and that has created jobs and growth in the whole country. But for us to have this growth, you're dependent on it coming up new forest at any time, and therefore you've been driving forest planting. The forest planting we have today, nobody in this room will enjoy – perhaps not our grandchildren either – but there will come after us who will enjoy the forest being planted in 2002 and 2003. We fear that the change in forest policy that is now taking place will lead to much less forest being planted in Norway. So it's a bad investment if we think about future generations. And the reactions of forest companies, from the industry seas, are also very negative to this conversion. We hope that we will evaluate whether the conversion was reasonable or not immediately, so that you can possibly go back to the scheme you had in the past, with which the industry has been satisfied, and which has led to significant forest planting here in the country. SV's excellent representative Åsa Elvik will come back to some issues later in the debate. I'll end up here. I'm a little happy that we've got a district profile in the budget – I'm also a little sorry because there are some things we should have taken on, which we don't have to deal with. I take up the suggestions that SV has made on their own or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8145	The representative Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8151	The representative Ryan was happy because we've managed to keep some shops out on the islands, as he said. But my question is, what is he going to do with shops out on the islands when there are no people, when SV's policy will lead to that there aren't so many people left out on the islands? In the budget setting, SV does not have a penny for the seafarers, which means that the Norwegian seafarer's level, which now counts about 20,000 men, disappears. And they live on the islands, these 20,000 seafarers. But not only that: these 20,000 seafarers and the fleets they work in also generate a good deal of other jobs within the shipbuilding industry, within all marine industries. There will be 20,000 seafarers who disappear, who cannot compete for fishing. This, in turn, will lead to less recruitment in the fishing industry, both on the sea and on the land. In fact, we might lose a place between 70,000 and 100,000 jobs. And then it helps so little to have a store that is open from 10 to 12, with one added, in half position, without groceries in the shelves. My question is: does not SV and the representative Ryan see the value of Norwegian seafarers? And what kind of supply does SV have to the Norwegian sailor?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8158	The representative Ryan does not have an overview of the number of people in Color Line who live on the Norwegian islands or where the different ones that are subsidised by the Norwegian state are held. But what I can say to the representative Solholm is that, like the rest of the Stortinget, we are concerned about what is happening within the industry that was mentioned here. But we can't help giving a small profession special tax advantages that you don't have elsewhere in society. It is not right that some industries should somehow escape without contributing to the community that we all believe we should contribute to. But we want to work internationally to get some laws and regulations harmonised, so that we can avoid unfortunate competition, which actually occurs from time to time. We see that it's a problem, but we're not willing to give in to that pressure, sail if you're currently struggling in that area. With regard to who lives in Norwegian islands, etc., I think it is somewhat more complex than the representative of Solholm points out. That there is a sailor – it certainly does. There are quite a few fishermen. There are people working in the school and other public sectors. It's probably far more complex than what Solholm's representative says. And there's SV's overall policy very good. We have a district policy. We have created a district policy action plan. If we had been allowed to put it out in life, I think it would have been fun and a lot of flagging around in the Norwegian district. I do not expect the representative Solholm to have read the plans we have, but on the day we get into government, Solholm will notice it!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8165	It's interesting to hear the post of the representative Inge Ryan, where he's just talking about who there should have been more transfers. He does not mention at all what was our main starting point when we worked with the budget, namely getting a tight budget. It was the business community — including the district industry, which Ryan is very concerned about — that set the number one priority. After the adoption of the budget framework, we receive unisonably positive feedback from industry, from business organisations and even from the Joint Undertaking: that we managed to get through a tight budget was priority number one. In its alternative budget, SV shows its true face. There's, as far as I've seen, a tax increase of NOK 7-8 billion for business. Ryan's talking hot about transfers. He's talking about agriculture. Does not the representative Ryan realise that an important part of the backbone of District Norway is also companies that are exposed to competition? Does Ryan not recognise that the strong krone price that has led to the companies receiving 100 kroner in 1999, they only get 85 kroner for today? Doesn't Ryan realize it's a problem? I ask, when will SV be equally concerned about talking about that values are to be created, as they are talking about that they are to be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8174	We agree with Mr Momyr that it was important to have a tight budget. In its alternative budget, SV had exactly the same strict arrangement as the Government. We spent the same amount on the heads. But we have a different device, and that's that we actually want us to have more money for the community and less for private consumption. I would like to underline here in the Chamber that SV has exactly the same tight budget as the government provided. So ask Momyr if SV is not worried about what's happening in the business world around. Well, we're worried, and we're actually also looking for the good answers. For almost a year and a half, I've been sitting on the nutrition committee and traveling around and meeting business – and what is it business, if they don't exactly shout, actually talk about? Well, they need a strong and up-to-date SND, where there are opportunities both for professional help, and not least for loans and grants. So they want more money for research and development. That's the business I'm meeting mainly. We want a powerful tool. We want money so that the public can actively participate in research and development. They're asking for that. And if you want to do that, we need to get some money into the common fund, so that we can spend money on research and spend money on different tools that businesses around Norway are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8186	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8189	The 2003 state budget is a very good budget for business. The budget will contribute to strengthening industry’s innovation and competitiveness, thus contributing to increased value creation and well-being. The budget framework, for which we have received a lot of criticism in the autumn — in the last few months — now facilitates a fall in interest rates if not for that long. The business community wants the most, is lower interest rates and lower interest rates. This takes the government's part to deliver! So business is happy with the outcome of the budgetary procedure. I will also give tribute to the Progress Party for a neat and constructive attitude to the agreement concluded between the Government Party and the Progress Party. The Government Party's arrangement facilitates a more moderate wage settlement, including, but not limited to: by facilitating personal taxation and increasing the deduction of the trade union quota. In addition, the Prime Minister has taken an initiative towards the social partners, with a view to establishing a mandatory system with more moderate specifications. In several sectors of industry, there is a shortage of labour. It is therefore important to facilitate the empowerment and recruitment of those who are actually unemployed, and it is not least important to follow up the agreement on an inclusive working life, in order to reduce the sick absence and slow down the disembarkation to disability, which we know is happening in a sometimes tough labour market. In the government’s draft budget, the overall level of labour market measures is proposed to increase by 600 action places compared to 2002. Measures will be targeted at young people, immigrants and the long-term unemployed in the first row. The grant of nutrition rights research and development through the Norwegian Research Council will increase by 15 p.m., or 129 million. SEK – of which 45.5 million. on the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade’s budget. The government has undertaken a major effort to combat the form field and to simplify industrial legislation. It's about 1 million. kr to the AltInn project, which covers electronic reporting from business to public authorities. This will mean simpler solutions. The 2003 budget is also a good budget for agriculture. The budget facilitates the renewal and conversion of Norwegian agriculture, which will once again provide the basis for new optimism in the agricultural industry. Agriculture also receives an increase in depreciation rates of 20 pst. The establishment of a joint food surveillance body for land-based and sea-based food production is an important and decisive step towards ensuring safe food for consumers through healthy and viable production, a matter to which we come back. In this budget, forestry policy is being reformed with a view to making the economic environment of the forest sector more robust. The system of a forest tax is central to stimulating investment in forestry. This is not a fee, but a fund provision of the forest owner's own money for reinvestment in the property from which the money comes, with tax benefits. The tax advantage of the use of forest fees for investment schemes will be increased in this budget from 35 p.m. up to 60 pst. without unscrewing. These changes will provide a simpler and more robust framework for forestry, along with a sharp increase in the value creation programme for wood use and wood processing from 19 million. kr to the near double. This could in the long run lead to increased investment and improved profitability in industry. The conversion means that forest owners themselves have to take a greater responsibility for building new forests. Together with the use of sandforest protection and bioenergy, the conversion to a strengthening of the environmental dimension of forestry is involved. The trust in Norwegian food is important. And with the scheme that one now sees going to be endorsed by the Stortinget in the near future, this dimension before Norwegian agriculture will be strengthened. I also hope that the ongoing discussion about a reduction in export support can give more real world market prices, so that Norwegian prices are not so high that they count as world market prices today, but are not real. From the Christian People's Party's side, we believe it is important that the focus of the policy now is on the individual farmer and food producer as a self-employed nutritionist. The budget provides for simpler regulation, stimulation of business development, increased value creation and more market-oriented production. I am pleased that today there will be a budget for increased value creation, which is good for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8226	The Government of Bondevik I provided several large-scale messages, among which I would like to mention St.meld. No 15 for 1999-2000, the profitable and competitive tourism industries and St.meld. No 17 from 1998-1999, Forest Communication. The tourism industry at the Norwegian Tourist Council followed up the travel life announcement with a stepping-up plan for the brand construction of Norway as a destination in 2000–2006. In the 2001 state budget, a total of 7.5 million was committed. kr extra to this bet. The Tourist Council redispatched some of its funds, and the industry itself added 29 million. NOK so it had a total of 50 million. NOK at disposal. Then the cutlery came. The first Bondevik II government did was cut off subsidies for travel. Last year this was corrected by the government parties together with the Progress Party, and in the budget for this year they have cut 16 million. kr for brand construction and travel. The forest message is another area that is interesting to see. The conversion of forest policy has now taken place at this Government, and it is tempting to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party whether he is aware of the communications made by the Government of Bondevik I, and whether he is satisfied with the follow-up made by the Government of Bondevik II to the two communications. Or is it that these messages are put in the drawer and forgotten forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8239	When it comes to travel life, there's been an increase in the budget process. It also provided for extensive cooperation with travel operators, so that the industry could be made more responsible for the investment of the marketing measures leading to Norway abroad, including in the internal market. I think there's a right development in which the state supports a lot of resources. Because of tightness in the budget, this is one of the items you have chosen to cut. It is clear that when you put forward a tight budget, it would blur some places. All objectives cannot be achieved - please make sure that you say so. When it comes to forest, I feel that the conversion that happens is interesting and in many ways right. It is more environmentally friendly, as it reduces the construction of forest roads in a vulnerable terrain. In addition, a significantly improved forest tax system is now being introduced, as the tax distribution is extended from 35 pst. to 60 pst. The forest owner will then be given greater responsibility for planting and caring for his own forest, with favourable tax arrangements. In fact, there are many before forestry who have asked for such a conversion. In order to ensure that this is a positive development, we ask that the department follow in development and see if deforestation of forest land is planted. We have also opened up opportunities for the parties to the agricultural settlement to redeploy some of the resources that traditionally go to forestry. Otherwise, they would be used for forest-carve road accidents, which in the agricultural agreement this year amounted to some 148 million. kr. So there would be enough money to supplement this new, good system with a more accurate system if the actors don't feel that this new tax system in every way meets their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8246	I will follow up on something of the same theme that Grethe Fossli addressed in his reply to the representative Gedrem. It concerns the tourism industry. I will also put this in a slightly larger perspective in relation to his main articles on agriculture and change. If we look at agriculture on the one hand, we have approx. 65,000 farmers. With regard to the tourism industry, we have approx. 134 000 people, of whom there are very many women and many in the districts. The agricultural sector is given approx. DKr 12–13 billion in support per year. years. If you take the shielding aid, it's $19.6 billion according to OECD figures. While the tourism industry, which has twice as many people involved, is a future industry that can have significant ringing effects and involve value creation in Norway, it is estimated that 100 million. kr. In addition, when we talk about tight budgets, if you use this in marketing beyond the borders of Norway and with foreign employees, it has no inflationary effect. Following the decision to step up the size of the population, with regard to the marketing programmes of Norway as a tourist destination, with the opportunities available here, and when the aggressive marketing carried out, for example, is seen. in Denmark and Sweden, where market shares are gained from Norway despite the fact that we have more to offer – what is the reason why the Government downgrades this area? But I want to stress that we got a redistribution within the framework, so there were 4 million. for the marketing of Norway as a tourist destination. Of course, I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8253	I appreciate the comparison that the representative Hedstrøm draws between two industries, travel and agriculture. First, I would like to say — not as strongly as it sounds — that without an efficient well-run Norwegian agriculture, it would be difficult to operate with travel life in Norway. Agriculture is probably the single factor in Norway, which has the most to say for the care of the cultural landscape and for the land. It is almost a provision for extensive tourism. That's why it's so important to have agriculture. I took a ride with the hotspot a couple of years ago. I had an American relative with me, who when we traveled hundreds of miles north and saw nice construction and infrastructure, it was quite unlikely. It's a value that it's hard to appreciate enough, which we in everyday life take for granted, but that's not. That's why I'm so happy that there's a lot of support to keep up a subsidy on agriculture that doesn't get an uncontrolled crack. For example, the United States tried. with drastic cuts in agricultural subsidies, but has now brought in hundreds of billions of dollars – although they have cheap immigrants who work at very low wages and drive gardens on many tens of thousands of goals – there is something that can never go in Norway. I feel that travel life should have good conditions to present an excellent country, but that the industry itself needs to be more involved and bear the cost of marketing a product that is solid and good and that will have a strong development. For Norway, one of the finest countries anyone can find. At least that's the feedback we get, and that's what the research shows. But in this we must not let go of an agriculture that can keep the country in claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8263	Let me first give some credit for the last reply from the representative, Gedrem, whom I think was good. I also think it is important to stress the strong link between active agriculture and travel. It would not have been very pleasant to look inwards at the Norwegian fjords if there was no active agriculture that was run by people and that constituted a good cultural landscape. Now it is three years since the former Minister of Agriculture Kåre Gjønes presented the forest report. The forest report was intended to be a long-term framework condition for Norwegian forestry, which is a long-term industry. I think it's a pity to see that after three years you put a strain on that message, which you managed to achieve a broad majority in the Storting. There is no doubt that the problem in forestry is that there are historically low timber prices. The reduction in the state subsidy has also contributed to less cropping and less restocking. Today's government proposal will have a strong geographical impact on Trondelag, the West and North Norway, which have small areas and difficult terrain. They come out badly compared to the new scheme. If we are to have a forward-looking forestry policy, we must also ensure long-term sustainability. Then society must also contribute, not least in relation to planting and restocking. That is why I was surprised when the representative Gedrem mentioned the conversion that is currently taking place, which is a purely modification of the forest tax system, which constitutes a fraction of the allocation to forest culture, as more robust than before. But I understand that it is seriously meant by the Government. The center party even tried to redeploy money within the framework in order to be able to get a little bit into forest culture, which we were strongly encouraged to do also by the Forest Geyser Association and the forest owners, but could not. My question to Gedrem is: when the Christian People's Party first had to deviate from their own previous forestry policy, they could not at least have made sure that they got a 100 pst. over-depreciation of the new scheme, so that there was some robustness over it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8274	The answer given in the budget to the challenge highlighted by the representative Arnstad – which I appreciate – lies among other things. In the Value Creation Programme, where the point is to increase the value of forest harvested, so that it can provide inspiration for a greater harvest, and get more value out of the timber, thus increasing incentives for individual forest users to use the large resources, which are currently being too scarcely harvested. Elles is overcrowded by the forest planting according to the forest message mentioned by Arnstad. The areas planned for planting are planted. The challenge now is to replant the deforestation areas. That's why we took a couple of comments in the setting here today, asking the department to check and follow up on whether this is actually happening, and that one, if it doesn't, discusses in connection with the agricultural decision whether anything more of the funds can now go to forest culture and be used for this purpose in order to achieve a real replanting of the harvested surface. This is a relatively big problem. Norway has large resources. Therefore, there should be a greater offensive on forest logging. We also help to achieve this through bio-fuels, which also become a bet area. It is right to invest in renewable energy, so that one can also use the forest for such a positive purpose. I hope that the arrangement in the state budget, which we adopt this evening, can help to ensure that the forest is given a new reindeer, added value, and that forest owners increase the focus, so that the forest can benefit from the benefits of the forest message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8285	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8288	We have seen a renewed interest in food and industrial policy this autumn, and I think that is important and positive. In fact, the renewed interest has a certain starting point for Norwegian industry to wear out, and Norwegian industry feels that both interest rate policy and exchange rate are a problem for many of the companies, especially the export-oriented enterprises. It is therefore important and necessary to address this issue. It can also be addressed in a slightly different way. In this context, I would like to refer to the financial debate, where not only the question of a tight fiscal policy, but also the question of the type of monetary policy to be pursued in this country in the future, were important issues. I would like to stress in the context of today's debate that it is not primarily the public welfare that weighs on Norway today. If there's something that's noticed in terms of interest rates and adverse effects in today's Norway, it's actually private consumption. Private consumption is expected to increase strongly in the coming period. For next year it is estimated that public consumption will increase by 0.5 pst, while private consumption will increase by 3.5 pst. Then I think it's a little remarkable when not least the Right Spokesman here has such a strong impact on what he calls the public sector and public consumption, which are really the schools, kindergartens, the care of the elderly and the care of the needy. He knows that it is not public consumption that is going to grow in the future in Norway with this government's policy. That's the private consumption. Not only do you have a tight policy in relation to public welfare, but you also get rid of the small amount of tax relief, in addition to private consumption, rather than target it against Norwegian industry and Norwegian business, which may need tax relief in the situation in which they are in. I'll get back to that a little bit. I believe that Norway, like the world around us, is on its way into a more difficult economic period. We see that the world around us is already characterized by it. It's enough to look at developments in Japan and developments in the United States, all of which have been thought to turn around a number of times, but where there has always been a need to make new interest cuts to slow down a difficult development. We now also see it in the EU countries. I think Norway needs to prepare for how we should also face such a situation. It does not only have to be hoped that the interest rate will now be reduced in relation to the budget submitted. Nor does it help to hope that the Governor will soon see the sense of having a reduced exchange rate with respect to today. It is then necessary for Norway to have an active industrial policy strategy, which takes advantage of the advantages and opportunities we have in Norway in the economic context, and which makes us stronger in relation to the difficult time ahead. My biggest appeal to the Government's budget is that there is a striking lack of a policy on nutrition. It is characterized by what I would call short-term budgetary policy, where one has tried to get the ends to meet in a tight budget, but not a long-term industrial policy. I believe there needs to be a long-term and targeted industrial policy in relation to districts, in relation to maintaining jobs, in relation to research and development, and in relation to continuing to focus on what we are best at. But if we're going to bet on what we're best at, it doesn't just keep saying that we're going to be business neutral. That's not the right term, the right one is that we have to do what they did in some other countries a few years ago: focus on some industries. Why did Finland succeed with Nokia? Well, because in a difficult period for the Finnish economy, they chose to put a massive stake in what they believed in, in the Finnish business world that could be the best. We also have some areas in Norway where we can be if not the best, so at least among the best. Unfortunately, however, the Norwegian State, which receives large revenues from some of these industries, is less and less willing to invest public funds on that type of measure in the economic context. I find that regrettable, because I think it will be important, not least in relation to the difficult time we are facing. And when representatives of this government unisont say that they have heard happy speakers, I have to ask, are they satisfied with those who are concerned with SND? Are they satisfied with those who are engaged in travel life? Are they satisfied with those who are involved in the forest industry? And are those who are concerned with the development of the fishing industry satisfied with the draft budget? I've seen the opposite, and I think there must be a completely different type of targeted investment in government grants, but also in tax relief. Any tax burden should be directly linked to taxes on wealth and inheritance – the kind of thing that makes it easier to operate businesses in this country. On behalf of the Central Party, I would like to raise the 22rd, 23rd and 24th proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8305	The representative Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8310	The centre party says they're busy with districts and district policies. In this context, it is important to ensure good rural jobs, which are stable and safe. The business community gave advice before the budget was presented, the government on how we could contribute to job security, namely: ensure an economic policy that gets interest rates and the dollar down. Following the budget agreement with the Progress Party, the NHO stated: this is a good budget for business, which has become even better. The National Association of Process Industries stated that the budget agreement is very positive for industrial enterprises in the districts. The National Association of Technology Enterprises said that we are very pleased with the budgetary agreement. The central party today appears with an economic policy that is quite different from that of the Government, including, among other things, the government. increased taxes and taxes. In addition, the Centre Party wants to spend more of its oil money. How can the representative Arnstad and the Central Party make a policy that will lead to an increase in interest rates and interest rates, when an overall business life, not least in the districts, is the true opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8319	At first I think it's time we gave the Progress Party some credit for actually correcting some of the most serious mistakes that the Government made in its draft budget, and which it almost looks like the Government will not really stand by anymore. In fact, it wasn't the government that fixed the depreciation rules, it wasn't the government that straightened out the permitting rules, nor the conditions for the seafarers. It was the Progress Party that forced them to do so. And that's good. I agree that the Central Party is in line with the Progress Party. That being said, I have to say, as I tried to say in my post, that lower interest rates are important. The reduction in the rate of charge is important. But it is not enough to pursue a good industrial policy in this country. There is also a need to pursue a targeted and long-term industrial policy in relation to those sectors where you can see that you can be good, and the jobs in the districts that you think it is most important to maintain. Then you have to have an up-to-date SND that can contribute capital to those who want to start new businesses and to those who have business to expand. Then you have to have a travel life bet that is at least in line with what you've promised before. Then you should have a broadband and infrastructure investment related to the new technology, but the government is just turning its hands out and saying they don't want it. At that time, it is also necessary to be willing to invest in building skills, not least in the marine and fisheries sectors. The problem is that there will be no good industrial policy by repeating the mantra ‘lower interest rates’ if one does not at the same time have a business policy strategy. That's my appeal point in relation to the Government. Otherwise, there's no reason to believe that the Central Party's budget proposal would have led to an increase in interest rates or a stronger dollar rate than what we have today. On the contrary, the proposal of the Centre Party to adjust the mandate of the Bank of Norway with regard to the krone price, which we presented earlier this autumn, asking them to take more account of the stability of the krone price, which they actually have as part of their mandate, would have led to a reduction in the krone price compared to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8328	The representative, Arnstad, is talking about having good business strategies. Then we read in the setting: ‘Objective measures across a broad range are also needed to improve the competitive situation...’» That may be all right. But here we go. ‘If we are to succeed in achieving these objectives, it will require increased investment in the fisheries and aquaculture industry over the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries...’ Now, are we going to turn this industry, which we've been able to get free of subsidies for the last 10 to 15 years, into a subsidy industry again? Is it the only tool the Centre Party has, to increase subsidies, to fail? We have an industry that has so large subsidies that barely a person can speak, that is, agriculture. There has certainly not been any success, as we have seen – at least it has not been competitive. Maybe we should also protect this industry with import bans, etc.? I wonder how this is going – is it so to understand that we are going to get a new subsidy? Then I also want to ask the representative a question when it relates to the coastal-sea relationship. I have understood that the representative Arnstad has become the Coastal Fisherman Team's political spokesman. In any case, the central party people in More and Romesdal are in despair over the central party’s fisheries policy, where a no-priority coast over the sea, according to both Hanken and some others – even Hanken was challenged in the Aalesund Shipowners’ Association with a view to telling what the Center Party stands for, and he did not go to the pulpit and take the challenge. But where is the Senter Party? Should the ocean fishing fleet bend, or does it have a future in the central part of the world – even if it is not so big?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8345	I think it is nice that the representative Solholm quotes from the comments of the Central Party in the vote. He should do more of that, and also read them carefully, and I understand that he has done so. It is true that we want a targeted commitment in business policy. In some areas, I also think there are interesting links between the Centre Party and the Advance Party in this respect. This applies, inter alia, to: the issue of access to capital for industry, where we have agreed to propose funds to seed funds. Unfortunately, because of the budgetary agreement, the Progress Party could not be involved in that proposal this year, but we basically have a common position on it. This is also the question of reducing the tax on those who are active owners, by removing taxes on wealth and removing inheritance taxes linked to private enterprises, which facilitate a generational shift. That is the kind of targeted enterprise in the field of industrial policy that I am thinking about in connection with the draft budget of the Centre Party, which we have actually been dealing with in part with the Progress Party. As regards the issue of the fishing industry and the representative of Solholm, in relation to the comments of the Centre Party, the comments are not linked to the need to have a fisheries agreement once again where there is a high level of subsidisation. First, however, there are some welfare schemes, pension schemes, social schemes, which fishermen should also be allowed to participate in and which should definitely go beyond a fisheries agreement. Moreover, in the development of marine industries there is a great need for research and development, and it is a regrettable fact that this government has considerably reduced the appropriations allocated to that investment compared to that in 2001. That's what the Center Party thinks is a pity, because we believe that there needs to be more research on the breeding of different species. Now one has come quite far on cod, but one also has the possibility of other species. More research needs to be done on product development and market developments related to the fishing industry. I also think we should have a practical and reality-oriented discussion on how to sell as much Norwegian fish as possible on the international market instead of the pingpong game that we sometimes run about market access for the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8359	The centre batch has traditionally many food producers as its constituents. I've had the pleasure of meeting some of these food producers in several ways, and it's very positive. But I also experience some considerable conservatism, scepticism, in relation to some new things that SV wants to accomplish in the agricultural industry. I am thinking in particular of conversion to more organic farming. I feel that some farmers don't have any particular faith in it, and that you don't actually see the value of going on getting as safe food as possible. We also perceive that some of the proposals in relation to new animal welfare measures are sometimes ridiculed. As he father and his grandfather did it in the poultry, it was okay, and so we intend to continue with it. It was okay before, and that's why it's okay in the future. I would therefore like to ask the representative Arnstad if, when we are about to deal with an animal welfare report, she is also somewhat sceptical about making some significant improvements to animal welfare in relation to livestock production. I would also like to challenge her on what she thinks about organic food production. Is there something that should be intensified, or is there something that we can only have as a small by-product in Norwegian agricultural production?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8367	Yes, it is true that I belong to a party with a significant number of food producers, and I am proud of that. There are people who do an honest day's work, but who will have to listen to too much hanging both about their own work and their own income of individual parties in this room. I listened to the spokesman of the Progress Party earlier today, and I thought with horror that with his recipe there will not be 3,000 farmers disappearing over a year, but there will be 30 000. It is also jobs around Norwegian districts that disappear. What one might be left with are a few large farms in some parts of the country, which have hired labour from Eastern Europe. I do not want this type of farm in Norway – it is a clear and clear message. I don't feel like the Center Party is stuck to traditions in relation to agriculture. The centre party has supported the objectives of increasing the organic production that the rest of the Stortinget has done and that SV is also behind. I feel that the observation SV has about intensifying the work in today's budget position is a bit to open the doors, for we all have as a goal of 10 pst. production should become organic, and I believe that one is prepared to do what is possible both to raise demand in a market and also to improve the supply of some products in the case of organic food. So the comment on SV we didn't join, because we think it's turning open the doors. With regard to the animal welfare message, I look forward to both the message coming, and the discussion we are going to have in Stortinget, and I am seagoingly open in relation to the proposals that had to come both from the Government and from the Stortinget side in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8379	For the Left, it is obvious that it is not always the individual promises of the various Ministry of Economic Affairs that are decisive for the development of their business. This is precisely why the Left is particularly pleased with the responsible and good budgetary agreement concluded between the Government Party and the Progress Party. Together with a responsible wage settlement, the basis should now be laid for both interest and interest rates to be reduced. This will mean a lot to our business, whether they compete in the home market or in the outdoor market. At the time of the submission of the Government's 2003 draft budget, there was hardly any complaint from various stakeholder organisations and their spokespersons. I believe this cottage has shown that it is important, as the government has done, to resist even when it blows. Norway is a rich country — in natural resources, wealth and well-being. In the last 20 years, value creation and employment have increased steadily and steadily and aided to build one of the world's best welfare societies. Oil and gas production is still very slow in the Norwegian economy. For the next 20 years, we can't, as before, live safely and well on changing oil revenues. The North Sea revenues will be flattened, and then go down. In a short time, they must be replaced by other income. We're going to get a value creation gap that needs to be filled if we're going to keep the welfare community. A large part of the new actions to fill the value creation gap will be knowledge-based. They depend on people with education and skills, a solid research environment and technological development in Norway at the World Summit. The challenge in the current situation in Norway is to use the rise times to convert and renew the parts of the mainland economy that are exposed to competition. In many ways, one can talk about the need for an industrial and industrial counter-cyclical policy, which must have a longer-term perspective than what we have traditionally seen as fiscal counter-cyclical policies. The removal of investment taxes, the extension of tax-reduction schemes for research in industry, more to research in general, both in relation to direct lending and outsourcing in the research fund, and the increase in depreciation rates are important measures that will contribute to the innovation and further development of many businesses. The government’s strong commitment to higher education and private higher education are also important contributions. It is the small enterprises that make up the undergrowth and much of the foundation of Norwegian business. 96 pst. in Norwegian holdings, the addition of less than 20. 80 pst. have added four or fewer. And that's in small businesses the employment boost in the first row comes. The vast majority of major private businesses have been small once. There is a frame for further development that determines whether they are able to grow. Stable framework conditions and a high degree of neutrality in the framework conditions are decisive for these activities. As the majority of the business committee correctly points out in the setting, in recent years it has become a stronger focus on the conditions of small businesses. It is a particular problem for many small enterprises to obtain highly skilled labour or to hold this labour force over time. It can be about the profitability of small enterprises or the lack of professional challenges and opportunities for development in a smaller environment. It is obvious that large companies may be tempted by their research departments for many highly advanced employees. There is a need to find out more about the constraints of recruiting professionals in relation to small businesses. Small businesses want special treatment. Rather, it is common to demand that the policies pursued should work as closely as possible for the various activities. Norway has long and important traditions of equality and equal treatment in relation to public and welfare policy. This must also be the case in business policy. This is why it is important that measures in industrial policy and fiscal policy also take into account that the starting point is different. Therefore, as politicians in our decisions, we must take responsibility for taking care of those who are most poorly equipped to solve the extra tasks imposed on them by the public. The left has faith in the individual human being's ability to create his own good life. Hence, Left says that giving good framework conditions to our business operators is the most important contribution of the public. We don't think it's important to collect taxes and taxes for the state to hand out the money to projects and actions that the state thinks are important, is what is needed to create a living and dynamic business. We believe that the individual nutritionist himself must decide and develop his own business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8407	During the year that has passed, we have been in the Business Committee for several inspections around the country and have been presented to businesses and industries that are concerned with what government and growth is doing in terms of framework conditions and instruments. Some are optimistic about the future, while others are very pessimistic and critical of what is happening and doing in this house. The wishes are different, and I also think the ears that listen to it perceive a little different. The government claims that it is right to have a business-neutral policy and will not introduce specific measures or instruments for some industries, even if some are struggling. There are divided opinions about such a business-neutral policy being correct, and I am not going to go into a debate with the Council of State on this. But one should be careful so that the policy does not become so neutral that some industries disappear between our fingers. It's too late for action on the day it's all gone. It's important that we have a business policy that allows for a varied business life. Norway has a number of natural conditions that we should take care of, and we should contribute to maintaining these industries – many small measures by the country can be important in this way. There are several industries there might be reason to mention, but I'm going to focus on a couple. My first key is travel life. On 31 May 2000 the Economic and Social Committee gave its opinion on the St.melding. No 15 for 1999-2000, also called the Travel Life Communication. It is interesting to read the comments of the nutrition committee at Innst. S. No 209 for 1999-2000. At that time, the entire Committee agreed that a joint brand construction of Norway as a travel destination was a prerequisite for increasing profitability and value creation in the tourism industry. Everyone agreed that priority should be given to funding for this purpose by the public. The Norwegian Tourist Council was responsible for this work. The Committee also provided that the Norwegian Tourist Council should cooperate closely with all parts of Norwegian travel life throughout the country, ensuring that the profiling was in accordance with the wishes of the industry. This was in May/June 2000. The travel industry was very pleased, and several major players in the industry agreed to this promise. Everyone was pleased that a stepping-up plan was to be implemented over five years. The Norwegian Tourist Council Foundation started work, and on 15 July 2001 they delivered the Plan of Stepping Up for the brand construction of Norway as a destination for 2002–2006. I've got it right here. In the budget they had prepared, they assumed that in the first three years the public would go in with a little more than the industry, while for the last two years they assumed that the public and industry themselves would go in with the same amount. In fact, there was a considerable difference between the amounts they operated on in their proposal, and the earmarked amount of government Stoltenberg included in its first draft budget in 2002, but I assume that in the meantime there had been a dialogue between the Government and the Tourist Council. Then came the state budget for 2002, and we got the first cut from the Bondevik II government. Actually, it was only 2 million. kroner in relation to the proposal of the government of Stoltenberg, but we saw a trend. The progress party saved the case last year and got through the budget agreement with the Government on the 2 million. The heads left, plus one more. The travel industry calmly breathed out and grabbed hold of the work on the brand construction escalation plan. But then they got hit this year, and now the cut was 16 million. kr in relation to last year. They lost the entire earmarked amount. Once again, the Progress Party had to step forward with its rescue plank. In fact, it was much smaller this year, you got a small addition, and you're left with a cut in relation to what you agreed on when you started with the escalating plan. What's interesting is to see what's left of the escalation plan that all the parties at Stortinget agreed on in June 2000. Nothing! Everyone is talking about that we have to be predictable in relation to the framework conditions and what we promise. This is not the case in relation to the tourism industry. In fact, according to both the proposal and comments, the Tourism Council can give priority to funds within the budget of 105 million. kr that they now have at their disposal, but there is no escalation in relation to what has been agreed. The Committee has fully described the situation in the tourism industry, with a decrease in the number of tourists coming to Norway and also a decrease in the number of hotel days. There may be many reasons for this decline. The price level has been cited as a cause. But when you see what other countries with some of the same price level we have, power, there's reason to ask themselves what they're paying to build brands for their country. The committee was in Troms and Finnmark a while ago and was among others by the industry’s representatives on the North Cape coast faced what Finland was doing to build the brand name as the country of Christmas residence. The North Pole and Norway are too far forgotten, and we have no claim at Christmas. We have a world-wide unique coast and many beautiful towns. The journey with Hurtigruta along the Norwegian coast is an exotic experience for even the North, at least for us who come from the East. My paradise, Valdres, where I go to relax and get some rest, is another example of what we can offer tourists who come from the stress of the big cities of Central Europe. We know what this is of experiences for people coming further south. That was exactly what the Tourist Council was going to work on. Many in the industry, from Color Line, who sail from Germany – which was one of the countries in which they were to bet – are on to Hurtigruta, which transports people far north. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State Gabrielsen why he has made cuts in support of the Tourist Council. Is it because he believes that the plan for brand construction is not necessary and correct, or is it short and good because he had to cut somewhere? So move on to another important area of industrial development. A few days ago, some of the committee's members were at Design Day here in Oslo, a mass show for Norwegian design. There was also the Council of State Gabrielsen, that is, at least during the opening. In his opening speech, the Council of State spoke warmly about the need for design work. I share his views on this. The working party is therefore very concerned that the work with the Norwegian design centre is now on the rails, and that it will see the light of day in not too long. Norwegian industry has also gained more and more attention for the need for good design in order to survive in an international market. The furniture industry is a good example of this. I have had good contact with representatives of the furniture industry in the last year, and I think the plans for the «Innovation furniture» programme are exciting. We are therefore pleased that the entire committee concluded on the positive comments for this initiative. Cooperation between the industry, the Norwegian Design Council, the SND and the Norwegian Export Council is exciting, and we are sure that when good tools, good expertise and good ideas come together, there will be results. We will follow closely with the next three years. Innovation, research and development are key words for Norwegian business. The companies that are export oriented and will survive in the future must listen to customers and to partners in order to succeed. Therefore, research and development contracts are important. The Workers' Party is disappointed that the Government has cut the appropriations for the OFU and IFU schemes. These are important instruments for innovation by providing risk relief in development phases for the enterprises and establishments involved. The schemes have therefore also been very much in demand. Finally, there is a great difference in the view of the instrument between the partners of the government parties and the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. We are therefore very excited about the announcement about the instrument that we expect to come over Christmas. We are hoping for a proper review of today's tools and proposals, so that in the future we will have an instrument that works, and that it will also have money at its disposal in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8451	The government budget for next year is a good budget for business. We've got a tight budget that dampens the price of the crown and the interest rate, and this was the best thing that could happen to a competitive business right now. In addition, we are doing well with the promises of tax relief. Following the agreement with the Progress Party, the Government has fully completed 19 of the 31 billion in tax reliefs promised in the Sem Declaration. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is also in the process of simplifying the form field and the code of business. Enterprise policy is a whole where it is the sum of measures that are important to business. For this reason, the Government rates lower taxes, increased industrial research, innovation and reinforced efforts for a simpler regulatory framework. The budget shows an increased commitment to research and development in industry. The government has a goal of achieving the OECD level of Norwegian research, and it will be necessary to invest in more research into private business. The government is contributing an increase of 15 pst, or 129 million. kr for nutrient research through the Norwegian Research Council. Of these, approx. Twenty million. kr to strengthen ICT research. In addition, the Government has extended the tax deduction scheme introduced last year to cover all enterprises. These measures represent the greatest promise that has ever been made for industrial research. In addition to this effort, the removal of the air passenger charge and the investment levy will be fully offset in 2003. A number of tariffs are also proposed for removal. So overall, a large part of the tax relief is targeted at business. Participation in EU research programmes has strengthened the competence and competitiveness of Norwegian research communities and enterprises. In the State budget, the Government announces that it will propose Norwegian participation in the new EU Framework Programme for Research and Technology. The costs of this comprehensive programme will amount to about NOK 2.6 billion over the duration of the programme. Participation in the 6th Framework Programme will ensure close contact with European research communities and contribute to the quality of Norwegian research and contribute to knowledge-based innovation. Therefore, the organisation of Norwegian participation is an important policy measure on nutrition. Participation will give Norwegian researchers access to pan-European projects in all the research areas covered by the Framework Programme. The 6th Framework Programme includes, inter alia: nanoconology and nanosciences, multifunctional materials and new production processes and equipment. It includes food quality and food security, aviation and space, sustainable development and global environmental changes. The Programme shall also contribute to the realisation of the vision of a European Research Area. Therefore, it will include measures to stimulate increased research cooperation between countries, improved research infrastructures, increased research mobility and increased participation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Recent figures from the European Commission show that around 900 Norwegian researchers are already involved in different projects in the EU. Infrastructure is important for business. In the budget agreement with the Progress Party, 130 million were allocated. kr extra. Broadband is also an important part of the infrastructure for Norwegian business, particularly in the districts. The right considers, like the Government, that there is demand for broadband services that must control the development. In other words, we are putting in place measures to stimulate demand, among other things. by being an active broadband demander by the public. In addition, ICT has an important role to play in modernising the public sector. In addition, it is an important objective for the Government to comply with eNorway 2005. I would also like to highlight the work of a community electronic signature infrastructure. Finally, I would like to point out that the 2003 budget will provide more money for the coordination of IT policy. Given that there are several departments that have different objectives and approaches in their IT efforts, this is important in order to achieve a comprehensive and coherent IT policy. On top of that, I would urge the representative Olav Akselsen and the Labour Party to make proposal No. 4 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party and the vote on the motion for a resolution for a resolution on transmission proposals, because we do not initially disagree and therefore want the proposals to be forwarded to the Government without a vote of substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8472	It has been said by the government's speakers today that there has been a good budget, and even better since the Progress Party got a little on the steering wheel. But it could have been so much, much better — that's what the truth is. We got the worst results, if we were thinking about nutrition policy, but there are some things left that we should have done something about. But we have to take one step at a time. It is not easy to invert an old horse that is on the wrong track. It was probably not quite parliamentary, President, so I'll take it back. Let me talk a little bit about the marine sector, because that's what I'm busy with. We can all say that the marine sector is an important industry that will have a lot to say to Norwegian society in the future, and perhaps especially after the oil age is over. But it's a big but, and that means that as politicians, we are content to facilitate this industry to become the value-creating industry that we really believe and think – and that says the researchers too – that it's possible to create. But then we must not prevent this industry from developing further. In Norway, we have natural conditions for aquaculture – farming. Yet, in fact, the majority of the political environment is able to transform these natural conditions into a scarce resource in Norway, which may have become the longest coastline in the world. That means we're putting obstacles on obstacles. It's clear that that's what my party was based on. Still wear down this industry with large and strong public interventions and taxes that put such obstacles in the way that we cannot further develop it. Clearly, we have to regulate. Especially on the commercial fishing section, there are certain things we need to regulate, including: the resource take-off. We're going to have a resilient take-off of the resource so that the fishing resource is always there. It must be stable, and we must be able to have this for all future. We in the Progress Party do not want this resource to be overtaxed and lost. We have had a debate in the fall about too large quotas, about negotiations, about overfishing, etc. We can forget that debate quite soon if we do not now, not only from this talking room, but also in practical action, take seriously the increase in the population of people with disabilities, not least in the cell population. In fact, I would like to ask the State Council to carefully consider whether it should not now submit a message or somehow come back to the Stortinget with an action plan on how to save the stumps when it comes to the self-afraid environment in Norway, because there are not many boats going into the ice anymore. This year there was no one from Sunnmore. And one realizes that there can't be much catch when not a sunmer is in the North Sea – to be a little spooky. But this is serious. I also thought that the Council of State would have to think about how to build up this competence, in what way you're going to get self-afraid to go into the ice, to trap and house him, so that the population didn't exceed a certain quantity. If we don't, there's no quota to distribute in 10-15 years, because the pain, the harness and maybe the king crab will eat this up. All that we're going to fish and make money on, they're going to have to eat. Then we're bad out there. So I ask the Council of State to take that with me in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8487	A quick Internet search results in 667 matches with a combination of the words "Per-Kristian Foss" and "Tasselette". A typical quotation such as 'Foss will have tax bills', 'Skattelette mutes the pressure on interest rates' and 'New billions in tax bills'. Tax havens have become an easy-to-sell solution to most policy challenges. Unless policy is taken, the policy challenges shall be addressed. It's the neoliberal chief thesis. However, the Government knows that international experience shows that the level of taxation is not decisive for economic growth. They just don't talk so much about it. The national budget is discreet on page 18 that lower taxes do not lead to faster economic development. The theory that lower taxes are equal to good policies should have been reconsidered a long time ago. It is time to reject the theses now. In the media and in the big debate this fall, the main political difference seems to be between those who want a tight budget and those who want to spend oil money. That's not where the political difference goes. SV's alternative budget is as tight as the government's proposal. We actually spend less money than the Government and the Advance Party add up, but we've re-prioritized with a hard hand. While the government budget is tight for the public sector and points to private consumption, SV tightens private consumption and invests in schools, a targeted business policy and a fair distribution. In addition, we have chosen to give priority to enabling municipalities to produce well-being. This Government is responsible for converting the industrial research policy into a non-directional system of taxation over targeted subsidies. It means today that research on Barbie's flexible legs and purple gum is just as important as research on e.g. new marine species. In fact, Barbie has become even more important than for example. the wild salmon, because neither the wild salmon nor the environment itself has any turnover to deduct the tax advantage from its own research. I appreciate how this can lead to a healthy and sustainable development of the Norwegian economy. Research is part of a larger community that provides business development. They add their skills and investment in new machines are also important sources of innovation, showing surveys. But the government, with the Minister of Industry at the head, was the last to go in to improve the depreciation rules for machines and equipment. I don't get this to hang all together. SV has found in its tight alternative budget room for a commitment to research and development of 600 million. kr greater than the government has proposed. We've added over 200 million. kr for various purposes within marine research. We've strengthened SND by 550 million. SEK, university with 300 million. kr, and various supplements of 300 million. kr, to name something. This is a central and essential part of the SV’s strategy for value creation in this country. Unfortunately, there are no pluralities in this room to keep track of the fishing industry's Competence Centre, Finko. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are proposing a five-million-dollar grant in line with the Government's original proposal. kr, but this won't get multiples. Governments have said no. What happens to Finko now? It seems that neither the Right, the Christian People's Party nor the Progress Party have a good answer to this. They've just pulled out, and then Finko can sort it out. These parties have not yet broken their permissions to allow the necessary funds for conversion and possible liquidation. I think this is a completely irresponsible way of running politics. Politically, this is meaningless. The Ministry of Fisheries has said that they want the state to withdraw from Finko, and that the industry should assume sole financial responsibility. Recruitment and empowerment in the fishing industry is not a public responsibility, meaning the majority of people. The answer from the industry has been that they do not have the ability to finance Finko alone. Obviously that answer is not interesting. Finko has been lending funds to external projects around the country for the last seven years for approx. Forty million. kr. These funds together have been mobilised from a total of 172 million other sources of funding. kr. When you know that, you can see that Finko is a cheap way to do recruitment and empowerment. I think there are a lot of people who are asking us, and the reactions indicate it: what's going on with Finko? Who will take over Finko's work that has been done on the public behalf? Has the Government and the Advance Party thought about it? Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like that, and I think it's very sad at a time when a talk about increasing bets on value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8513	The representative, Lodve Solholm, was injured to learn what he assumed the president looked like an unparliamentary use of words, when he said that the government appears to be an old horse on the wrong course. There are two errors in that statement, as far as it would have been allowed to apply it. One is that it's an old horse. That's wrong. It is a young, broken workhorse that is not on the wrong course, but is definitely on the right course. But I understand Lodve Solholm's business, which is moving at the pace of the course that the government has taken. The debate we have today relates to the budgets of three different departments, but much goes hand in hand with the main priorities and the profile of industrial policy. When the chairman of the committee, the representative Aksenssen, talks about the fact that the Council of State has traveled country and beach around to minimize the situation in the Norwegian industry, I have to say that that is a very wrong description. As far as I know, the representative Akselsen has never heard me comment on these things. He may have read some headlines in some newspapers, and as he himself knows, these write very strangely. It is enough to show that in his line with the representative Ryan he made a relatively different version of what he had thought about the EEA Agreement, in relation to what the representative Jagland had to go out and extinguish fire earlier. But I accept that you have different descriptions of each other's travel activities. What I have at least discovered on my travels is that the alternative business policy served by the Workers' Party is not very much in demand. It's actually not really requested at all. Yes, it's actually that it's never mentioned. In all the recordings that have come after the government's presentation of the budget, I have actually not heard anyone wanting to replace the entire government's policy in this area with the entire Labour Party's policy in this area. That there are some who want to pick the best in several stalls, is something else. I think it's important to try, when drawing this picture, either one is the Council of State, head of the committee or what one is, to give a somewhat nuanced picture of what's the situation. There is no doubt that the world economy, as it appears today, also enters Norwegian business. There's no doubt that there's a not insignificant working factor in us too. To the extent that we now probably experience a situation in the future where we can expect a certain increase in unemployment, which we have announced to the extent that we may be at risk, there is still a deportation in relation to some other countries that it is natural to compare with. I also record that there is actually a relatively broad disintegration of the main steps in Norwegian industrial policy as it is conducted and as it appears, and not least in terms of reducing taxes and taxes. I do not believe that the budget agreement we made with the Progress Party here in Stortinget helped us in the field of industrial policy to ensure that we made further positive changes in the direction of industrial policy. In any case, it is certain that the uncertainty that has occurred during the harvest in relation to the entire budgetary procedure is perhaps one of the most negative. Now at least it's brought to an end. Another thing related to the representative Akselsen was in this line with regard to the EEA Agreement: I would say that one of the major challenges facing Norwegian business in the future will be market access, not least related to the enlargement we have in the EU, but also to other markets. The new situation is that countries in the East are now beginning to conclude free trade agreements. They haven't done that before. It will mark the Norwegian fishing industry – when Chile now enters into agreement with South Korea, and where Norwegian exporters have 10-20 pst. That's great. So a few words related to seafarers, which it's been talked about. The representative Hedstrøm has a relatively precise description of what has been the political situation in this area. The Crocodile tears of the Workers' Party will I say steam away before they reach the bottom. When I saw the representative Hedstrøm and the representative Stoltenberg with the lifebuoys in front of the Stortinge here earlier this fall, the thoughts went right back to the budget proposals that the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party himself has promoted to wind up precisely these arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8533	I first register that I did not receive an answer to my question, but it may well have been because the Council of State was not present in the Chamber when I asked it. With regard to the industrial policy of the Workers' Party, it is not requested by anyone, said the Council of State. It depends on where you are and who you listen to. At least that's my experience after traveling around. The government writes in the proposition: ‘In a demanding budgetary situation, the government has chosen to give priority to the general business framework and to reduce the industry-specific support.’;» In the financial speech of 3 October, the State Council of Per-Cristian Foss followed up with the following: ‘In the light of the demanding budgetary situation, the Government will give priority to the overall business environment and reduce the industry-specific support. The reimbursement scheme for seafarers and the net pay scheme for staff on international ferries are therefore proposed for removal.» Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said in the financial debate: ‘In the case of the maritime industries, the Government, of course, has no objective to liquidate them — on the contrary. Norway has such proud traditions in this area and has such good conditions for operating maritime industries that it is our wish that they continue to operate under conditions of competition which are as similar as those with which we compete. Now there are no common rules in the EU in this area. The EU has opened up the reintroduction of yard support and other mechanisms in this area, but the EU has not adopted a common policy across all EU countries. We therefore found it right in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party to amend the arrangement somewhat in these areas.' With the government's principal change of course, one would think they're happy for the loss of the yard support. As a result of EU legislation and the EEA Agreement, the yard aid was phased out from 1 January 2001. However, the EU has again put in place a limited support mechanism to protect the European shipbuilding industry from what the Commission considers to be illegal Korean aid. Surprisingly, everything suggests that the Minister of Industry has now given in, and that the Government will now follow up the yard support, despite the fact that one according to the EU violates state aid rules. Then one might wonder why the government can't do that in terms of maritime nutrition and Norwegian sailors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8557	That was two things the representative was in on. One was the yard aid, and the other was linked to the net pay scheme. The description of what to do in the yard support area is relatively accurate. However, the question was why we would not introduce Norwegian seafarers' schemes similar to what has been done in the EU. I do not know what reasons the Labour Party has for not doing this – not least after the spring and summer that you have had – because I cannot find in the draft budget of the Workers' Party that the Workers' Party has done this. One got the clear impression when one saw Stoltenberg with this lifebuoy in front of him, that the Workers' Party intended to introduce the net pay scheme. I can't see that you've chosen to do that. And the reason why we didn't include it in the draft budget is exactly what the Minister of Finance has said earlier in the Storting, and which, to the extent that we have all said, is the reason why we couldn't, within the budget we made, give priority to the introduction of the net pay system. I would also like to say that once we have made the agreement we have made with the Progress Party, it means that we are continuing this. Sooner or later there should be a discussion about it. If you don't have a scheme that's general, that applies to the entire fleet, you might also need to discuss for the future within the limited resources you have, what priorities you do. We've done it before. I think it's pretty important that the means we use on this, we use it relatively accurately. However, the reason why the Government did not include it in its draft budget is exactly the same as the reason why labor party governments in previous years have not had it, including the government in which the committee leader has participated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8565	It is in this way that some state enterprises are under the responsibility of the Business Committee in budgetary terms. A previous authorisation has been granted from the Storting to the Government for full sale or sale in four businesses. It's Arcus, Olivin, Moxi Trucks and SND Invest. In the media during the day, there is a big look at this with sales or sales of them. 130 unlisted companies in SND Invest that it is difficult to realise the real values of these companies and that significant funds can be lost. After all, I know our Minister of Economic Affairs from his place in the Business Committee, he was very busy caring for the values of society, or the taxpayers' money, as he often said. I don't take too good fish all a reader in the media, because I've learned that it's often trendy and twisted. That's why it could be good for us in the committee to know what kind of arrangement the Ministry of Economic Affairs has here. Do you want to use time to realize these values, so that society can get back a good part of what are the real values, to use in a sensible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8572	The Ministry of Economic Affairs has authorised full sales in Arcus, Olivin, SND Invest and Moxi, and all of these companies are considered to be related to sales. We've had those powers for a relatively long time. For Moxi's part, we've sold out half. It's an option that goes out in not very long, related to Moxi. In the other companies, we also have in reality processes related to sales. What is definitely not selling companies that we believe have a value of twice that market, for example. will be willing to give. So you could say, well, then the value is not greater than the market would give. But then it is for some of these companies so that we consider possible upside. We have no trouble with any of these sales. But at the moment that we see that the real value is possible to take out where we've been authorised, it's going to be sales. In the case of SND Invest, I can say that there we have a completely concrete process in progress related to the sale of SND Invest. I have also seen in the media that someone has had assumptions about the value of SND Invest. You never know why these things come in the media, you should not ignore the fact that potential buyers will be interested in trying to turn the value down by making sure it comes in the media. There's a lot of people with microphone tripods that jump out and out of this house and that are happy to write. I think that might also be the case here. But I don't intend to sell SND Invest for anything near the amount that was mentioned in the media, as far as I remember, was 400 million. kr. It is liquidity in this company that is probably twice that amount, and the value is likely to be quite different. But if I find a buyer, the company will also be sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8579	The next line comes from Inge Ryan – Ryan. The President has problems with the name, even as pleasant as Ryan is!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8585	I'm sorry the President has problems with his name, but we must get to it soon! I have three questions for the Council of State. Question 1 is in relation to South Varanger. We see that South Varanger is one of those conversion municipalities that actually look pretty promising. There has been a lot of positive in South Varanger in recent years in relation to establishing new jobs and preventing significant relocation. But at the same time, we know that they have a piece left, and they have based their business on getting some income from the state in this process of conversion. Is the strong reduction to South Varanger in understanding with the South Varanger community, or is it something that has only been done to balance the budget? Question 2: Is the Council satisfied with the fact that we have now received a Regional Fund for Deprived Areas, satisfied in the sense that the Government sees it as an important task to also make a power cap in underprivileged areas, so that they have the opportunity to recover from a wave valley that could lead to the depopulation of these communities within a relatively short period of time? Question 3 is the following: The representative Kristiansen said that it was a very good budget the government had presented to business, but when the Progress Party came in, it got significantly better. Does this mean that, at the next budgetary procedure, the Government will have an even greater dose of the Medicine of the Advance Party into the budget, so that the budget is even better?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8596	The representative Ryan had three questions. One was South Varanger and conversion. As the representative said, there is a lot of positive happening in South Varanger. It is almost comical to say that after the state ceased business in South Varanger, everything has gone so much better up there. But as far as I remember, it's approx. NOK 4.5 billion, which was invested in front of this area. A South-Varanger conversion package has been created, and the government has reduced next year's transfer to South-Varanger in the agreement we have made with the Advance Party. It's a one-sided grip from the Government's side. Question 2 was about district funds and industrially deprived areas. I am very pleased that SV and Ryan, in connection with the establishment of a possible district fund, have been engaged in investing in profitable businesses in the districts and to the extent that in economically weak areas. There is no doubt that in some areas of the country we need instruments. That is why we are spending considerable money on the budget of the Ministry of Industry, in so far as, but not least, it is above the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. This fund is intended to be used to further strengthen this. The representative also referred to the statement by the representative Kristiansen that this very good budget had improved even after it had been negotiated with the Progress Party. Well, that's for the record, you can see that the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party strengthened some of the points that went into the fields of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industry. I realized that this was the first thing the representative of Kristiansen said, and that must be acknowledged – and for that matter give praise to the Advancement Party for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8605	I thought I heard the Minister of Industry say that the uncertainty about the budget in the autumn was one of the issues that has had a negative impact on industrial policy. Then I would like to remind you that it is a minority government responsibility to adopt a budget in Stortinget. The adoption of a budget is not the responsibility of the opposition. It would have been a completely new parliamentary practice. So if the Government believes that there is an uncertainty that has worked negatively, it is in the case of a responsibility that the Government has to assume. I'll ask you a few questions. One is: several times in the speech to the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Government ‘was unable to find room for’ in this budget — did not find any economic room for it. But does not the Council of State see that it is not possible to find a 'room for' which could mean that the long-term and the stability needed by business can actually be abandoned in favour of a more short-term budgetary policy? I am thinking then of the framework conditions for the seafarers and the cut off of the tourism industry, where a strategy has been adopted, and the relationship with the SND. The second thing I want to ask is that the right is concerned about using tax incentives to stimulate business. Why is it so impossible to apply to tax reliefs in the form of reduced taxes on food wealth or reduced taxes on inheritance taxes linked to food wealth? Why does the tax burden have to be imposed in addition to the top tax, which only helps to increase private consumption? Why is it not possible to direct Right-wing tax relief to very specific things that benefit private owners in business and to the direct conditions of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8614	I fully acknowledge that it is the responsibility of the Government and Government parties to provide a budget. But it would, in my opinion, be too one-sided to say that it is exclusively the government parties, and for that matter the government's responsibility and work to provide the country with a budget. Finally, a majority of national Parliaments need to do so. When I said this that goes on uncertainty in general in the autumn, it's related to the fact that there's a minority government; uncertainty about getting a budget is in itself not a good thing in the overall picture. So there can be no doubt. The representative, Arnstad, said that it had been said up to several times that one “could not find room for”. I fully recognise that there are several areas in the budget where, in isolation, you could have wanted other numbers. But in relation to an overall goal of having a totality connected, you didn't get room for it. Then again there was this with seafarers and as well as a lack of stability in the area that had been used as an example. And why would you cut it? It's probably for the exact same reason, probably, that the government Arnstad himself was a member of. In the case of tax lighters linked to specific, e.g.: private owners – this is working capital, this is inheritance tax, etc. – it is true that in the budget, in part, and in the agreement we have made with the Progress Party, we have come a bit on the way. However, this government has an ambition of a further DKK 12 billion in tax relief during this large-scale period. And there is no doubt that taxes on ownership will be an essential element after the Skage Committee has given up its position. It'll be in next year's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8623	The Council of State confirmed that several representatives from the Government Party had previously done so by saying that the budget would be better with an agreement with the Progress Party. Then one must be allowed to wonder why in all the world it would take so long. It must be because the government party did not want this improvement. It has been a good deal of focus in this debate on seafarers and their conditions. I feel that I am quite reasonable, based on the situation that has arisen during the last year. So there is a significant difference between the Labour Party and the Government Party in this area, and the significant difference is that the Workers' Party did not actually make choices to improve these arrangements, unlike the Government Party, which had very clear, concrete promises and which confirmed it in letters to business organisations within this industry. Then it is that in the period since the Labour Party proposed to change this in the negative direction, our neighbours have made improvements, and the EU has made decisions. Therefore, the actual situation is different today than he was just two years ago in this area. And it's not that the Labour Party has locked itself into a concrete or specific model. The only thing we've said is that we want to be at the disposal, so that the Right and the other government parties can have the opportunity to implement their promises, and that such a decision should lead to stability, so that one can not be afraid of any government change and that kind of thing. And so is it that I thought that this about being able to walk from such promises should have a certain consequence. The Minister of Labour has said that one should not do anything special to save the industrial workplaces in Norway – they belong to history, as far as I know. I mean this is too passive. We have the best and purest process industry in the world, and moving him to China has nothing to do with it. But I could imagine asking the Minister of Industry to confirm whether he is in agreement with the Minister of Labour or not in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8641	We will probably continue for months and years and talk about the differences between the views of the government parties and the Labour Party on the reimbursement arrangements. The significant difference, as I can see it, is – to be admitted – the positions that have been held in opposition and in position. This shall apply in so far as both parties are concerned. So to the extent that you want to put the final result, I think I'll put 0-0 on it. With regard to the second issue raised by Akselsen — which, in my opinion, is much more useful — relating to industrial workplaces, related to the process industry and, for the sake of industry in general, there is no doubt that industrial workplaces are a very important element and, in fact, a basis for much of the rural settlement in this country. And I don't even dare think of a situation where we would just sit still and see that Norwegian competitive business would disappear altogether. Of course, in the process industry in particular, the representative Akssen is quite right that we probably have the world's most environmentally friendly production of metals. Few people use less kilowatt hours to produce a kilo of metal than what we do. And we have some challenges in this area that are absolutely fundamental in terms of framework conditions. Now I am not going to take the mantra related to interest, linked to the price of the crown, etc., but the electricity charge is a string in that way. And the Akselsen mentioned in his previous post that there was a danger that one would have to apply the electricity tax to the process industry, with the consequences it has. It is definitely that it will have consequences. But it's an alternative to introducing it for everyone; it's to remove it for everyone – just to mention one – which, for my part, seems more close to saving Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8650	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8654	This year's budget is not a budget adapted to the difficult situation of the country's jobs now. I do not think the problem is that it is being used too little money, but that the money used is being used incorrectly. The tightness of the budget is important, but we do not solve any problems by increasing the purchasing power of the richest through large tax cuts, on the contrary. What we need now is an effort to save Norwegian industry and to help those who want to establish business to get started. To do this, we need a strong SND, we need municipal nutrition funds, we need a great deal of work for empowerment in all industries. Instead, this government is talking more and more about business neutrality and less about setting up the necessary measures to save Norwegian jobs. When, in addition, the Government cooperates closely with the Advance Party, the situation will not improve. I want to shed light on some areas that clearly show how misguided such a policy is. Fisheries and aquaculture are of course all produced as a major industry for the future, and expectations are also high. The fishing industry is compared to the oil industry and is to become the major heir when the oil has to be phased out as an industry. This is a good perspective for the future, which we agree on. In such a situation, it is incomprehensible to me that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right in their budgetary agreement with the Advance Party will cut off any public participation in the Fisheries Competence Centre, Finko. Here the government began its cut in the budget for 2002 and followed up in the 2003 proposal by cutting to 5 million. kr, and in the agreement with the Advance Party, this was completely null and void. The Minister for Fisheries can be interpreted as meaning that there was no victim to cancel this in the negotiations with the Progress Party. The Minister for Fisheries states that he regards recruitment and development of competence in the fishing industry as the industry's own responsibility. The Minister for Fisheries has focused on the fact that enough tax money has now been used for this purpose since the beginning of 1991. My question will then be: does it not matter to the Council of State that this effort has contributed to 3 300 workers in the fishing industry having received their professional letters — the same training as the young people now take over a four-year period? In addition, many fishermen have received their skipper training, many young people have been given foreign jobs to acquire their skills, and many teachers have learned about the fishing industry through material and practice. Priority work for Finko has been entrepreneurship and cooperation with business. Doesn't such things mean anything to this government? From the Labour Party, we have prioritised Finko in our budgets, because we believe that recruitment and empowerment are one of the most important countries that can contribute to the fisheries and aquaculture industry, and because we can see that this public effort triggers significant sums and efforts from industry itself. We believe that this is a good public investment. After the budget agreement, we could see in the papers that large-scale representatives from the government parties and the Progress Party said that this had gone well, and that they were willing to look at the matter of Finko again. However, despite the invitation from the Workers' Party and our proposals that were within the scope of the agreement, it was clearly refused to grant finance to Finko. I do not think that the attitude of the Government Parties and the Advance Party in such matters is to spread optimism towards the practitioners of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. This is not about large sums in the budget. It's about will. Let me also take for myself another district industry — the forest. With a single intervention, the Government terminates the scheme of forest culture grants and the scheme of grants for the transport of timber. For the first time in approx. 100 years shall not contribute to forest travel in that country. This proposal by the Government came very surprising to everyone in the industry and to the others. Who would think the government would cut out a scheme that has contributed so well to the creation of value in District Norway? The Norwegian Forest Association says that the government parties and the members of the Progress Party will have a particular impact on forestry in the West, in central Norway and in northern Norway. They also say that only a few really large forest owners in the East will get pretty good out of this. Is this the policy of these parties and of this government? Is this the way you use the whole country and stimulate the creation of wealth in all parts of the country? From my own county, Troms, the message is unique: this means closures of nurseries, reduced production, less care for young forest, less summer work for schooling, reduced income for single use, etc. Everyone talks so much about agriculture having to get more legs on to cope with the competition, but now the legs are cut off from those who have the forest as an addition. When the Stortingen in 1999 dealt with St.meld. No 17 for 1998-99, the so-called forest report, there was a broad majority here in the United Kingdom who said that a relatively high and stable level of subsidies was needed. So what has now happened is in stark contrast to what the majority said just three years ago. This does not create exactly predictability for this industry. In the case of Norwegian shipping, it is incredible how quickly opinions can be changed at government parties. In the opposition, the government parties criticized the Workers' Party to make too little for Norwegian shipping, whatever was done, and the organisations received written confirmation of what would be done if the Right came into position. That's why it was probably a shock to everyone that the government in its budget paper proposed to cut all the arrangements that they once thought would have to be much better. Even an invitation from the Workers' Party for a broad settlement to save Norwegian shipping was met with a cold shoulder from the Minister of Industry. After all, it is not often that the opposition invites a government to settle a settlement that can fulfill the government party's own electoral promises. It's amazing that such an invit is not received in a constructive way. The Labour Party now has a proposal for consideration in Stortinget, which aims to save Norwegian shipping. I hope that this will be treated positively and met with a more positive attitude from the government parties than the one we have seen so far. The question is whether the Progress Party may influence its partners in this matter, or whether it is the Progress Party that must bow down to the Government Parties. The working party is committed to finding solutions that can create a broad majority and which can put in place measures that provide predictability and competitive conditions that ensure that Norway can continue to be a solid shipping nation, with jobs for Norwegian seafarers. That's what this case is about. I have been here in some areas that show that political governance is still necessary to ensure Norwegian jobs, and to create the skills that are needed. Market forces cannot control everything. That is why political action and political action must be taken. There are many professionals who have so far felt their jobs safe, but who, in the light of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, have come into a much more precarious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8692	The government has provided a budget for the renewal and conversion of Norwegian agriculture. Our main perspective is the individual farmer and food producer as a self-employed person. If we are to succeed in having agriculture throughout the country during the coming period, this is a necessary focus of the authorities. We need to maintain confidence in Norwegian food and at the same time make better use of the opportunities available on the market. Only in this way can we provide a framework for increased profitability and the basis for optimism and new agricultural giving. Conversion of forest policy, changes in agricultural policy and the establishment of a common food surveillance system for land-based and sea-based food production are important steps towards a greater renewal of agricultural policy. I note that there is a broad consensus on food and agricultural policy, as expressed in the Committee's position. It is positive that the Committee supports the Government's efforts to ensure the scope of action for a continued active agricultural policy by influencing the processes and negotiations in the WTO, agreements with the EU and other international work. The framework for forestry has changed in recent years and has led to declining profitability. Forests and fields are valuable resources that can make a good contribution to value creation and the environment if they are properly managed. The government believes it is a major challenge to make better use of forest resources and will therefore stimulate innovation, product development and better market adaptation. The government proposes a reform of forest policy to ensure that the economic framework conditions for the forest sector are stable, but at the same time simpler and more robust. The forest tax system is central to stimulating investments in forestry, and I have noticed that there is a broad consensus on the proposal to increase the tax advantage on investments with a forest tax. The government also proposes a sharp increase in the value creation programme for the use and processing of wood. At the same time, the Government has proposed that the arrangements for state subsidies to forest culture and transport be phased out. However, I note that the Committee wants to maintain the transport aid scheme in North Norway and will follow this up. With the conversion of forest policy, the government gives individual forest owners greater responsibility for building new forests and finding the optimal adaptation to their property. In the long term, the conversion will lead to increased investment and profitability in industry. Together with the commitment to the protection of the forests and bioenergy, the conversion of forest policy also contributes to strengthening the environmental dimension of forestry. The government emphasises that agricultural professionals are self-employed. We will therefore take greater account of uses where agricultural production is an important contribution to income. In addition, there is a need to implement structural adjustments that increase the scope of action of individuals. The government is therefore proposing an agricultural policy with fewer regulations, simpler legislation, stimulation of industrial development, increased value creation and more market output. I am pleased with the support of the establishment of the Food Safety Authority in the Committee. It is a key task of the Government to ensure the safety of good quality food for the citizens. This has shown not least the recent weeks of the discovery of the state of some of our grocery stores. The establishment of a joint food surveillance body for land-based and sea-based food production is a major and far-reaching reform and an important and decisive step towards achieving this objective. In order to achieve the objective of sustainable agriculture, agricultural policy must have a comprehensive perspective where environmental considerations are integrated into all policies. A central area is sustainable management of natural resources. The government wants to give priority to the monitoring of biodiversity and the conservation of genetic resources. The government focuses on exploiting the opportunities of the forest sector to meet important environmental challenges. Increasing forest protection will be an important element in the overall management of forest resources. In addition, agriculture as a producer, user and supplier of bioenergy can contribute to the increased use of new renewable energy. Here a mature market is clear for those who want to bet. I am pleased that the Committee supports the important work of adapting the number of pure to the grazing basis. Together with a sustainable reindeer, efforts shall be made to increase the value creation from reindeer management. Both traditional further processing and use of by-products and other niche industries must be further developed. The Government wants to strengthen research and increase efforts in the areas of action of the Action Plan for Agricultural Research, with particular emphasis on research on safe food, climate and energy. It is an important task for me, as Minister of Agriculture, to ensure that the citizens are safe and of good quality food. The debate on food — and hence on agricultural policy, both national and international — is increasingly marked by a debate on value. Consumers also show an increasing interest in how food is produced, processed and traded. These considerations must form the basis for policy-making, and consumers must have the opportunity to contribute to shaping this policy for our common good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8727	This evening, the budget will be adopted, inter alia: it implies for the first time that the State is about One hundred years will not contribute to forest travel, as I said in my post. The reactions to this have been very strong around the country, which I understand when we know what the value creation of the forest has been giving for all years. In addition, it has meant a great deal to employment, and it has been a complement to existing farms. The Norwegian Forestry Association says that only a few really large forest owners in the East will get out of this, and that for forest owners in the West, in central Norway and in northern Norway, this budget from the government parties and the Progress Party will be hard hit. The forestry association says that this is not a good budget for the industry. I have registered that the Minister of Agriculture has indicated that the other arrangements for forestry are so good that the cuts do not matter in this context. The government has probably also stated that the problem is just that you have not understood what it is about. Has the Forest Association and everyone else misunderstood the forestry situation, or is this budget a budget for centralisation? Does the Government want to centralise forest activity to the east? Is this the ‘small steps’ that the representative Ivar Kristiansen was talking about earlier today? Does not mean what was said in the forest report, St.meld. No 17 for 1998-1999, what for Minister of Agriculture Sponheim today? He was in the government that time, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8738	The development of forestry in the last 20 years is a strong centralisation and the removal of profitability from forestry. It is roughly the same nominal price in the accounts for forestry in 2001, as it was 20 years ago. This means that profitability is largely left in the central and good forest areas. It is a consequence of what has been development and the policies of the last few years. The focus now needs to be on getting profitability back in forestry in such a way that it becomes more profitable to mowing outside what we can call the ‘indrefilet’ areas of the forest, which are very often located in very central eastern areas. Then to the story. First of all, let me say that there are three sources of State contribution to forest culture: it is the direct appropriations for the state budget outside the agricultural agreement, which are proposed to be abolished here, that is what the State contributes to the forest tax system through the tax advantage, which is considerably strengthened, and then there are forestry cultural appropriations within the agricultural agreement, which in sum are just under 160 million. kr, and which, as the representative Gedrem indicated, also covers more than forest culture. Norway had extensive forest travel plans in the last century, and the Stortinget adopted them in the 1950s and 1960s. They are very close to being fulfilled, when we also consider that the entire environmental debate on forestry and planting in coastal areas has emerged after the adoption of these plans. Of the total plans of a little over 5 million cover forests, 3.6 million are planted out. For Middle Norway and Trøndelag, the forest travel plans have been fully implemented, because the new areas, on which there was no forest before, were to be put into service. For North Norway, they're about done. In the Western world, there is still some, but there is also the greatest environmental debate on the use of open coastal landscapes for granular plants. It is for these areas that this policy has consequences. Forest travel is over on areas that do not already have a spruce. Where you cut, through the forest tax system, it will be a good economy to plant again. It was significantly strengthened in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8747	I remember when our Minister of Agriculture was Minister of Industry at the Bondevik I government. He was very concerned about the framework conditions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and established a programme for a simpler Norway. I also listened with interest to his comments a week ago in the financial debate, where he was concerned about something of the same, namely the modernisation of the public sector, and, as he also mentioned today, legislative changes and simplifications. The public sector in Norway is soon recruiting every third person. Many of them do a very good job, but it's more than twice what they have in the public sector based on an average in the EU. The government is of the opinion that we lack labour in Norway in a number of areas. It should be good to be able to channel a part of this modernisation process into the areas of the private sector where there is a shortage of labour. When we look at agriculture, we have a well-regulated system of laws from the interwar period, at least 50, 60 and 70 years old, adapted to a completely different time. We have an agricultural settlement that includes over 100 different schemes and approx. 4000 people, if we take them with us within the agricultural offices that manage these support schemes. This had to be in the middle of the reform that the government is now working on. What do you do to simplify this? This becomes an extra expense that the farmers have to bear on their backs. Is there any timetable for improving efficiency, rationalising and reducing red tape in this part of the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8756	The representative Hedstrøm, both in this line and in previous speeches from this pulpit, has pointed to what he sees as too slight changes in the agricultural area. Yeah, I guess. I experience the changes as big and that they happen at a speed that, in my opinion, is not good enough to increase. Take the agricultural transfers: they were in the 1980s at 6.8 pst. by the State budget. Today they are on well and well 2 pst. There have been major changes. Over the last 12 to 14 years, agricultural transfers over the state budget have been just under 12 billion kroner. It's been roughly the nominal amount the whole time, and so inflation has fallen roughly. For this money we have managed to keep a well-stocked country, all the land is in use, you can travel all over Norway and see well-stocked buildings on Norwegian gardening and see a cultured landscape that is rigid. I don't know if I can allow myself from this chair to ask the representative Hedstrom to travel to Sweden, but if the trips go further than Stroemstad, a little on the outskirts of Sweden, he won't find the same well-maintained landscape, that all the land is in use, and maybe not so well-furnished buildings either. That's what we've got, and that's what we call producing collective goods, which, fortunately, the Norwegian people are doing quite collectively to keep us doing through the state budget. But that doesn't mean that everything has to be the way it has been. There must be changes. Professor Almås has said that you need to change in order not to change everything. I think that is quite a good word to explain what is now happening in agriculture, namely that we need to rationalise some of the volume production, but that we need to get new industries that can be part of a growing economy and take out a growing price – product areas with a different price elasticity, in order to use economic words. I think that can bring with it a lot of new, exciting industries around Norwegian horticulture, and it will provide a more robust agriculture in the future. That's to rule in big, but maybe to let go a little bit more loose in small. It is likely that the Progress Party and the government parties will separate the layers of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8767	As big business representatives, we have received a number of enquiries from the forest industry, and it is quite clearly negative in relation to the conversion. Among other things, I sit with Namdals-Avisa from 29 November, where forest owner Wengstad is interviewed: – ‘Is it a rage of forestry?’ Rapping is a harsh word, but it’s not far away, he answers. – What happens, at least the optimism, says Kjell Arne Wengstad. That kind of feedback has been given to several of us from forestry, and then my question is to the Council of State: are there those who work in forestry for daily, who are so thoroughly wrong, or can it be that this conversion may have happened a little quickly, without one having thought about all the consequences? Then I have another question, and it's relative to bioenergy. Governments spoke positively about bioenergy, and we are very pleased about that in SV. We believe that in these times of lack of energy we can be horrified that we do not have more bioenergy production to heat up various houses etc. We know that it's a problem to get profitability in bioenergy – yes, today, with current prices it's profitable, but with normal power prices it's very problematic to get profitability in it, because it's, among other things. is very labour-intensive. But if we had, on the other hand, got a big investment in bioenergy in Norway, it would have resulted in a lot of district work, and it would have contributed to a lot of new energy. Does the Council of State realize that the Government can do some action that can help to create a charging system or other mechanisms that allow bioenergy to compete with other types of energy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8783	Yes, I will actually allow myself to go so far as to say that here the forest industry is wrong. It has largely fought against new grips, new ways of seeing things constantly. When my former colleague, the National Council of Finance, of the Bondevik I government, launched the value creation program, the forest industry didn't have a particular sense of it. It was actually initiated by the policy, which said that they can no longer just deliver two "four" from the case users, or simple products at a low price, or focus on painting the wooden stick up to fiber to make paper. We have to look for product areas. We have to train the architects to build exciting buildings, as we now experience that they are beginning to understand through the efforts of the authorities through the value creation program. Now we can even build a wooden car park. And we should develop new product areas within the wood field. That's what can bring the better economy back to the individual forest owner, which makes it interesting to offer quality forest work to a mature market, not the old-fashioned volume thinking. Forestry has thought of stocks in Norwegian Forest and how to paint up the wooden stick to paper fiber for too long. Now we have to think of new, modern products that people are willing to pay for. That's what we're doing with this bet. That's what we do with the value creation program. At the same time, we take the necessary environmental considerations, as the environmental movement has asked, namely by not reusing open landscape along the entire coast of Norway to plant spruce. We have enough spruce and enough spruce. We've never had more standing biomass in Norwegian forests than now, and bioenergy, I think, will be the new large volume range in Norwegian forestry. There has been a good economy in wood production for many years. We hope to develop new and even better bioenergy products for consumers, for example: through pellets. Now, the grinding price, i.e. the price of grinding pulp mills or timber into paper, in large parts of the country, is so bad that it makes more sense, for example. to paint it up to pellet and to produce bioenergy. It is a good development that the Government will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8790	It is not difficult to associate with the description that there has been poor profitability in forestry in recent years, that one has little left for it a harvester. It is also not difficult to agree to a description that some innovation is needed. But I just think it's weird that one should start the innovation by removing so many millions of dollars from the budget. Because no matter how the Minister of Agriculture chooses to turn around and turn it around, there is actually much less total appropriations for forest culture than it has been in the past. One cannot use the whole LUF pot as an argument and say it's forest culture. It's not increased by a single penny from last year. What you're increasing in relation to the value added program is 19 million. kr. That one gets in reduced proceeds due to a forest tax, is 9 million. kr. But what one takes away in the allocation is 63 million. kr. It means a reduced bet on an industry that needs increased bet. That's what worries the industry's sea, and I have a lot of understanding for. It is a little difficult for the representatives of the government parties: on the one hand, the Minister of Agriculture is now standing up and defending that this is a solid change and innovation, while another representative of the government parties says that we have to look at whether there are any adverse effects to be recovered in a way in the agricultural agreement. It's a double communication. If a person wants robust forestry, it is a poor strategy to start with a significant reduction in the funds for forest cultivation, and it has a geographical impact. But I'm not against a forest tax system. I think it's good. If it is the case that the Minister of Agriculture here wants a new idea, why can he not just increase the forest tax scheme to give 100 pst. Deduction right away? Then we get really fast in an industry that needs new profitability, and that needs new optimism and faith in the future. And why was it necessary to remove the degression that relatively gives a greater tax relief or deduction for those who are the greatest?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8801	I think it's promising when the Central Party's nutritionist spokespersons here say that now it's important that we focus on the profitability of forestry, maybe prioritizing it by using public money, and then we talk about the value creation program, or how to get a higher price on the timber. Planting into an open coastal landscape with new granulous plants, which, at best, if it can provide quality services at all, could generate income in 80 to 100 years, is not to focus on the profitability that forestry needs today. And I agree that there is a need for innovation. I think it is innovative that more people recognize the need for new thinking throughout the forestry sector. And I believe that the bet on the value creation program in the forest, which is just about what I expressed in the answer to the previous line, is such a necessary bet. So I think that forestry, an industry that is very low-subsidized, maybe not at all beyond the long-term investments – where it is important for us to make the business economy socially profitable – should be an industry that does not call for large transfers, but actually says that we can become a profitable industry that can make good contributions to better kindergartens and better schools or what it might be in Norway. That's what has to be the purpose of the industry, and I think that forestry has good opportunities to do. A forest tax system with 100 pst. tax deductions will be such that the State will take on almost the full cost of planting forests for many forest owners. It's incredibly strong. Even with today's order of 60 pst. The tax advantage, which is a huge improvement on the old one, would be those with the highest marginal tax rate of more than 50 pst. have over 70 pst. State grants for planting and the average forest user may have 30-40 pst. State grants under the tax scheme for planting. There is a good layer of sprawl between what each individual has an economic interest in, namely, planting to his forest when it is hogd, and what is the country's important contribution, to make sure that it is profitable for the individual to mowing. And then we no longer want to use open landscape for new mining along the coast. That's where the forest policy is new, and I know that the environmental movement applauds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8811	If we are to secure agriculture, it is important that we take care of the market for Norwegian agricultural products. And unfortunately, Norway is a high-cost country, and that may mean that it can be difficult to export Norwegian agricultural products, even though, of course, it also has to be a target in any case for special products. But that means that we must at least take care of the Norwegian market. Now, the Minister of Agriculture has already pointed out that Swedish trade is not particularly dangerous. In fact, I think such restraints are quite negative for agriculture. He has also had much less focus on price than his predecessors, which I believe will be very unfortunate in the long term, because it will reduce the Norwegian market, and thus the possibility of farmers selling their products. I believe that such a hold in the long term will be very expensive for Norwegian agriculture. Fortunately, we have been known in Norway to have safe and good food. I hope that we can still take care of that stamp, even though we have had some negative comments about groceries that should not have been in the store. On the basis of that, there were two guys who wanted to travel to Sweden. For my part, they just have to travel. If they don't come back, there's no big problem for the Kingdom either. But what I reacted most to was the Minister of Agriculture's suggestion that consumers themselves should make sure that the products they bought were safe and good. Then I can imagine asking if it is such that the Minister of Agriculture believes that it is the consumers who are responsible that the goods in a store are of such quality that one can take them home and eat them with a good conscience, or whether it is such that public authorities have this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8822	I agree with the head of the Business Committee that for Norwegian agriculture, keeping the Norwegian market and a significant share of the Norwegian market is crucial. We have a high cost level in Norway, and we have a high wage level. Norwegian agriculture must primarily produce for a Norwegian market, and it must be at prices that are reasonably cost-effective and that can make a reasonable contribution to each producer’s labour input. It simply means that if one were to have a one-sided focus on the fact that prices of Norwegian food, food supplied from Norwegian agriculture, would fall to, for example. Sweden’s price level — which in theory could have been possible by simply lowering prices — would have led to a furoring of Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, a one-sided focus on price down to the Swedish price level of the large volume products would, in my opinion, be the wrong focus, because if we want Norwegian agriculture, we must also accept a higher price level in Norway. But it shouldn't be unreasonable, then it's kind of politically difficult to live with this. Therefore, we need to focus on the most efficient agriculture in terms of volume. I think it will be important in the future – even if border protection is sustainable – to also build a stronger link between the Norwegian consumer and quality products from Norwegian agriculture. Some of us have on many occasions called this a mental border protection. That's why I think it's important to get into more local products, not just standard national products, but more local products, local labelling schemes and all of this, which we know have worked in other countries where we need to protect our agricultural production. So to the final question. First of all, it is the individual who sells food and makes food, who is responsible for complying with Norwegian rules – hygiene rules and what it should be. There can never be any doubt about this, and it concerns Norwegian shops. Then it's up to the authorities to exercise a very strong oversight that Norwegian rules are being complied with. And then I say that consumers should use their consumer power and say, "What is this?" Does it look like what's on the package? We have to be critical consumers. It's part of a modern society, and I think Norwegian shops should actually tolerate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8831	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8834	The government's 2003 draft government budget is a budget for the renewal and conversion of Norwegian agriculture, which can in turn make the industry better equipped to meet the future. It is a budget for an agricultural policy with fewer regulations and simpler legislation. It stimulates industrial development, increased value creation and the more market-oriented production and establishment of a new food monitoring body, which takes responsibility for all food production. There is a strong emphasis on environmental considerations, including: by investing in bioenergy, which has been addressed in more than one article before today, and in conversion and simplification through reorganisations, transfer of tasks to municipalities, regulatory simplification and the introduction of electronic management. We believe it is necessary to make changes in agricultural policy that can contribute to increased income opportunities for agriculture. An important contribution is to give the individual economic operator a more independent role in the production of food and in the production of common goods. Milk production is very important both to the extent and in the contribution to income opportunities in many districts. Milk producers today have too poor opportunities to make efficient use of their capital. The Government considers it necessary to increase the scope of action of these producers and has therefore proposed a more free movement of milk quotas. The government is also committed to improving the tax rules for agriculture by extending the deduction of income. Enlargement will have an agricultural income before tax of 300 million. kr. Furthermore, the government considers the development of organic farming as a central part of environmental work and as an important contribution to increasing the diversity of the food market. The government attaches great importance to achieving the goal of that 10 pst. of the total agricultural and agricultural area shall be organic by 2010. In 2003, we put together an overall effort on the agricultural agreement of over 100 million. kr. Agriculture has a central role in society as a producer of food, a producer of fibre and other products, and services related to agriculture to care for common good such as the environment, living settlements and scattered settlements. Furthermore, the use structure and long-term management of soil resources are important for both emergency and food security reasons. As part of the Government’s Public Sector Modernisation, Simplification and Efficiency Programme, a number of measures have been launched to increase consumer focus. Measures have been put in place to strengthen local democracy and simplify the instruments of agricultural policy. In short, decisions are taken closer to those who are users. In recent years, the management of several instruments of agricultural policy has been coordinated and linked to the State's Agricultural Administration, while industrial development tasks have been transferred to the State's Food and Rural Development Fund. The establishment of the new food surveillance system, together with the changes introduced by the agricultural agreement, and the proposal for a new concession law, mean that we are in the process of having an agricultural policy that facilitates the necessary renewal and conversion of the agricultural industry. There is more focus on the individual farmer and food producer as a self-employed trader. This is a budget that, by maintaining confidence in the quality of Norwegian food, also provides a framework for increased profitability and better use of the market. It's a budget that provides the basis for increased optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8853	I want to begin by quoting a statement from many of Knut E. Sunde's Enterprise Policy Director: ‘TBL is well pleased with the budgetary agreement. – We have got a full count on our battles.” That's how I could keep going. A good message cannot be repeated too often. The 2003 state budget is a good budget for business. The budget will contribute to strengthening industry’s innovation and competitiveness. It has rarely or never been adopted a budget that is so good for business, and especially for competitive business. The government parties give priority to a fiscal policy that provides the basis for a reduction in wage growth and a reduction in the price of crowns. The budget framework, which we've had a lot of Christmas in the last few months, makes it easier for interest rates to fall in less than that long. Lower interest rates and lower interest rates are Order No. one from all parts of the business. Here we take the goal of delivering. Enterprise policy is a whole where it is the sum of measures that are important to business. We are focusing on lower taxes, increased industrial research, innovation and reinforced efforts for a simpler regulatory framework. I record that the Workers' Party wants to grant more to support schemes via the State agency and tries to sell this as a business policy initiative. But at the same time, as we have heard before, the Workers' Party has proposed in its alternative budget both to reintroduce double taxes on dividends, increase the wealth tax, tighten the option tax and tighten the sharing model. This will affect the access to capital of new projects and will prevent the necessary transition in business. The tax proposals show that the Workers' Party is not serious with its constant concern for the development of industry and industry. As far as the SND is concerned, I would like to point out that the total allocation of the nationwide innovation schemes is increasing, from 89 million. SEK to 103 million. kr, and that the global risk loan framework for SND increases from 100 million. NOK 150 million. kr. A new, nationwide funding mechanism to strengthen business in districts is also known during establishment. The new scheme shall stimulate projects that provide a basis for new creation and innovation. For my part, I look forward to the spring session when we are going to work on the closer design of this and related financial instruments. The furniture and furnishings industry wears down. In the last few years, exports have fallen, mainly because of the strong dollar. In addition, there has been somewhat weaker demand, and we also know that the pine furniture market has changed. The main response to the challenges in the furniture industry is, of course, a tight budget, so that interest rates and interest rates fall. At the same time, there is a need for empowerment and conversion measures, which the industry itself has seriously addressed through the ‘Innovation Furniture’ programme. The programme includes, inter alia: as an objective to contribute to innovation and focus on design-driven innovation, and that participating enterprises have international ambitions in their product development. I am therefore very pleased that the entire Committee welcomes the application to the SND to support the «Innovation Furniture» programme. The budget we are adopting today is a budget for increased value creation in the fisheries sector. Research efforts are increasing. Among other things, the allocation to the Norwegian Research Council is increasing by 15.5 million. kr. This growth will lead to increased basic appropriations for fisheries research, increased efforts on cod and transport-oriented research and development. Now we're not going to take responsibility for evaluating the research from Stortinget's pulpit. This is the responsibility of the Norwegian Research Council and the economic actors. But we have taken the signal that research on cod as a species of farming is important. Therefore, cod farming has been given a special place in the next year's budget. Among other things, it's earmarked at least 15 million. kr for research in cod in 2003. Efforts related to market, environment and fish health are intensified. Ten million will be granted. kr to a SND innovation programme, where cod farming is a priority area. We have provided a budget as requested by the export-oriented industry. This shows that government parties give priority to the competitive economy and that government parties give priority to increased value creation that will in turn ensure well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8888	The main priorities of the Ministry’s budget are to facilitate increased profitability throughout the value chain, a simpler everyday life unless the bureaucracy and detailed management of business operators and enhanced maritime safety. There is broad consensus that there is a high potential for marine value creation. Government policies shall help to facilitate the release of this potential. I am pleased with the broad support given to the draft budget by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It is an important objective to increase profitability at all stages of the fishing industry. Only by doing so can we ensure the recruitment of the fleet and industry in coastal areas, secure settlement and exploit the resources along the feathered edge of the entire Kingdom. In the same way as other export-oriented activities, parts of the fishing and aquaculture industries have had problems during the last year. Since January of this year a number of fishing establishments have had to cease operations. Part of what is happening is, of course, necessary structural changes and adaptations, but it is undoubtedly difficult to operate in the competitive sector in Norway. High interest rates, high salary levels and strong crowns contribute to this. Therefore, a tight budget is particularly important for the development of an industry where 95 pst. exported to 140-150 countries. Through the 2003 draft budget, the Government has made an important contribution to the competitive situation of the marine sector, to the fishing industry. A tight budget provides the basis for a fall in interest rates, reduces the pressure on the exchange rate and facilitates the everyday life of these companies. An important contribution to increasing the profitability of the fishing industry is to adapt the fishing fleet to the resource base and to implement regulations in such a way as to promote the quality of the fish and to provide the industry with a more predictable and even raw material supply. Here is the aggregate quota, the ‘finland model’ and the vessel quota for new measures that have proved useful and successful, and which I intend to develop further. Earlier this year the Ministry has issued a consultation note on the operational and structural arrangements of the coastal fleet, with a consultation deadline of 15 January. The purpose is also to increase the profitability of the year-round fleet. And for the first time, at the introduction of the ‘finland model’ in cod fishing, I have stopped transfers of quotas from the jacks and the smaller vessels to larger boats, which has been a problem throughout the 1990s. We've stopped this for the first time. We're changing to preserve. We have also issued a consultation note on the Structural Fund for capacity-adjustment in the fishing fleet. We're going to get back to that in the revised national budget. This was discussed in Odelstinget yesterday, and I am very pleased that yesterday the Odelstinget gave its full support to my proposal for a food-funded structural fund for the coastal fleet. Effective and effective control of what is taken up by the sea is a vital prerequisite for achieving sustainable resource use. Therefore, the effort to bring to life the illegalities of the fishing industry must continue with unreduced strength in the future. There is good dialogue between fisheries management and industry organisations in the field of ethics and attitudes, as a crucial part of this work. The Budget Agreement with the Progress Party provides for the distribution of 50 new concessions for salmon and trout farming in 2003. These are in addition to the 40 that were distributed in 2002. It is also in line with Government policy with regular allocation rounds for salmon and trout concessions. Prior to the allocation, the allocation round shall be evaluated in the current year and then we shall determine the criteria for the next round. However, smaller concession actors should be given the opportunity to expand their activities in order to improve their operational base. The development of new species in farming, not least cod, has a central place in the strategy for future value creation in the marine sector. The draft budget therefore reinforces the efforts on cod as a commercial breeder. The funding for the breeding programme in Tromsø is increasing from 7 million. NOK 10 million. kr. A minimum of 15 million is earmarked. kr for cod research within the Research Council’s budgetary framework, and a marine innovation programme is established through the SND. The government has clear ambitions to modernise and streamline management to make everyday life easier for businessmen. That's why we're using new technology, we're reorganizing the Fisheries Directorate, we're cleaning up regulations, and we're simplifying regulation and quota systems. A good example of the modernisation work done is the introduction of electronic reporting by operators in the aquaculture industry. While a breeder previously had to submit the same information to several different instances, this can now be done with a few keys to a common database. The data shall then be transmitted electronically to the appropriate authorities. This is a model for the reporting system we want to introduce for many more parts of the management. Let me also remind you that for the first time, the Ministry of Fisheries in this budget has its own item of earmarked coastal culture. It follows the sectoral responsibility of the Ministry for Coastal Culture and Cultural Memory. In this field, it is important to strike the balance between protection and a living and active use of coastal culture. I think we do that in a good way, and I think it is good that, for the first time, with the approval of the Stortinge, we get culture on the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries as an important part of this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8916	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8919	New concessions have recently been awarded for breeding, but there is little time left to get answers as to whether those who have received these concessions can avail themselves of them. In North Norway, there is only one in 22 who has received a concession, who has paid the fee until now. The reason for this situation is simply a lack of capital. When the concession payment scheme was adopted, we had a completely different situation on the coast. The fisheries and aquaculture industry was then in a much better position. We know that this year one fishing company after another has gone over the end, and it looks pretty gloomy along our coast. In the wake of this, it should be in everyone's interest to find solutions, so that the concessions allocated can come into operation and create new activity and faith for businesses and for people along the coast. I have noticed that the SND, the banks and the breeders themselves have asked for some more time to evaluate the economy in this carefully and then to be able to answer whether they can pay this fee. What will the Minister of Fisheries do to help ensure that concessions can be made where they are awarded, so that they can help create positive activities in those areas that so badly need this activity in order to regain faith in the future? Is it realistic to believe that the amounts budgeted for in revenue from these concessions will come in?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8930	There may be reason to recall that when the concessions were cancelled out of the Directorate on 8 July, with the deadline for applying on 25 September 2002, the industry situation in and of itself was exactly the same as it is today. For those who applied for a concession in the summer and who received it now in the autumn, the concession terms were well known, and the economic situation of the industry was well known. Therefore, nothing has happened that has changed the assumptions of the applicants. In the case of the four concessions for the Tree Layer Counties granted at the same time as for Finnmark, all have been paid in. So here's the varying practice around. It is also the ministry's view that we cannot comply with the desire to change the rules of the game along the way. The applicants knew the conditions to search. If we change the conditions along the way, we would at the same time have prevented others from applying if they had known that the conditions were changed along the way. This has to do with not being able to change the rules of the game along the way. If those who have been granted concessions do not want them, they will be allocated to other applicants, because there are more applicants. We have given a reasonable time to comply with the deadline for payment. We then want to award new applicants, and if it turns out that there are no applicants in the county or in those municipalities, we need to assess whether we should re-publish, and whether other municipalities should be given the opportunity. There are specific applicants in Finnmark who are interested, we have been informed, and if they are granted concessions, they will be able to get them if new municipalities are withdrawn. Here it is the county that has pointed out the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8948	First a little bit about researching and cod. The Council of State mentioned this with research and increased research on cod, and he named Tromsø. What surprises me is that the competence in researching and breeding cod is actually not in Tromsø, but he is in More and Romesdal, in the Aquaforsk environment. I think there's a bit of a voteable treatment of Aquaforsk in relation to some other research community in Norway when it comes to farming. I ask the Council of State to talk to their colleague in the Ministry of Agriculture, perhaps also with the Minister of Research, so that they can work together to see if it is not possible to continue this with Aquaforsk and the expertise that lies there, so that one does not tear down this environment. I think that's important. I can't. I have to get back to the sea mammals. Governments do not mention anything about them in their posts, but I am busy that we need to put some strategies into place when it comes to self-anxiousness and strenuousness, and not least the export of qualifying products. It's up to building a new environment, building a new industry, or rehabilitating the industry like that, so that we can house from this resource. We have to delineate the population, and the number of animals has to go down, so that we also keep the other species of fish that are so important to most people, not just in Norway, but actually in the whole world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8956	First a little about competence and research in cod as a future breeder. We have pointed out the Bergen-Tromsø axis from the Ministry and the Government as a bet area where we are to build up top competence. In this way, Tromsø is pointed out as a cod centre, if you can call it that. This does not prevent Aquaforsk’s activity from being both useful and can be continued. So it also has something to do with the organization, as Solholm was in the house. We have made it quite clear to Aquaforsk that they may have to choose whether to sort under the Ministry of Fisheries or the Ministry of Agriculture. That will clearly be the lead for our priorities. But for all intents and purposes, Aquaforsk is not under any pressure, even if we bet on Tromsø in this context. It's more about both – and, not either – or. So it was the management of marine resources, which is a major challenge, and ecosystem management, and keywords in that context are separatism and whaling. Until that's saying that the government has increased the catch of whales in the last year, and we've started exporting whale meat. Both parts are important in the management of marine mammals. We are putting a heavy strain on few exports to Japan. It's been very difficult. We are now assessing whether it is possible to export to the Faroe Islands. Then it is that the government has also increased the quota of coastline and has taken initiatives that have proved to increase the catch. The main problem has not been that the quotas of coastline have been too small, but it has been that we have not been able to take out the quota. It turns out that the initiatives we have taken are producing results. So Solholm also asked me in his main post to consider how we should further put in place measures that both tax the marine mammals and take care of the fishing capacity. It's a job I've been doing in the department. I will come back to it when we have been given a closer look at whether we are going to change the policy, and how the Storting should be involved in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8967	I wonder if I heard errors, or if the Council of State actually said that he interpreted the debate in Odelstinget yesterday so that it is the opinion that the government should come back with structural issues in the revised. Then I think he has interpreted the committee very incorrectly. I only hope that the Council of State can begin by confirming that I heard errors, hopefully. I understand from various reports in the media that government councils have been at a series of meetings in their home state for the last week where statements of various kinds have fallen. I understand it so that the Council of State in the last week, among other things. was at an event called Fisk 2002 in Tromsø. There he was not unexpectedly confronted with the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Progress Party which led to Finko standing without any form of government money for 2003. In response to the criticism, the Council of State should have expressed something such as that 200 million. kr of taxpayers' money now was enough. Then I also see in the evening post that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Committee are willing to find these money, but the Council of State has said no. So why is the Council of State setting up to cut all permissions to Finko? Would it not at least be more responsible to find the money that Finko needs to liquidate, if there is liquidation? Is it supposed to oblige the industry to use the money that has been negotiated with the Government and to be used for other purposes to liquidate Finko? I thought that was completely irresponsible. Let me also say a few words about industry. I read a chronicle in today's Northern Lights as the Council of State has written, the title of which is:‘An industrial policy approach to fisheries is important’. So there wasn't much more. What is its contents? Is it this tight budget, mainly for the public sector, which is an industrial policy approach to fisheries? I am very concerned about the situation in the industry as a whole and for the fisheries industry in particular. I should like the Council of State and the Government to have some action to point to, not just the speck of a tight budget, which is mainly tight for the public sector. Let me, for once, praise the Council of State for the commitment to coastal culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8978	There were a lot of questions here. It's probably not time to respond adequately to everyone in the measured time. With regard to the Structural Fund, we had a debate on it yesterday. As it was prepared there, we will present a case during the spring to deal with operational and structural arrangements. The fees and implementation of the Structural Fund, to which legal support was given yesterday, shall be included in the revised national budget. So it's the case with Finko, if we're going to take that piece first, that for 10-12 years now, the state has contributed support to the Fisheries Competence Centre. We're talking about Norway's second largest export industry, with an export of about 30 billion kroner. Then we don't put down the Fisheries Competence Centre, as it's being produced. If the industry prioritizes this, it is fully possible for it to continue it, because the industry has already invested money. But based on the priorities we had to do in the budget, we have come to the conclusion that it was time to phase out the state share. It can't possibly come as a surprise to the industry, because we started that process already in this year's budget. During the year, together with the industry, we have gone through these things and made them aware that we were about to phase out. But for industry it is as absolute as possible to continue the work. And that's very useful in the work in Finko, but we've assessed it so it's time for the industry to take on its own responsibility. However, the Government will continue to have a significant responsibility for the competence of the fishing industry. As mentioned above, at the 2002 Fisk Conference last week in Tromsø, I made a broad presentation of the measures we have taken, and we will continue them on the competence side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8987	I'm a little surprised at the answers for Finko, because I'm not sure if the government parties have decided completely whether it is that 200 million. kr from the State is enough – and it is, and it was planned and intended so – or whether it is the case, as stated in the comments of the majority, that an attempt is being made here to repair the adverse effects of the fisheries agreement. At least one of the versions has to be decided on. What was the fact of the harvest was that the government kept up the appropriations for Finko, but they kept them up by 5 million. kr. After a budgetary procedure in Stortinget, the entire appropriation is deleted. But in retrospect to present it as if it were a planned process by the Government, I think it's a little slow. It seems that this has drowned in a negotiation process. If we were talking about a guided winding-up, there should have been a completely different time perspective in the process and a completely different dialogue with those affected, than what you have experienced here – it came as the Christmas evening at the heart of many of the people who are concerned about this. I have a question about a matter that is now very much debated in the fishing industry, and it concerns the rise from group 2 to group 1, a process that is now under way in the Ministry of Fisheries. I recognise that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries to carry out that process, but given that so many reactions have occurred – there are so many individual cases associated with this that indicate that there must have been some uncertainty here – I will ask the Council of State how that process will be managed in the future, and when one can expect that it is ready for the allocation of allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e8994	First a little bit about Finko. In the context of the 2003 State Budget, business organisations represented in the Finnish Governing Board were invited to participate in a process aimed at taking over the responsibility of the industry for the work carried out by Finko. I remember that when we phase out the state contribution, that doesn't mean we're going to put down Finko, but that means we're going to get a smaller budget, unless they're going to be able to increase it. When the industry now says that it means that it is closed down, it must mean that the industry does not prioritize this work unless the government was going to spend the taxpayers' money. It's an important work they're doing, but we've assessed it based on an overall assessment so it was more important to use resources in another way. And as I said, the industry was made aware of that. If, as a comment from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party shows, the Norwegian Fisheries Team wants to give priority to this through the fisheries agreement, we will of course be open to discussing it with the industry, because the fisheries agreement is not specifically earmarked for special purposes, it is up to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Norwegian Fisheries Team to give priority to it. But I think it should be thoughtful for some of us if it is that the industry no longer wants to prioritize work in Finko, I think it gives signals that it is well worth noting. When it comes to group 1 from group 2, which was asked, we are in a process that is due to end in January, I expect. Before that time it is not possible for me to explain anything further about the process, except that according to the criteria that were, there were 433 boats that were qualified. We figured it would be approx. 350 which could be quotad, because the vessel must have delivered fish in accordance with certain criteria in three years, and the skipper must be qualified to be on page B. We are now down to a number of 244, and it remains to be seen how many are actually allocated. But it won't happen in a while yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9003	I want to go back a little bit to these breeding concessions. Now I'm of the opinion that there was probably another situation for those who planned and applied for these concessions the time they applied for, otherwise these wouldn't have applied for concession. I don't think they had any kind of hidden agenda when they were looking. I think it's simply the situation that has arisen in retrospect, which has made us there today. It's not about the big changes in the rules here, it's not about what they're asking for, but about flexibility so that those who've got these concessions will put them into practice – for example. deferral of payment or payment over any period of time. I have also recorded that some people are counting on the buttons if they are going to pay now and accept the concession, because there may be changes next year that might make it different. Can we risk that this situation dampens the interest in the industry, and that it is the large-scale capital that will take over such activities in the municipalities even more? And can it make the municipalities less and less interested in such activities? I ask again: is it realistic to get this fee as it is budgeted, and will the situation that has arisen here lead to proposals for legislative changes in future calls for breeding concessions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9010	First, I have to remind you that the Storting, when you decided to award these 40 concessions that are now awarded, decided that the price would be 5 million. kr. You could give a discount in the action zone, which we did by awarding those concessions for a fee of $4 million. kr. So here you've given priority to this part of the country. I also remind you that there was some unrealism in the then government had initially added up, because it was a pricing that far exceeds the amount that was now decided knowingly. So it's said that there's another situation in relation to when they were looking. For those who have followed the development of the industry, I think it will be difficult to find an explanation of the development from this summer, when the application deadline was, and until the allocation now in the harvest. Nothing has happened so dramatically in the industry that you should not have the opportunity to pay for these concessions, which is then the most reasonable, when we see that in other parts of the country it is paid. Then it's also that we can't show flexibility in the sense that we're changing the rules of the game along the way. Then we have to have a new call-out round, so that anyone interested in concessions is given the opportunity to apply on the same terms, because there might be someone else who would have applied if they knew that we were going to change the conditions along the way. What will happen then is that if those who are now granted a concession do not accept them – and that is perfectly legitimate and perfectly right – we will offer the concessions to the other applicants. It was probably in Finnmark 20 applicants on the ten concessions, so if we wanted to, we wouldn't be able to offer a new group for too long. Should it turn out that there is no one interested in those concessions at the moment, there will be full opportunity to return to the ten concessions at a later date. But changing the conditions along the way is not to be recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9017	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9022	Norwegian business is facing major problems. There are concerns in the international market, high domestic costs, high interest rates and strong crowns. It is not a simple act that can reverse this situation quickly, but offensive policies aimed directly at value creation in industry are necessary. I would like to comment on a chapter which finally ended up with a pretty good result, the contribution to employment of seafarers, and the item on cultural resources for forestry, which ended badly. The government's proposal to wind up all the arrangements that would keep Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships is parked, and the current arrangements are now back in place. What must be the long-term objective must be either to remove all tax subsidies or to adapt the subsidies to the level of competition in Europe. Forestry is and has been a major industry and still means too many towns. Strengthening the Value Creation Programme is good and necessary. In the case of timber, it is necessary to make better use of special products such as lumberwood and small-scale sawmilling. But what worries me is that grants for cultural work are completely eliminated. It's short-sighted. Forestry is a long-term perspective of 70-100 years. It is the first time in 100 years that the state does not contribute funds to planting, clearing, land-clearing, twisting and thinning etc. For the small forest property without money in the forest tax account, it is to lose dramatically. In addition, this occurred at a very poor time, because forestry is in a kind of mini-crisis-like state, with poor timber prices, poor outlets for some ranges, fewer for own forests, poor recruitment and poor framework conditions in the form of reduced grant allocations, increased environmental pressures and operational environmental considerations. If the contribution to forest culture falls away, I'm afraid that this will result in neglected forest management, poorer quality of timber at the end of the harvest and less interest in investments at all in forestry. The majority should therefore not have zeroed out the full contribution to forest culture at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9033	It is not just the krone and interest rates that are crucial for the aquaculture industry and thus the coastal jobs. Norway's second largest export industry, the fishing industry, is struggling with poor market access. The salmon agreement between Norway and the EU has thus demonstrated the inadequacy of the EEA Agreement. As a result, processing fish in Norway has lost ground, and by being outside the EU, we export jobs from districts to EU countries on the continent. The EU market quota system of the reprocessing industry is another glaring example of the very difficult working conditions of parts of the industry, and the authorities have to make maximum efforts to improve the export conditions of the shrimp industry. The challenge now is to ensure that no new trade barriers for fish exports to the new EU countries are created. In this picture, it is reassuring that the Government has an offensive attitude to ensure optimal market access to the candidate countries even after they have become part of the EU. For the coast and fisheries there will be an exciting winter and spring when negotiations begin. I think it is reassuring that both the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Fisheries have so clearly stressed that EU enlargement should not lead to worsening market access. If we are to achieve our objectives of sustainable growth in the aquaculture industry, maritime land management must strike a better balance between sustainable use and protection that ensures further growth. Further developments in the salmon farming industry and the commercialisation of new farming species will result in the need for access to new sea areas. It is therefore important to now facilitate greater design of protection with a view to stimulating industry towards positive environmental development and reducing the focus on the protection of large sea areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9042	I'm just taking the floor to ask for that proposal no. 24 is converted into a transmission proposal, in the hope that the Minister of Agriculture, with the emphasis he now puts on the forest tax system, will gradually increase the percentage of depreciation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9048	Mrs Arnstad has now re-examined proposal No. 24 for a transmission proposal, and the wording will be amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9051	That also applies to the vote. Proposal No. 4, on page 70 of the setting, from the Workers' Party and SV, is converted into a transmission proposal. Similarly, position D. III of the Committee, on page 80, is converted into a transmission proposal. In addition, I would like to say that SV wants to vote in favour of proposal No. 6) by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9060	Then, with the help of the secretary, the president will try to sort it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9063	I thought I would try to answer the representative Elvik's question about the conditions of the fishing industry, which was addressed in an earlier exchange of lines. Since she took up so many themes, I was not allowed to answer everything. There is no doubt that the fishing industry is struggling. Especially in the whitefish industry, the challenges are great. It is related to a number of factors: strong krone prices, high interest rates and higher production costs than competitors, combined with increased competition for raw materials. An additional reason is undoubtedly overcapacity, and it is signalled both by financial institutions and by various observers, and not least by the industry itself, that capacity adjustments are needed. It will be primarily the responsibility of the industry. The Rural Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, the Department of Industry and Exports, adopted a Governing Decision earlier this year, where reference is made to the fact that capacity adjustment is the responsibility of industry. It is therefore not desirable to have separate structural arrangements for the land-based industry. There are still businesses that are betting and succeeding. Norway Seafoods has just invested nearly SEK 150 million in a new factory in Hammerfest, JM Nilsen in Nordmela in Andøy runs the fishing industry, and the list could be made longer. Common to these seems to be that they have increased focus on rationalisation, for example. by putting new technologies into service, increasing the focus on competence at all stages and increasing the use of by-products. The government is taking the problems of the fishing industry very seriously. We improve the framework conditions for industry, inter alia: by pursuing a responsible economic policy, and we are working to secure and further develop market access for Norwegian products internationally. Lower taxes and charges, increased innovation, including: by increasing the focus on research, and good communications and infrastructure are, in addition, strong instruments that will improve the situation. It is also the case that we are working in the long term to ensure that WTO and EEA legislation, among others. shall prevent the occasional exposure of the fishing industry, namely allegations of subsidisation and the imposition of a penalty duty on Norwegian exports. It is also important that we achieve an overall value chain, as well as regulation of fishing and a structure of fishing fleets that ensures that the quality of the raw material and equal access of fish to the fishing industry can be improved, ensuring that this improves the conditions for industry. There were answers to questions raised earlier in the debate, stressing that with regard to the fishing industry, which is so export-dependent, it is important that we get this budget through. I am therefore very pleased that the part of the budget relating to the Ministry of Fisheries has been approved by the Committee and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9078	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9094	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 983]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9110	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 983]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9126	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 985]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9134	Then we are ready to vote in case no. 7-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9141	During the debate, 24 proposals were put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 17-21, by Mr Ryan, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 2, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3 and 6, by Olav Akssen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Senter-Party proposal No. 4, by Olav Akselsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 5, by Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 7, by Olav Akselsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 8-10, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party motions Nos. 11-16, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Party of Presidents 22-24, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 24, from the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government come back with proposals to extend the forest tax system to 100 pst. deduction of the forest-tax resources used for forest-cultivation measures.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9179	Proposals Nos. Twenty-two and twenty-three, from the Center Party, are admitted to voting. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to issue a tax deduction scheme for companies investing in broadband. The case is submitted to the Stortinge during 2003.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to exempt new entrants from registration fees in the Brønnøysund Register.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e9200	Proposals Nos. 1, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21, from the Socialist Left Party, is being raised to vote. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e11071	Proposals Nos. 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16, from the Progress Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the reorganisation and consolidation of standardisation activities with a view to establishing a system in which the overall responsibility for all standardisation work is added to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the start of a test project for slaughterhouses so that they can carry out the meat inspection under their own control.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to repeal the Law of 31 May 1974 No. 19 on the concession by acquisition of immovable property [[Concession Act]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for milk not limited to local, county or regional level but made nationally.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted under the Purchase Farming Act.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Act to promote the transposition of agricultural products [[Commercial Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e11114	Proposals Nos. 8, 9 and 10, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a 4-year network development plan in Norway, where the objective is a comprehensive development, where several technological options are assessed against each other, where capacity and general applicability are given significant leads for further deployments and where synergies between different networks have been given a closer assessment than is the case today.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a programme to stimulate increased recruitment in Norwegian agriculture.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain the Norwegian Institute of Forest Research in its current form of association for the current ageing period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e11141	The president was wrong. She voted in favour, but should have voted against. Thus, the number of votes has been changed to 80 against and 18 for the proposals. This does not mean that the proposals are inconceivable. Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of RNB to provide a description of the situation in the Norwegian economy in general and the export-oriented and competitive sector in particular. In addition, the Government is asked to assess and report back to the Stortinget at the latest in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2003 on how best to ensure the predictability and stability of the competitive industrial environment measured against the situation of the central competitor country. ‘... Here the President has come to understand that the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e11160	Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with proposals to set up a new nationwide seed fund of 500 million. crowns.’» Here the President has understood it so that the Socialist Left Party will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e11177	Proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals on how to coordinate and reduce the fees charged to the agricultural and fishery industries in connection with various food security measures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e11193	Proposal No. 4, by the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposers have turned into transmission proposals. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government make use of the channels and possibilities available for European cooperation between European coastal States in order to eliminate tax subsidies in maritime industries.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted. Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e12488	There remains a minority proposal, No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, and the President will come back to that. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e14787	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e16548	The Progress Party has notified subsidized support for the suspension under this framework area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e16551	There is an alternative proposal, and when it is rejected, I see no reason to vote against the proposal currently being put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e16568	Then there's still going to be a vote over D.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e16601	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e16614	With regard to the proposal for a resolution for III, the Committee wanted the Government to be transmitted without a request for substance. The word is then replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the Government return to Stortinget during the spring of 2003 with a stepping-up plan for the production and use of bioenergy, such as: assesses efficient and sustainable solutions for the extraction of biofuels from the forest, a broad focus on the development and dissemination of different technologies for the exploitation of bioenergy, an industrial investment for bioenergy workplaces, and a charging system for the competitiveness of biofuels with other energy.’;» The President proposes that III be transmitted to the Government without a motion of censure – it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-10.ana.ud1899e17382	There is no record.
