ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e28	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representatives of Kjell Engebretsen and Thore A. Nistad submitted applications for leave on 6 and 7 November to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly's visit to Azerbaijan. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Sverre MyrliFor Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e59	Sverre Myrli and Morten Ørsal Johansen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e64	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e69	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e74	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e79	On behalf of representatives Karin S. Woldseth, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Per Sandberg, André Kvakkestad, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on stopping in the plans for digital grounding and reassessment of Norway's digital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e84	The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e88	I would like to make a proposal to ban offensive and harmful sex and contact ads via text TV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e93	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e116	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Svein Ludvigsen Council Ansgar Gabrielsen Council Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions from Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e135	I would like to ask a question to Minister of Industry Ansgar Gabrielsen. The Norwegian industry is struggling a great deal for the time being. Strangeness is an important cause of the problems we face. A number of communities and individuals are uncertain about what future will bring to their jobs and communities. We also see that unemployment is on the way up in a number of areas of the country. Many of us fear that this will be a major problem, both beyond the harvest and not least when winter comes too full. Does the Minister of Industry have any strategy to stop this decline in Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e144	The representative Ryan describes a reality that concerns many communities today, that there have been closures of businesses, and that some companies may be at risk of being laid off, with the result of increased unemployment if new jobs are not managed as a substitute for those who disappear. And then the representative says Ryan that strange things are going on. It is true that there are some strange conditions that apply, but it is definitely also part of an international reality, with a decline in the world economy, how many countries — more or less all the countries it is natural to compare with — are unfortunately in a similar situation. In addition, we have something strange, which affects the competitiveness of Norwegian business considerably, and which is in fact the drop that is now being sought to move into some businesses because competitiveness has become so impaired that you choose to move out, or you postpone or fail to move out and get one of the following closures. There's no doubt what are the heaviest factors in this picture. That's what goes on at the dollar rate, that's what goes on at the interest rate level, that's what goes on at our cost level in general, and not least what goes on at our pay level. But there's no doubt either that if we're going to get rid of these things that are really the cause of the reality we're seeing now, it's the heavy processes and no "quake fixation" that can fix it. In my opinion, the most important thing that politicians can do is to deal with the situation we now have in the Storting, which is related to the budgetary procedure. We know which medicine to take in relation to what affects the interest rate, what affects the rate of interest. We also know what is going on in order for the growth of earnings in Norway to come down to the level of our competitors. The social partners have to do that for spring. [[President clubs]] However, on the initiative of the Prime Minister, on the part of the Government, we are definitely adding to a dialogue with the parties. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e153	The President must remember the art of limitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e156	I am aware that there are some road choices in the State budget, but is there any specific industrial strategy that the Minister of Industry is running? Do you have a plan to ensure and develop new industrial workplaces in Norway? And if you have a plan, will the Stortinge get to take part in the discussion of this plan that the Minister of Industry and the Government might have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e161	As Stortinget so well knows, and as the representative Ryan probably also knows very well, it is the industry itself, based on the framework conditions we politicians always manage to get on our feet, which is the trigger for what we get from innovation, what we get from innovation, and what we get from entrepreneurial activity in this country. It's not like the Storting or the Government are adopting new industrial projects, as they did in the good old days. Now we're assuming that through general framework conditions, by investing massively in research, we're going to make it interesting to start up industry. This can be done in infrastructure development, for example: I was in the Grenland area yesterday and met with the industry in Grenland. They are concerned with general framework conditions, they are concerned with infrastructure, they are concerned with putting into service the possibilities such as: gas will be capable of producing industrially. But specific, state-run industrial projects probably don't seem to be what I think is going to do to solve the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e166	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e169	There has been a rather peculiar debate in the newspapers in recent days between industry and the Minister of Industry about whether we have any particular industrial policy challenges. I am pleased that the Minister of Industry today confirms that the industry is in a difficult situation, and that there is a relationship one has to take seriously. But after the answers given here today, you have to ask yourself, what is the Government's attitude? Should one here lean back and wait and hope for a weakened crown price and put his trust in some general instruments, or is he willing to pursue a targeted industrial policy to help prevent both some of the closures that you see now but also to create new businesses? Then the question is, if one wants to pursue a targeted industrial policy, will one in that case reverse some of the anti-business proposals in the State budget of the year – a sevenfold increase in the cost of compulsory pay on leave, a halving of SND’s funds at a time when one has capital drought and a removal of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e179	At the outset, the representative Arnstad says that there has been an intense debate between the business community and the Minister of Industry over the last few days about what the situation is. I can reassure the representative Arnstad and the rest of the world that this is not the case. But a newspaper that is probably not completely unknown to Arnstad, the nation, has had some headlines that could indicate that it was the situation, which it is not. There are meetings with industry all the way, related to what is the most important thing to change in order for business to get into a different competitive situation than the one in which it is located. today. Then there are some measures that can be politically initiated, which weigh very heavily, and then there are some that really mean very little, no matter what we have to do. The most important thing is that we can reverse the trend we have had, by reducing the competitiveness of Norwegian business on the parameters where politicians have an impact every year since 1995. We have done so first and foremost through the budgetary decisions taken in this Chamber, which have largely resulted in the situation we are now in. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e186	I think the hall can be without the quotes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e189	Then it's good that I stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e194	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e197	I note that the Council of State is very defensive with regard to these challenges related to industrial workplaces. The government is passive and watching industrial workplaces weather. The councils themselves were in the middle of visiting the Grenland area yesterday. Yes, there are thousands of industrial workplaces laid down in the last few years, without the government at all lifting a finger. But I have a specific question attached to what was also the Council of State, that it is important what is now happening in the context of the budgetary procedure here in the house. And when it applies to the permitting law, i.e. the payroll obligation under the permit, the Government proposes to increase the payroll obligation for business from 3 to 20 days. It means a cost of approx. NOK 25 000 to NOK 30 000 per year; the posted worker. Is a cost to business of several hundred million dollars a measure to save jobs in the country? The option is, of course, for workers to be laid off. So my question is concrete: does the Council of State think that this is a good step?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e204	First of all, I would like to comment on what was the starting point, namely that the Government is very defensive, and that, for example, as the representative of Telemark mentioned, in the Grenland area in recent years, that is. has been a marked decline in the number of industrial workplaces throughout the 1990s. That was presented to me yesterday. But this government we now have, which came on its feet a year ago, cannot accept responsibility for the degradation that has occurred in Norwegian industry continuously – in reality since the early 1970s. That just now one has a special challenge where one is at risk of a faster decline in industry than what we have had in the past, there is no doubt either. With regard to the representative's specific questions, I would like to refer to point 1: it is an absolute budgetary question, and point 2: the Minister of Administration is the one who administers it, and the question should therefore be asked to the responsible Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e211	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e214	More and more Norwegian communities claim that Norway has no industrial policy and has not had it for many years. An example of this was when yesterday we received a visit to the Progress Party group from a corner stone factory, a family business over three generations – Mustad & Son – which has a brand that is known all over the world. They have established themselves in seven different countries, and there are only 375 jobs left in Norway. Now they're going to phase out another 100. The Minister of Industry has, of course, said on several occasions that we need to harmonise the conditions of competition between Norway and EU countries. Is it not true that we have a wealth tax that is different and more deadly in Norway than in other countries where they do not have this tax, or an intro at higher wealth levels and at lower rates, and that the rules on the depreciation of balance in Norway are difficult, etc.? Will the Council of State go in to harmonise these conditions, as promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e221	It is a correct indication that Hedstrom makes in relation to what goes on tax and tax. It is an important element for an enterprise to continue to produce in Norway or not to continue. This affects the bottom line and can in many cases give rise to black or red numbers. There is no doubt about what has been the ambition of this government. We have an ambition to lower the tax and tax level by NOK 31 billion during this down payment period. We have already reduced it by 17 billion kroner – and that in itself is historic. We have 14 billion dollars left in relation to this ambition. Nor is there any doubt that the tax on which the representative Hedstrøm points has an impact on Norwegian business and Norwegian ownership in Norwegian business. The Skauge Committee has this on its agenda and is due to make its statement. There is no doubt – at least not at my place – about what should be the outcome of the treatment of this property tax. It should be harmonised with that of current Latin in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e230	The President particularly appreciated the Latin comment. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e235	I also have a question for the Minister of Industry. Daily, there are messages about permits, cancellations, outage and bankruptcy. Signals come from all over the country and apply to all parts of competitive business. Ants Fishing industry and Sunnmørsfisk have gone bankrupt. Lilleby Melting Works saw the hook on the door. Helpers, Hadeland Glassworks and Mustad are flying out. Elkem and Hydro are setting their investment plans on the shelf, just to give a few examples. The Rogaland NHO published in the previous week a report showing that 60 pst. export companies in the State have plans to or may intend to fly out. Over 50 pst. by TBL companies, it is assessed the same. We now have the strongest growth in unemployment in Norway in over ten years. The Minister of Economic Affairs seems to be among the few in the country who are not concerned about the situation. The effort so far and here today has been largely to minimize the situation and try to blame everyone else. My question is, how long does the Minister of Industry intend to be a passive observer of the negative developments we see within our industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e247	It is well-known rhetoric in the political world that past sins are covered by pointing out that those who now had to be responsible should have almost the total responsibility for what has led up to the situation we have today. We just have to admit that in this country – especially in the mid-1990s – we have focused too little on what policy framework conditions to influence in order to have a competitive sector at all. There is no doubt that once one has chosen to increase public budgets, with new reforms and new jobs to meet these needs, there is only one place to take it from. Industry has repeatedly pointed this out. And an analysis of what is happening in these now-flagged holdings, which has gone bankrupt – as the representative Akselsen said – shows that for the fishing industry there are in particular two reasons: that is the raw material prices, and that is our lack of market access for processed fish products in relation to the EU. And Aksensen's instruction to repeal the EEA Agreement will not exactly be a good contribution to facilitate the situation in this way, neither for this industry nor for others. The analyses clearly show that for the other industries, there are two main reasons. One is the enterprises in the industries that have not made the necessary changes – because it is not that you can say that the entire furniture industry has a huge problem. Some have it, and some succeed. The main reason is related to the level of costs experienced in Norway. The fact that interest rates, exchange rates and wage developments are definitely a trigger for these companies to have to fly out. And it's clear that companies that produce... I get extra questions, so I can complete. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e258	My question was whether the Minister of Industry would do anything. Based on the answer I received today, I cannot see that there is a special signal in that area. I may agree that there may have been too little focus on industrial policy in recent years, but at least it has not improved in the last year. I remember that as late as June, when the Stortinget dealt with the revised national budget, the Minister of Industry had the opportunity to influence. The proposals put forward by the Labour Party here at Stortinget would have helped to improve the business situation. So he and the government chose to have a more expansive budget, which is one of the reasons why we're in the situation we're in. In the spring, when the Labour Party makes proposals on, among other things, savings, we were almost ridiculed. It was debatable. It is also the case that as late as Saturday last week, the Minister of Industry was out saying that the problems we are now experiencing in industry are black paint and not in line with reality. I would like to ask: is it such that the Minister of Industry does not see the problems that the Norwegian industry is struggling with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e267	To the extent that the Minister of Industry should be accused of not doing the right things, it is at least not because you do not have the right overview. I would never be able to hide behind that. Every week I visit a number of companies that describe their challenges and their problems. But I think it's pretty important, and I want to say in particular when you're in a situation where you have definite challenges, that you do an analysis of what you can change, and what you're willing to change. At my discretion, it is the pure wrongness, to say it parliamentary, when it is claimed that nothing has been done. This government, through its budget proposals, has had historic reliefs in taxes and taxes, which affect the ability of industry to continue operating in this country. I am fully aware that there are individual elements that were submitted, for example: In the Plaza agreement, which I wish we had the opportunity to reverse. But our ambition for still 14 billion dollars in tax and tax credits gives us just room for prioritising the things that will have the greatest effect in maintaining the competitive sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e274	There will be follow-up questions – Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e277	Unfortunately, it's not just rhetoric, but reality that jobs disappear every day. Taxlet is not the answer. This government has made it a virtue to talk about business neutrality, while industry calls for measures targeted at industry. The Labour Party shall not use any more krona in the budget than the Government has promised. We spent less on the revised national budget than what the Right and Government did, and we were ridiculed. I note that the Minister of Industry has no answer to the situation that the industry is currently facing, with the deflagration and closure of jobs. Then I ask, in the situation we have, that there will be more unemployed, why does the government make it harder for those who are unemployed? In all areas, they cut off measures for the unemployed, with the challenges they face. Do not refer to another government council, the government is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e286	I have never seen the representative of Frøiland as a notable tongue, so this is probably an expression of a lack of willingness to acknowledge the fact that here it is working on a broad front from the Government to just facilitate that we should have a competitive sector in this country. To repeat, as far as the areas in which I work specifically to improve the conditions are concerned, it is definitely after the input from the business community that I perceive that the representative Frøiland is also caring for. I was in Grenland last night and hit all the industrial companies down there. We discussed what are the challenges, what is the analysis and what can we do as politicians. The things that I get to serve as commonable to improve the conditions, are also the things that we're dealing with from a to a. With regard to the grounds for the rules on permitting and their consequences, I would like to refer to the relevant Council of State, which is not my area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e295	Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e298	Earlier in the fall, 411 yard workers at Mjellem & Karlsen in Bergen lost their jobs after the yard was closed of bankruptcy only five weeks after the new owners had taken over. This occurred despite the explicit confirmation by the new owners in connection with the examination of the approval of the acquisition by the Ministry that the traditional shipyard at Mjellem & Karlsen was to continue. In the day's revision last Monday, there was an interview with the Minister of Industry where he says he feels tricked by the new owners of Mjellem & Karlsen. It is also apparent from a note from the Ministry of Economic Affairs that interference with the owners has been discussed with the Public Prosecutor. The conclusion has been that this is impossible because the acquisition law has been repealed. This shows, then, that there is a situation in which the Minister of Industry admits that value creation and jobs in Norway stand without protection from speculators. It puts the debate in the summer on the abolition of the acquisition law in a slightly special light. What kind of policy initiatives does the Council of State plan to put in place again such protection of people's jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e307	Firstly, the representative Lysbakken presents a statement which can at least be interpreted as if the Minister of Industry at Dagsrevyen would say that he felt cheated. That's not right. I heard what the ingress was from the journalist. We in the department have never stated that we feel cheated. It is also evident from the note to which the representative has been given access. What is indisputable is that there is a misunderstanding between what was notified in the acquisition notification on 8 April and what is the situation relatively few weeks later. Now it is no new that acquisition notifications have content other than that which turns out to be relatively short afterwards. There might be good reasons for that, and there might be less good reasons for that. There is a development in enterprises and in the economy. What did you know, and what did you not know? We have no reason to claim that the buyer of Mjellem & Karlsen has been deprived of information in connection with the acquisition notification. I just find that there is another reality around the company five, six, seven weeks later than it was at the time of acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e314	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e317	The peculiar situation for Norwegian business is that the government makes the problems worse. The size has adopted a stepping-up plan for the marketing of Norwegian travel lives. It's not a escalating government offering, it's the opposite. The Stortinget has imposed a research fee on all Norwegian fish. 130 million. kr comes in, provided that the State would follow up with the same amount. The government doesn't. The size has decided to keep the forest culture aid at a high level – it is two and a half years since the decision of the Stortinget. One hundred million. kr has now become zero million. A halving of investments in forestry will be the result. With regard to the national transport plan, we are now 1.2 billion kroner behind the plan. The machines and the people are free to do a job. Not even the NHO is now asking for extra taxes, they are asking for money for the points that I am now mentioning. My question to the Minister of Industry is: why won't the Government even follow up on what the Storting has decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e327	The overall objective of the government in the context of this year's budget was to have a budget that would deserve the term'responsible economic policy' within a sound financial framework. It was supposed to lay the groundwork for a possible fall in interest rates and a decrease in pressure on the crown, which are the main elements of all the industries that Morten Lund is talking about here and has a genuine care for. There is no doubt that in some areas we have not been able to present proposals to the Stortinget that fully comply with what has been the will of the Stortinge. Now, the Storting has an excellent opportunity to make changes to these things, but it's clear that if you agree on an external framework, you can get in the situation that you can't fit all the wishes, decisions, assumptions that are at the forefront. We have also indicated that in this year's budget. In particular, with regard to the area for which I am responsible in the field of travel life, I would just like to point out that the tax reductions that the industry has received are probably the twenty-fold reduction in marketing subsidies to the same industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e336	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e339	I want to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. I have recently seen in the media that there should be a so-called plurality in Stortinget to postpone the distribution of the 40 concessions that are contained in the Sem statement. In my opinion, there has been no formal decision in Stortinget on that, and I have allowed myself to send a letter to the Council of State, where I point out that the Progress Party is not part of this so-called "multiple" that wants to postpone these allocations. My question will then be whether the Council of State has changed a little perception and view of this when he has now been told that the Progress Party is not part of this plurality, and that it can actually be involved and push on so that the Government can distribute the 40 concessions if they want, based on a plurality with the Progress Party here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e346	I wanted to award 40 new concessions, and had added up to do it in the autumn. When the government in our store submitted the report of salmon fjords, we also announced the announcement of 40 salmon concessions, and I indicated that it was natural that we had a parallelity in the treatment of the two cases. This was further reinforced by the public debate, which included: The Labour Party's leader in the Energy and Environment Committee made it quite clear that they found it unacceptable that I should grant concessions in areas to be treated in Stortinget. When I was then informed by the committee leader that the salmon fjords would not be treated before the beginning of the new year, I found it necessary to prevent the advance of Storting’s treatment – and thus had to stop the allocation of salmon concessions. It is true that I have received a clarifying letter from the Progress Party, and through what is now being said here, I find and understand that there is a majority in the Storting that does not intend to protect areas in which it may be relevant to award the 40 concessions. This means that the majority of the Storting is on a line, as I interpret it, which makes it possible to award 40 concessions in the autumn. So with that clarification, if it's right, the matter arises in a completely different way, and so there's a basis for awarding the concessions in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e353	That answer was so clear that no clarification is necessary. I can confirm that the Progress Party is fully behind what I wrote in my letter to the Council of State, and therefore there should be a basis for the Council of State to set in motion and distribute the 40 concessions in the fall. I'm very happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e360	The President assumes that this can't get any clearer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e363	It can hardly be. However, it is clear that there may be others here, namely the Great Britain minority, who have a different view, but I'm complying with the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e368	There will be follow-up questions – Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e371	I must say I am very surprised at the answer given by the Council of State Ludvigsen. It is on the basis of the fact that a clear majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has been confronted with a totally hopeless situation by the Government, even by the fact that the Government first signals that they are to distribute salmon concessions, which the Workers' Party is not opposed to, and subsequently comes up with a case of salmon fjords, where there are proposals to protect some fjords, to which the Stortinget has not been given the opportunity to decide. It is therefore expressed by a clear majority that this must be done in the right order, namely that the Grand Duchy must first decide on what is to be protected or not protected, before the Government grants salmon concessions. It has been known for a long time in the State Council of Ludvigsen, and I am now very surprised that he still says that he will grant concessions, despite the fact that he has received signals from his own party traps here in this house that he has to wait to assign them to the Stortinget have been told clearly from which areas are actually to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e376	I note that a majority in the Grand Duchy, consisting of the Advance Party and the government parties, is prepared to accept that I grant concessions. I record that the Workers' Party is still of a different opinion. The consequence will be that, for example, the ten concessions that we have planned to grant in East Finland could not be awarded if that line were to be routed to protect it. I believe that the majority has clarified through the process that has now been, that one does not intend to protect areas on which it may be appropriate to allocate the 40 concessions, and I take note of the majority's view in the further processing of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e381	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e385	I'm going to ask a question to the Minister of State. The centre party is deeply and sincerely concerned with the messages that are now coming from parents, from adding to school and care, from local people. A forebur cut in relation to a good public school and a more dignified care. Does the Minister of the Council share our concerns, or will she continue with her apologies that competition and privatisation are the solution, even though she knows that for a lot of smaller municipalities there is no market ready to take over? Will she continue with her increase to private schools and thus undermine the public school? Is she happy that she is now joining in laying the foundations of a different society in Norway than the equivalent society that we have had so far, based on important common values?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e392	Our ability to have an equivalent society depends primarily on our being able to deliver good public services. But if we are to provide good public services, we must take care of that the first half hour of this questioning has been about, namely the conditions of business. We have put forward a budget that is primarily tailored to the possibilities of continuing to have a viable business. Nor do those who fail to see the relationship between the public demand for labour as a factor in the formation of wages and the competition problems associated with the industry in Norway see how to have a growth force in the future that ensures that we have private and competitive jobs in Norway. It has therefore been necessary to have a tight budget. But within the tight budget, we have prioritised the local government sector by saying that the underlying expenditure growth in the budget is 0.5 pst, while the growth in the local government sector is 1.25 pst. It shows that the municipal sector is a priority at the expense of other parts of the public sector. But then it is absolutely right that in many municipalities there is a difficult economic situation. There are several reasons why this situation is difficult. One of the main reasons is that expenditure increases more than income despite this growth, and then in Norway we have to start going to the root of the problems: how do we stop spending growth? And the expenditure growth does not stop us just by increasing revenue, we have to take the steps that a tight budget does, and that makes sure that we get into a more stable development of expenditure growth. If we get a lower interest rate, that means 800 million. kr per. percentage points it decreases to the local government sector. We have to include these relationships. There are many things that happen in some municipalities that we would like it not to be necessary to do today, but we need to take into account the balance between the public and private sectors. At the moment, we're giving priority to the local government sector, but we can't solve all of these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e403	There is no doubt that important measures are needed to ensure a variety of jobs. However, I can also say – and I am very sorry – that there is no commitment by the municipal minister to the unrest that many parents and members of the community are now aware of when it comes to the welfare services for which the municipalities have now been responsible. Experiences with the postponement of care services – which is a solution from the municipal minister – are mixed in Denmark and Sweden. Sjukeheimer in Helsingborg and Stockholm are now returning to municipal operations. International companies are currently operating in several cities in Norway with deficits as a conscious strategy. Why not see that labour costs are the main weight of costs also in Norwegian municipalities, and support a stepping-up plan to secure a better economy and to ensure security for most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e410	I believe that competition is an unsurpassed tool to identify the best operating modes. By outsourcing you will see where there is slack in an organisation and where there are opportunities to operate better. Sometimes, then, the public sector itself will be able to operate better and cheaper than the private sector in relation to some of these services. It's competition that we from the Government have been most concerned about, because it's a process that's getting slow in the organization. The interesting thing about this is that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa does not want to have competition by forbidding it, or making it economically unprofitable by not wanting a neutral VAT system in relation to the competitive outsourcing. This does not mean that municipal self-government should not be allowed to test whether it is more profitable to compete or not, but it is necessary to create a 24 pst barrier. higher VAT on part of these services. The outsourcing of competition is not a main response. The main response is to launch many different conversion processes in the municipal sector. We're not hiding one thing: there's not enough money in the short term to solve all the welfare problems. And that's what the government has said from the moment we put forward the community economics plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e417	There will be follow-up questions – Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e420	In the election campaign, the Right promised to create a better school. Although Erna Solberg thinks so, I find it hard to believe that the electoral campaign strategies in Højre's House cannot understand that it is difficult to create the best school in the world when you want to cut the municipal economy at the same time. Quality costs, and now it's cut in school quality around the country because of the bad economy. The Council of State has said in the past that it is a tight budget next year. We know that the municipalities are operating with a deficit of approx. $5 billion this year. It is added, they say to us in Stortinget and in the context of the budgetary procedure, that it is going to be as tight or even tighter next year. Then my question is: does the Council of State plan to have an equally bad local economy in the years to come, or has she thought that this should be a one-off case, and that it will be much better when she only gets more money for the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e429	There is a need for two things to balance better with the tasks and expenditure of municipalities. One is that the money we spend in the municipal sector is not just channelled into new welfare reforms. There is NOK 2.6 billion in increased appropriations for the local government sector this year. If the SEK 2.6 billion had come into free income, it would have been a significantly easier situation than when the majority of the amount, NOK 2.1 billion, is linked to tied funds and earmarked funds. I therefore believe that if we are to balance the community sector, we have a common job to do in Norway – we have a common job in this house and in the Government: when we have a competitive business situation that is the way it is today, we must also take on board that we must all give priority to some of the wishes we have had in our programmes and in our election campaigns, and ensure that the municipalities can swallow away the welfare reforms at a pace that does not go beyond the things that at any time do not have the highest priority. Therefore, there is an equally great challenge for Heikki Holmås to be involved in not binding up all the funds that go to the municipal sector, as SV has done by prioritizing e.g. the nursery sector as high as it has done this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e436	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e439	The party to the progress made a settlement with the government parties on the municipal proposition for the following year. In that agreement, we gave the government an opportunity to increase the transfers to the municipalities – from NOK 4.5 billion to NOK 5 billion, if we include the tax increase. When the budget comes, it turns out that the government hasn't taken advantage of the opportunities that lie there, and there are different arguments from the government and government parties here in the house about what's behind it. Now we have received a letter from the finance minister saying that the tax estimate will decrease, and therefore, in a way, it is not backed into the local economy for next year. Then, too, the Council of State immediately follows up as the Christian People's Party here on the house – at Ivar Østberg – has said, that it is the nursery arrangement that is the reason why the Government is not able to follow up the intentions that were in the conciliation, in the municipal proposition. And then I would like to ask the Council of State: what really is the reason why the Government has not taken advantage of the possibility of further increasing transfers to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e446	The government parties cooperated with the Progress Party on the municipal economy for next year, where the framework for the growth of the municipal economy was DKK 2–2.5 billion in the 2003 budget. So it's going to be $2.6 billion, which is 100 million. kr more than what was put in that frame. Within the framework, there is a shift between money, between earmarked funds and free resources, and this is due to the fact that, in parallel with the cooperation and the decision made between the Right and the Advance Party, the Progress Party also entered into a binding agreement with other parties on the Storting that increased our need to fill up with earmarked funds. I think we've followed up on the deal we've had. In the case of exceptional tax revenue, the cooperation agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party provides for their retention in 2002 and 2003. What now turns out is that the extra billion that was on the basis of an estimate – which it was not certain would come – has not arrived. In competitive business and elsewhere, tax revenue is currently falling generally in Norway, and there is no money to be transferred. [[The President clubs.]] And then I do not think that the arguments of the Progress Party that this should have been introduced in 2003 hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e453	The President is asking for time to be respected. Reidar Sandal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e459	With reference to the answers just given by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I would like to point out that the Regional Council of the Hamar region expresses its deep regret at the Government's proposal to the State budget for the following year: ‘All municipalities in the Hamar region must now cut down on the provision of services to children, the elderly and caregivers. The result is poorer quality of life for a large part of the population. The Regional Council regrets the cuts to be made in 2003 to the population. These cuts are the policy and wish of the State, not of the municipal politicians.' I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: Do such statements as are referred to here, the impression of the Council of State Solberg? Does the Council of State mean that the municipal politicians in Hedmark are okay with what is everyday life in their municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e471	Yes, it gives me the impression every time I meet municipalities that are both in a difficult economic situation and also have to make changes, conversions, and in some places also cutting down on a public service offer. Some municipalities have to have greater cuts than others, because we have a broad majority of the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party, who have helped to transform the income system into a downward trend towards 2006, which means that although there is growth in the local economy, there are many municipalities that experience that because of the changes in the income system, they do not have real growth in individual municipalities. It is primarily because of the conversion of the income system. But there are other things that also impress me. It makes sense to me to be at one-sided industrial sites or in small places in North Norway where the fishing industry stops because our competitiveness has deteriorated, and because we are unable to ensure that the pay conditions are such that the balance of the Norwegian economy is correct. And it is primarily a result of over-use of money in the public sector, excessive demand for labour in the public sector. We are thus contributing to the strengthening of business conversion needs and to the loss of more jobs. We can't talk about local economy without also looking at the base of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e478	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e481	State councils are absolutely right that it is not possible to look at the local economy without also looking at the areas represented by the other two state councils that are here today. And in all these three areas, we're now experiencing problems. Workplaces disappear both within traditional industries and within the fishing industry, without any of the two government councils appearing to be significant in this area. In this context, municipalities need to reduce the provision of services to a significant extent, and the contribution of the municipal minister is to repeat and repeat the fact that competitive outsourcing is necessary to meet this situation. The main problem of government policy is to facilitate strong growth in private consumption at the expense of targeted measures both against business and against the community sector, against service provision. But my question to the municipal minister is: when the municipal minister keeps repeating that the outsourcing of competition is the way to go, what kind of experience does the municipal minister use as a background for his allegations? Can she prove that there are lasting cost reductions and quality increases in competitive outsourcing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e490	Let me start by saying that I do not understand that my colleagues do not respond. I see that there are some people in Stortinget who are asking for selective instruments because they do not want to go to the root of the problems in the Norwegian economy at the moment, namely the large public consumption and the demand for labour. And I understand why it's hard to answer that, because then you answer that it's not the opposition parties' policies that are good in the long run neither for the local government sector nor for competitive business. It is, in fact, a policy that also keeps public expenditure back. So to the issue of competitive outsourcing. We have simple examples that competitive outsourcing is very good, that better benefits have been gained from outsourcing services. I have a lot of examples of individual areas where it's like this. But it's clear that once or twice, once you've made a competitive outing, there won't be much to pick up in the organization. Then, over time, you won't pick up anything new every time you don't have a lot of technology in the field of outsourcing. Therefore, we must go selectively into each sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e497	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e500	The Norwegian people are sitting and watching that we have the oral questionnaire in Stortinget. What does the Minister of State have to say to the Norwegian people and to those operating the home care system, when they have been told to cut home care because of the municipal economy? They have been told by their municipality that they must cut so and so much. Is it intended that people should drown in their own dirt and that home help should not be washed and provided with the necessary services because they are being cut off the subsidies to the municipalities of the Ministry of Local Affairs? Now we know that the municipalities are charged with tasks from the state, and we know that the state negotiates wage agreements – the municipalities have to pay – but that does not include money. What does the Minister of State say about home help that needs to cut off the washing of those in the district?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e507	When I reply to the oral question procedure in Stortinget, I reply to representatives of big business. I do not believe that the oral question procedure is intended to provide an answer to the TV broadcasts. I understand that some big business representatives think it's the forum, but a government council should respect the Storting and answer the Storting. I would like to stress that I do not think there are any places in Norwegian municipalities where the situation that the representative Bastesen is describing is real. It is fully possible to find other areas — with less consequences — in which changes can be made in the municipal sector. The local government sector is still well funded in Norway, but a longer period of stronger conversion is required to produce better conversion effects than the pure cuts. Then it is a mistake that the representative Bastesen now says, that the state negotiates the payroll and does not pay for it. The state negotiates one pay settlement – I have always thought that it should be done by the local government sector itself – and that is the teacher's settlement. The state has paid for the teacher's settlement, at the latest with NOK 1.7 billion more to cover the extraordinary payments to the State Pension Fund as a result of the teacher's negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e516	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e519	To the Minister for Local Affairs: One of the major societal challenges facing us is that many young people have significant problems coping with the high cost of living. The main measure, both for young people and for economically disadvantaged people, is to avoid further pressures on housing prices. Then we have to increase the housing structure. The main instrument of government to achieve this is reasonable loans from the House Bank. The government cut the mortgages by NOK 2 billion compared to the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government. This meant that the House Bank went almost empty this summer. The following year will have to be collected. Increased borrowing needs are assumed for kindergartens. Consequently, the government’s draft budget will not improve the situation on the housing market. The problems for young people will be greater. How can the Council of State defend young families that the Government is passive in a situation where young people are unable to cope with the cost of living?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e528	The main factor for both housing construction in Norway and housing expenditure for young people is not the Husbanken loan framework, but the level of interest rates in Norway. 90 pst. by all housing purchases in this country are not financed by the House Bank but by private banks. I agree that the loan framework may have an impact on the development, but I think the analysis is wrong if you think that's what's most important, in the current situation, in terms of young people's housing costs. First, it is that most young people who establish themselves do not establish themselves by building owner-occupied dwellings or buying newly built dwellings. Most of them do so by buying a dwelling on the second-hand market. Therefore, the interest rate level is the most important. I think it's important to stress it, because if the interest rate goes up, it'll be a brake on further development both privately funded and in a house-banked direction. If the interest rate rises, it will also lead to a fall in the demand for housing, because the demand for housing depends on people being able to afford to buy that dwelling. Now the situation is that housing prices currently appear to be flat because of uncertainty in the Norwegian economy and because the situation otherwise shows the sensitivity of this housing market, not only in terms of new construction. What we have done in relation to young people in this budget is that we are doing, among other things. has extended the amortisation period for residential loans to rental dwellings from 30 to 50 years. It will lower the cost for those who want to build rentals, and we can realize more projects for lower rents by not just asking for subsidies to build them, but by getting a better loan arrangement. In addition, even though the kindergarten frame is slightly above NOK 1 billion, we have also spent some of this on kindergartens in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e542	I am absolutely sure that the Council of State is aware that the price of used dwellings also depends on new construction. The Labour Party has proposed comprehensive housing measures for young people. In addition to increasing new building loans, we will increase housing support, and we will invest heavily in the construction of cheap youth rental homes. Then it is not enough to extend the repayment period for the loans, as the Council of State says. What does the Government do? Well, the government is tightening up on who is going to get housing grants, among other things. to rental properties. Next year, grants are likely to go mainly to refugees and homeless people. The working party wants a system of 30 pst. State grants to build rental dwellings, to build more rental homes to make it easier for young people. The government's arrangements lead to a general weakening of the housing structure itself, but they also talk about a weakening of the construction of special rental homes for young people. Then it's nonsense to say that you want to target the housing measures for young people. They are the ones most affected by the government's paralysis of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e551	The President would point out that the word 'customs' is not one of the very most parliamentary words in the vocabulary!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e554	That may be right, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e559	Let me start by correcting the errors in the introduction that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen came with. He said there would only be money for the homeless and refugees within the housing allowance. A large part of the money within the housing allowance goes to the so-called housing social action programmes, which are too difficult, but not homeless, which need a better housing under the direction of the municipalities. About half of the housing allowance last year actually went to that group. It means that disadvantaged people who may have other things, but who are not part of the pure homeless projects, actually get a lot of this. It is an important part of ensuring that disabled persons and persons with other additional problems have a more stable and secure housing, although it may be today to move them from the rental market to a permanent dwelling that they own. In fact, I believe that the Workers' Party should praise the Government. We have done in this budget the greatest increase in housing aid from one year to another that has ever been proposed. The working party claimed last year that they increased the housing stock. The reality when we went through it was that it was a real cut for all residents except those who lived in the four largest cities. [[President clubs]] It's almost
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e566	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e569	I have a question for the Minister of State. Yesterday we could read that UDI Director Trygve Nordby wants to remove all legal aid in connection with asylum applications that are obviously groundless. This is often about people who know for themselves that they will not be allowed to stay, but who, due to the length of the procedure, can benefit from Norwegian tax credits for a long time before they are expelled from the country. We also saw yesterday that Sweden is now concluding an agreement with Russia, which includes, among other things, cooperation to identify applicants for asylum. Cooperation aims to aim to quickly return persons who do not provide information about their own identity. At the same time, Sweden negotiates with Russia the possibility that those who have been punished in Sweden may be punishable in Russia – in order to deter them in such a way. My question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State take the initiative to give Norway a similar agreement with Eastern European countries, and will the Council of State follow up Nordby's play on legal aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e580	So the play in the Newspaper has been related to a letter sent to us after the department asked for new input into how we could cut down the asylum procedure and get it simpler and more streamlined. We're working with the UDI to find out where in the process we can cut down on time to get faster treatment. We have said a long time ago that we now want a review of the law. We have done so through the fact that, among other things, has announced a research assignment, which is now starting, where you go through what you actually get from legal services for the money the state pays. Once we have received that report, we will conclude whether we are going to make major substantive changes to the entire legal system, or whether we are going to maintain it as today. Many countries have very different legal systems in asylum matters. Someone doesn't have legal aid for anyone in the first place, and others have it the same way we do. That's why it's a basis for us to go through the legal system, not only when it comes to obviously groundless asylum applications, but also when it comes to our whole process to see if we're using resources the right way. So in that way we're going to follow it up. We have long said that we want more return agreements. I think it's interesting what the Swedes are now negotiating with Russia, because it's an extension to the level of ambition we've had for the return agreement. We have per cent. Today, there were no major problems in sending people back to Russia when they were rejected as groundless applicants. Russia has been among the countries where we have had a relatively painless process, but we are going to follow up on what Sweden is doing in this area. As regards the question of the return of criminals for settlement, there is no question under the Ministry of Local Affairs, but there is a question under the Ministry of Justice. I do not want to oblige the Ministry of Justice to give an answer here until they have also assessed the consequences of the Swedish agreements. But we want to have a return agreement with several countries to get a faster broadcast and an easier way to get rid of those who don't have reason to be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e591	I thank you for your answer. But I have to ask: shall we not now stop drawing up reports and action plans, shall we not act soon? Norway will again make a new record in relation to asylum immigration this year. We're probably passing 16 000. This will, of course, have major economic consequences – both in the short and long term. It is a paradox that the Government is consistently operating with a tight budget compared to granting in other areas, while in the field of asylum it is free. I note that next year the government is budgeting for 16 000, while this year they have budgeted 12 000. I assume that they will come up with an extra bill at the end of December of this year, also equivalent to the increase in asylum immigration this year. What I would like to challenge the Council of States is what the Progress Party is constantly being met with in view of the fact that we are promoting a whole range of proposals to combat asylum immigration. There are international laws, international laws, which we have ratified, and now I want to ask the Council of State: what laws, whether they are the Refugee Convention, the Human Rights Convention or other international laws, are those that prevent Norway from applying its own law in relation to the foreign field?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e598	First of all, it's okay that we're not just going to have reports. But it is clear that we are going to restrict the right to have a lawyer or the right to complain within the area of asylum, we need to have legislative changes that must go through this house. There are, in fact, certain requirements for the basic work that you have before promoting a legislative amendment to the Stortinget, because you will then be deprived of some rights that have been worked out today or that the Stortinget has previously said that individuals should have. The two most important conventions in question are the European Convention on Human Rights, which requires the return of people — the difficult question of torture, inhuman treatment — and the second is the Convention on Refugees, which requires each person to have the right to hear his case. It's in relation to the design of this and how those rights should be, we have an ongoing dialogue with the refugee commissioner to see if we can have an easier way of dealing with these issues than what we have today. Especially exciting is it that the Dutch system is, a system that takes 48 hours, and we're going to go through it carefully to see if we can establish the same thing in Norway. But it will probably also require legislative changes in relation to the laws we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e603	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e609	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Question 4, from the representative Trond Giske to the Minister for Culture and the Church, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Gunn Karin Gjul to the Minister of Justice, will be addressed to the representative Anne Helen Rui. Question 13, from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 14 and 15 from the representatives of Inge Ryan and Signe Eye respectively to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has left. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, this question is moved and answered in response to question 21, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 24, from the representative of Bjørgulf Froyn to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade who will direct him. Questions 28 and 29, from the representatives Sylvia Brustad and Kjetil Bjørklund respectively to the Minister for the Environment, are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State in response to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e635	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e638	I have the following questions for the Prime Minister, who is answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Norway is facing major challenges in the north. Recently, it has been reported that the United States and Russia have concluded an oil agreement involving oil transport along the Norwegian coast, and it has been previously reported that Russia will import nuclear waste. This requires that we have a good emergency response device, and as a preventative measure, we need to extend the territorial limit. How is the task of moving the territorial borders to 12 nautical miles, and when can we expect the Government to propose such an extension?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e647	Enlargement of the territorial sea will improve the ability to control shipping, preserve the maritime environment and prevent pollution and combat international drug and human trafficking. Consequently, the Government has given priority to the assessment of the issue of the extension of the territorial sea to 12 nautical miles. On 11 October this year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent out a draft legislative proposal to extend the territorial sea of Norway from four to 12 nautical miles and to establish an adjoining zone of 12 nautical miles outside the territorial sea. The hearing period is set at 22nd of this month. Of course, there will be a need to assess the comments received, and the time needed to do so in a reassuring way will, of course, depend on the content of the comments. I cannot therefore give any precise dates for the further steps in this process, but I can assure you that the Government has this matter high on the priority list. If there are no unforeseen questions, I take for my part that the matter will be sent to Stortinget in the next two to three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e656	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is reassuring that work is under way. We have been told that the territorial boundary would be extended to 12 nautical miles. It is a fact that we cannot go under the chair that increased oil transport along the Norwegian coast and southwards will pose a risk of contamination. In this respect, it is of little help that the Minister of the Environment adopts protective plans, that area by area should be protected. If an oil tank of 200,000–300,000 tonnes falls off the Norwegian coast or off the archipelago, it will result in an asphalted coast, with soft asphalt. So it's high time that this is given priority, and that we get the sailor for the tankers that travel off the coast. But we also have to make sure that we innaskjers have ropeboats that can move out in the appropriate cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e663	I have nothing else to add but that I think the representative gives an excellent reason for the proposal that the Government is going to make to the Storting within a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e671	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘It has proved difficult for the Security Council to reach agreement on a new Iraq resolution. In the past, the United States has made it clear that they believe the Security Council has accepted through previous resolutions for an armed attack on Iraq, in order to prevent Iraq from acquiring large stocks of weapons of mass destruction. Does Norway consider that previous resolutions against Iraq give a mandate for such an attack?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e680	Through a wide range of resolutions, the UN has made clear and binding demands on Iraq to eliminate weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. The requirements are and will be ignored by the Iraqi regime. The international community has therefore for many years had to live with uncertainty about Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. On the part of the Government, it is imperative to work towards achieving the objective of the abolition of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems without the use of military power. In order to achieve this, it has been necessary, in our view, to clarify the requirements for Iraq in a new resolution, and that there is no doubt that non-compliance could have serious consequences for the country. Another key point of the Government is that any reaction to Iraq must be enshrined in international law. That is precisely why we have put so much emphasis on the fact that this matter belongs to the UN Security Council, where it is now being dealt with. We also attach great importance to clarifying the requirements for Iraq in a new Security Council Decision, so that the weapons inspectors can now carry out the mission they have received from the UN. The head of the arms inspectors, Hans Blix, also stresses that UNMOVIC’s mandate is clear before the inspectors resume their activities. At the same time, there is no doubt that Iraq is still subject to the armistice conditions of the S-res. 687 from 1991. This resolution also refers to previous resolutions, including S-res. 678 from 1990, which authorises the use of power to restore peace and security in the area. S-res. 687 crushes the essential requirements for the restoration of peace and security and sets out weapons inspection as the central instrument. If the Security Council finds that Iraq is in significant breach of these arms rest conditions, an additional resolution is not required in isolation. But I still believe that this is clearly desirable. This is not least important in order to make the regime in Baghdad understand that the failure to comply with decisions of the Security Council this time could have the most serious consequences. The fact that the matter is now under consideration in the Security Council shows that this recognition is shared by the members of the Council. The draft resolution now under discussion in the United Nations states that the Security Council determines that Iraq is substantially in breach of its armaments conditions, but that, despite this, the country should be given a last opportunity to fulfil its disarmament obligations. With this in mind, we are in favour of a strengthened inspection regime. The Security Council shall re-examine the matter if Iraq again fails to comply with its cooperation obligations. The reporting of UNMOVIC and the IAEA, which are at the heart of the draft resolution which is now under discussion in the Security Council, will form a crucial part of the work of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e695	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. The situation is now slightly different than when the question was formulated and sent to the Storting, because it now looks as if it is clear that a resolution is being adopted, that two resolutions are being taken. I have a follow-up question about the role of Norway in the process that is now being completed. In international media, and in Norwegian media as well, Norway’s role is characterised as loyal supporters of the United States. There is no doubt about who has been pressured to get a resolution that opens up war and does not go into a peace process. I wonder what are the Foreign Minister's comments on the many international headlines that we have seen, where Norway and the United States are put in the same boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e706	As Kristin Halvorsen knows, it is said so much strange about Norwegian attitudes in many questions. I would like to maintain that the positions Norway is going to take in the Security Council will be closely consistent with what I have cleared in the Storting through the extensive debate that has been and that practically all parties, with the exception of SV, have given broad support to – and that is a position that stands solid on good Norwegian grounds. Kristin Halvorsen is right in that the situation is somewhat different from when the question was asked, but in more than the sense that Kristin Halvorsen himself now referred to. For my part, I am quite optimistic about reaching a Security Council decision now with a broad agreement at the back, and which is well in line with what I have explained in relation to the Storting. The press comments that are otherwise given, I simply do not need to comment further, just note that we take a position as we have explained to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e715	A short question of follow-up that is entirely specific to the content of a possible resolution. I am aware that the Foreign Minister cannot take that point by point, but it is an important point of view, which is about how much time the weapons inspectors need to have in order to do a real job. If you're going to threaten war in this area, you know that it's terribly hot in summer time – it could be well over 50o in the shade – and so part of the debate goes on to push forward a short deadline for the weapons inspectors to do a job in order to have the opportunity to carry out military actions before summer. But then the weapons inspectors will probably not be able to do a proper investigation, and I want to know what is Norway's position on it and, if necessary, other measures that could prevent a military action from actually being carried out and go to war against Iraq. It will be absolutely essential to be able to walk realistically along the path of weapons inspectors and prevent weapons of mass destruction by enabling the inspectors to do an effective job as they have done in the past. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e720	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e723	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e728	I have to apologize for falling off at the end, so it is possible that I would respond to other things than what Kristin Halvorsen was after.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e733	It was very clear in my head.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e740	I don't doubt that for a moment, it's probably my fault that it's not as clear in my head as Kristin Halvorsen asked. Of course, with regard to the conduct of inspections themselves, we are concerned that they should be carried out realistically, so that we have a real chance of carrying out the mission. But I don't imagine there's going to be any point of conflict, so I'm a little surprised that Kristin Halvorsen is now raising this question. I honestly believe that this case shows that the Security Council is now working realistically together for a position. I hope that will be the result, and I don't think I'm that terrible far from being able to give more than a hope at this point. But of course it remains to be seen, the Security Council has not yet entered the last meetings, so it is based on what we now know and what we now expect will come out. But I think it has to be expected that the challenge of Saddam Hussein will now be taken seriously, and the Security Council will respond to that challenge by once again making clear demands to him, and thus the ball lies in this issue in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e751	The President will clarify that from the President's office you are limited to sticking to what comes out of people's heads. What's going on inside is the private secret of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e757	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In the shadow of the so-called war on terrorism, we see several examples of violations of human rights worldwide. Russia's war crimes against Chechnya are such an example. The hostage action in Moscow shows that terror is spreading rather than giving way, despite much activity in the war on terror. The Chechens want negotiations with Russia through their negotiating leader. What initiative does the Government take to bring about negotiations between Russia and the elected Chechen President, Aslan Maskhadov?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e766	From the Norwegian side, we have strongly condemned hostage-taking in Moscow. There is no case that justifies such actions, which appear to be terrorism of the most serious kind. We must also remember that hostage-taking in Russia is not an unknown tool for Chechen separatists. In June 1995, more than 1,000 hostages were held in a Budjonnovsk hospital in the Stavropol region, and in January 1996 another hospital was occupied in Kizljar, Dagestan. Even in these cases, a large number of innocent civilians were killed. Hopefully, there will never be any success in obtaining international sympathy for its policy objectives by using such instruments. With regard to the situation in Chechnya, the Norwegian position is clear: it is essential that contacts and reconciliation provide the basis for the political settlement of this tragic conflict. The situation that has been fixed indicates that dialogue is now more than ever needed. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to use the opportunities we have, in bilateral and multilateral forums, to encourage such dialogue. A political solution must be found within the framework of the Russian Federation. Russia is a central ally in the international fight against terrorism, and of course Russia has a legitimate right to fight terrorism on its own territory. At the same time, it is important to stress that the fight against terrorism must not be opposed to respect for human rights. It was among the issues I raised with my Russian colleague during our meeting in Moscow on 3 October. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to follow closely the human rights situation in North Caucasus. The fight against terrorism must be carried out on a broad front and with many instruments. The instruments also include increased efforts for democratic and social development. On the Norwegian side, we are concerned about the humanitarian situation in the North Caucasus, and this year we have allocated approx. Twenty million. to projects and related measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e779	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. The Chechen World Congress, which was gathered in Copenhagen, gathered to condemn acts of terrorism, including hostage-taking in Moscow. In the view of SV, this is a signal from the Chechens that a person wants to end the attack in Chechnya. Norway will have Putin on a visit soon. It is then natural to address the Chechenia question and other documented human rights violations in Russia. In what way will the Foreign Minister do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e788	I am a little uncertain about what the last question was about, because I personally – not least – will have a meeting with Minister Ivanov on that occasion, and it would be natural to continue our dialogue from the past on these issues. I attach great importance to the fact that when we express our opinion on Chechnya and human rights, it is precisely because there has also been an involvement of the Norwegian authorities in the past. It's not because we've now had a hostage drama in Moscow. At that point, it must be very clear that terrorism of that kind must not pay off, and we must ensure that our comments are made in such a way that the hostages and terrorists do not get the impression that it can pay off. That's why it's important for me to say that we'll continue our dialogue, as we've had it before, in this area. I think it's important that Norway, as in the past, is just talking about these human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e795	I thank you again for your answer. A little bit about international law on this: International law with its ban on the use of power is, of course, the law and the law between states. We also have the human rights, which suck in the individual's dishes. Actually, we're talking about good old virtues like propriety and popularism, which we clearly see that the Russian state is missing in its treatment of the Chechenia question. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs how he assesses the actions of the Russian state in Chechnya in terms of creating greater respect for international law and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e804	Of course, when Norway has spoken about these questions in the past and has been clear about it, it is because we believe that there are important things to criticise here. That's what's at the bottom of this commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e809	Questions 28 and 29 will now be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e815	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘I refer to the answer to written question No. 4 from the representative of Klungland on sea lodges in Kristiansand. In this reply, the Council of State states that he ‘does not have a basis for further consideration of this matter’, as the Council of State ‘presites that the municipality and the county council will handle it further’. Until now, it has been shown to be a passive attitude from these. Governments have the overall responsibility for following up the intention of the law. Does the Council of State waive this overall responsibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e824	As Minister of Environmental Protection, I am responsible for managing the coastal zone in accordance with Storting's assumptions, so that important national interests are taken care of. In a letter dated 8 March this year to the coastal municipalities, the county councillors and county councils, I have pointed out the need for strict practice of the building ban in the 100-metre belt along the sea. I underlined in the letter municipal responsibility for managing the beach areas in line with national interests, and asked county officials and county councils to ensure that national guidelines were followed. I am following developments, including: through half-yearly reporting to the Department of Dispensations in the Beach Zone. It is also necessary for these guidelines to be addressed by the municipalities and the counties of West Agder in the case in question. So this is a responsibility I take seriously, and I therefore follow these matters very closely. This applies not least in the case of the seabeds in Kristiansand, where I have given answers to three written questions from the representative Rolf Terje Klungland. The same representative also raised the matter in an additional question in an earlier Question Time here in Stortinget. As far as I can judge, all relevant issues in this matter are adequately addressed through these answers. The case is handled by the municipality of Kristiansand and the county of West Agder. The municipality will review the current Flekkerø Town Council Plan, and the county will be involved in this plan. It is the municipality that, under the Planning and Building Act, is responsible for the handling of individual planning and dispensation matters. The county shall contribute and ensure that national interests are safeguarded. The State may, if necessary, promote objections to plans that are contrary to national interests in order to be brought to the Ministry of the Environment for decision. One example of such a case in the same region is the regulation plan for Ny-Hellesund in Søgne municipality in West Agder. Here the department took the objections, so that a building area for ten new cabins in the beach zone was removed from the plan. The rationale was the need for strict practices to protect beach areas. It is also the responsibility of the municipality to enforce the Law on Planning and Building and follow-up if illegal measures are taken. If the municipalities do not comply with this responsibility, it is appropriate for the county to intervene. Although of course I have the overall responsibility, it does not mean that the Minister for the Environment is going to deal with all individual matters. Once responsibility and tasks have been added to the municipality and the county – and when work is done on the issues locally – there is no reason for me to intervene. However, in cases where there is no local willingness to follow up legislation and ensure that national interests are respected, the Ministry of the Environment will be able, if necessary, to ask the county councillors to intervene with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e841	Of course, I am fully aware that it is not the role of the Minister for the Environment to intervene in all single cases around Norway. But I'm probably disappointed that the Council of State in these kinds of cases again shows that he takes a waiting and seeing attitude: he's going to follow developments carefully, there's sent letters, etc. It's all right, but while the beach zone is being built down. The case I am now addressing in the municipality of Kristiansand is of a principle nature, and my question is: we have not seen very much activity on the part of Kristiansand Municipality to go in and look at what are at least alleged illegalities – I can't vouch for it – and check it out. We have also not seen a very active attitude in relation to the county. Does this mean that the Council of State just wants to lean back, and then we'll see what happens? Or is it that the Minister for the Environment takes the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment to ensure that the laws that Stortinget has given are actually complied with – which I doubt in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e848	As I said in my first answer, I take this responsibility very seriously. That is why I have also clarified what are the national guidelines above the coastal municipalities, the county councils and the county councillors. I don't think I'm taking any wait and look- attitude here. The example of the beach zone being built down has not so much to do with these seabeds. Seabeds – also called naust – are already available. But it's an illegal disposal of the sea basins about them, for example. disposed of from being nascent to being put into service as a cabin. There have been claims of it, and the county of West Agder follows this closely. It is clear that it is difficult to go through each narrow seabed and look at what they are used for, but we are working hard on illegal use, among other things. through the county councillors, and so must the municipalities. In the last six months, the number of settlements in the beach zone has fallen slightly, not least, perhaps, after the letter I sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e857	I think it's good to take credit for things you're responsible for, but maybe it should also be that you take responsibility for things you're responsible for. I have no objection that a letter has been sent, but I just don't think that is enough. If we believe that the evolution that is now taking place in the coastal zone, by building it down along the whole of the Oslo Earth, from the Swedish border to the Southland – and in so far as this is the case – is a problem in relation to the availability of the public, which we believe, yes, we must be willing to change the law. Then it doesn't keep talking about letters that have been sent, or that you have to follow developments, because in that case it means that you accept that such a reduction takes place. And in this case, I just have to say, what will the Minister for the Environment actually do, except to say that the matter is now in the hands of the municipality and the county council? Can we trust that the Minister for the Environment will follow up this matter, so that we are sure that it will be all right, if there is anything in the way of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e867	In the case of the 100 metre belt legislation, the current legislation is the same as in the previous government. I have explained in a letter to the relevant actors what is the provision, namely that the starting point is that you should not build in the hundred meter belt. The representatives of the Ministry of the Environment around the counties are the countyers. And as I also presented to the representative Brustad, it is such that the county officials use their right of objection where they believe that there are projects around the counties that are contrary to what the Grand Duchy has adopted, and what is in my letter. And it's used industriously. I have had several such things on my table, and I have said, for example. in the case of Ny-Hellesund, that it was not relevant to the construction of ten new cabins, because it was in the 100 metre belt in the exact same region. In the case of sea basins, it is the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that the naust is not used for housing. I know that the representative is familiar with that kind of issue. It is not possible to use a sea dwelling for housing. Then you have to apply to the municipality for an exemption. If you don't get a derogation, it's illegal use. If the municipality doesn't knock it down, then I say that the state, which is the state's regional representative, will intervene. And that's taking responsibility. So I'm going to use this tool right over here. But I can't personally run around Flekker Island like a seabod police force and check whether the seabods are being used for illegal purposes. However, I have given as clear a message as this is possible. I have black Storting three times, plus once, in addition to today, so this I think is a matter where the council has been very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e878	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘I refer to letters from the Council of State concerning: the protection of forests for the Energy and Environment Committee on 29 October, confirming that no new appropriations have been proposed for the protection of the Ministry of Environment’s budget for the following year but are set at 110 million. EUR to pay for previously protected areas, and that there is room to protect new forest areas in 2003 through the use of funds from the Earth Fund. How much funding is made available for further protection of the Earth Fund, and how much new protection is it possible to achieve by these means?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e887	The need for increased protection of forests is highlighted in the Sem declaration. I am actively working with the Minister of Agriculture to find good solutions and new approaches to strengthen forest protection. As a first start, the Government provided 25 million in the context of the revised national budget for 2002. kr from the Ministry of the Environment’s budget for increased forest protection to be transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture’s agricultural funds. In parallel, the Government decided to amend the Statute of the Earth Fund so that the Fund could be used to finance forest protection. At the same time it was opened to approx. Ten million. kr, or about half of the Fund's available capital, can also be used for forest protection in 2002. This means that the Government has arranged for protection to be adopted already in the autumn, involving an increase of 35 million in the appropriations for forest protection. kr in relation to the previous plan, inter alia: the protection of approx. 40 square kilometers of Trillemarka in Buskerud. Furthermore, around half of what is in the future brought back from outstanding capital can also be used for forest protection. It will total 25 million. kr. Furthermore, it was opened up that the sales revenue from the sale of parts of Kjeller farm in Skedsmo Municipality is transferred to the fund to further strengthen forest protection. It is reasonable to expect that the sale of parts of Kjeller farm can be realised in 2003. However, since the introduction of capital into the Earth Fund depends on the sale of properties, the exact amount that could be used for forest protection in 2003 cannot now be determined – and therefore the amount of land to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e898	I thank you for the answer and have the following follow-up questions: a wide range of forest areas in Norway have been registered as very protective, including several large areas in East Norway, such as Skjellingshove in Uppland and Buskerud. These are unique natural documents that should be preserved. However, these areas are without protection as a result of a low level of protection. The lack of funding for more protection in the Government's draft budget makes these areas special areas of conflict and therefore hampers the process of further protection. What can the Council of State do to mitigate these conflicts and ensure that the registered protected areas are not destroyed pending decisions on more protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e903	If I understood the questioner correctly, I think we agree that we in Norway today have too low forest protection. We have protected approx. 1 pst. of our forest. The reason why forests are protected is that many of the species that are listed in red, i.e. threatened, in the woods. It is therefore necessary to protect part of these biotopes. Countries with which it is natural to compare, Sweden and Finland, have a higher level of protection than us. This is why the Government is prepared to increase forest protection in the years to come. We are now finishing what the Stortinget decided in relation to the Eastern protection plan, and will invite the Stortinge to discuss the future level of protection in the context of the presentation of the state of the state of the state of the state. At the same time, we have also contacted the Forest Geyser Association and the Forest Geyser Association in order to have a dialogue on how to find more jointly areas that satisfy the biological qualities that they are looking for and which it may be appropriate to protect in order to bring down an unnecessarily high level of conflict. That's one of the tools that we're using.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e908	I thank you for your answer. I note that even in the letter to the Energy and Environment Committee of 29 October, the Council of State has pointed out that the level of protection we will receive after the implementation of the agreed deforestation plan is about 1 p.m. of a productive forest area, is relatively small in relation to the minimum professionally recommended level. What will the Council of State do to enable us to achieve the professionally recommended minimum level of forest protection, which is 4.6 pst. of the productive forest area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e915	It is true that Forest Research and NINA have presented a report recommending that we increase forest protection in the years to come. It is also apparent from the Sem Declaration that this Government wants it. Compared to our neighbouring countries, we are lower, although it is not entirely possible to compare because they have a much larger forest production. Some of the forest in Norway actually protects itself, but in terms of the most interesting forest in the biological context, the government is set to continue working on forest protection in the years to come and to increase forest protection in line with the Government’s work base. The size will be invited to take part in that discussion and to develop the new principles of forest protection for the years ahead in the context of the State’s communication on the state of the environment, which is likely to be presented in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e920	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e933	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e939	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, as in the rest of the country, there are many agricultural estates without a permanent residence, together approximately. 46 000. This is due to a regulation that is too square and too old-fashioned. Will the Council of State, as requested by FrP, contribute to their being able to enter the open market and thus contribute to growth, both economically and in-dwellingly, in the municipalities of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e948	In order to stimulate the increased turnover of, inter alia: unoccupied properties were amended on 4 May 2001. Freedom of concession for built-up property was raised from 5 dekar to 20 dekar. The change was based on a desire for more frequent circulation of agricultural properties in the districts for, inter alia, ensuring long-term living. In the Sem Declaration, the Government proposed that the land limit for the acquisition of concessional property should be 20 decars of full-grown land and 80 decars of other land. In May to June, the Ministry of Agriculture issued a proposal for a new concession law at the hearing and, in line with the Sem Declaration, proposed an area limit of 100 deches. The proposal is based on the same views and assumptions that led to a change in the land border in 2001. I share the concerns of the representative of Bredvold that there are too many uninhabited agricultural properties both in Hedmark and in other parts of the country. If this is due to the fact that the legislation is too square and old-fashioned, I do not want to express myself with confidence about it. In my view, there are a number of different factors that have led us today to the situation the representative, Mr. Bredvold, describes in his question. Not least, the overall social development we have seen over many years, with a movement flow of people and labour from built-to-city, has been a decisive factor. If we are to change this development, it is essential that more people are given the opportunity to live their good lives outside the central urban areas. The role of policy makers must be to facilitate this as much as possible. Most of today’s small use has had a declining impact as a job in agriculture. Gradually, it's the function of living space that's most interesting both for individuals and for society. Such a change in the law proposed by the Government through a change in the concession law will stimulate a larger market and a more frequent movement of smaller properties. This will provide far better opportunities for those who want such housing, and it will provide a more active use and management of properties that are currently in many cases more or less fallow. The use of all the smaller properties will be a determining factor for future housing and activity in many rural communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e959	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret positively, because the view of the Minister of Agriculture is very much in line with my thoughts of getting the districts to become new owners of properties that have lost much of their importance as traditional agricultural jobs, and which have thus gained greater importance as a place of residence than as a place of work. An increase to 100 goals, of which a maximum of 20 must be cultivated, is a question, but it is at least an important step in the right direction to vitalize the countryside. Today's maximum price of properties, i.e. the farm's return, determines the price, and the seller often seems that his life's work cannot be sold at a distance price. Instead, you keep the use, and the decay may continue, and the evaporation continues, not least. Does the Council of State see this development as a danger – so that the maximum price must also apply to use over the 100 units we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e966	I'm very concerned about these questions, because I think it's a deeply unhappy situation with an increasing number of very small uses that are not agricultural property in the economic sense that will provide some income of importance from agriculture and that are unoccupied. Some of the reason for this, I think – and that is the background to the government working on this issue, as I have said – is that it is not possible to sell this and get a reasonable price. We can see examples of properties that, according to today's rules, will be all the way down to NOK 40,000-50,000 on sale, and very often blood is thicker than NOK 40,000-50,000, and then it stays there. That's why what we want to get a freer price formation on the smallest properties, so that young people who want to live in the countryside and don't want to be forced into a small crowded municipal residential area get so much livery that it's possible to live the kind of life in the countryside for which the towns have tradition. Then, of course, it's a concern about the price formation of slightly larger agricultural properties. It is a paradox that, on the one hand, those who own larger agricultural properties do not get their values, and, on the other hand, that it should be possible for some to take over the properties and be able to serve that capital. That's why it's important, and there's been a development where you put a little more emphasis on the housing value also on that type of property.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e973	I nodded several times to the Minister of Agriculture's answer, and we agree more on this than on other matters. So I look positive at this. I have been in contact with some real estate agents on this issue, and there are people waiting to buy these types of properties. As soon as we get this fixed, I think this is going to be a big vitalization for the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e980	I very much agree with that. We've seen a development in other countries where more and more young people want to create a framework for their lives outside the cities and move out and maybe have some more land than the very least common municipal plots. Among other things, we do. See good examples in England. I am absolutely convinced that a proposal to lift the smallest properties – we may be talking about a 20-th thousand properties in Norway – out of price regulation will activate many rural areas and not act like the farmers' organisations' campaign today, that this is bad and difficult and unfortunate for the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e989	My question is to the Minister of Justice: ‘Is it possible for the Council of State to introduce new types of criminal species/sonance outside prisons so that, in particular, younger offenders are given better opportunities to get away from a criminal track in order to reduce the burden on settlement cows?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e996	As both the representative Storberget and I are familiar with, we introduced a new criminal reaction outside prison when the new Penal Code came into force on 1 March this year. The social penalty is a new main penalty that replaces the former social service and conditional judgment with supervision, and it is a good alternative to unconditional imprisonment for younger offenders. The social penalty as designed is expected to be an important tool to prevent new crime. It is a restrictive and demanding punishment. It should be a credible alternative to prison sentences, and there should be a low threshold to respond to offences under conditions for the implementation of social penalties, such as: in the event of re-entry into prison. The Court of Justice has been given great freedom to find the scope of the social penalty, and I believe that young offenders will make up a significant proportion of those sentenced to social punishment. At the same time, the free movement of persons has been granted a great deal of freedom to determine the content of the individual judgment on the basis of his or her crime and his or her attachment to the individual's needs. With regard to the representative’s reference to the cows, I am very satisfied that per. On 15 October, voluntary care received 321 legally enforceable social penalties. I am also very pleased to confirm that of the 321 judgments 226 are in force at the same time. This tells us that there has been rapid and effective proceedings in the criminal justice chain. Social penalties have been regularly the subject of conferences on criminal law. I have registered with satisfaction that the Public Prosecutor's Office has put in place a number of measures to ensure that the scheme is implemented. Our own members of the criminal service are also actively involved throughout the country with information in different forums where judges and prosecution authorities meet to focus their attention on social sanctions. I've agreed to a meeting with the State Attorney to discuss how the community sentence should be used even better as a good and credible alternative to unconditional imprisonment. Given that the law has only been in force since 1 March of this year, it seems that the social penalty could be a contributing cause for the reduction of pay queues. We have to follow closely the development of the social penalty, and I think we will then see that this is an appropriate punishment for young offenders. In particular, I have expectations for the use of conflict councils in social penalties relating to the youngest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1015	I thank you for your answer. It would have been a good answer if there had been an answer to the question I asked. The answer is in many ways a good symptom of how criminal policy is challenged, because I'm actually asking for new criminal reactions outside prison, beyond those we have today. I perceive that the debate on combating crime has become largely an economic and numerical issue, where we count the number of settlements and count the number of queues. We also see how fast it is to get a young person through the criminal justice system in particular without actually stopping and asking: what is happening to him? Do we have any chance of ensuring adequate rehabilitation? I can only mention one example in relation to a relevant out-of-school settlement that could have been an alternative to conditional judges, especially for younger people, home-soning, where it would have been interesting to hear whether the Minister of Justice shares the view of the majority who were on the Grand Duchy around 1998, when it was said that it was worth investigating.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1022	Home reconciliation we know from Sweden. There, home sonning largely replaces what we have in open institutions in Norway, and it has the same cost level as having the open prison institutions in Norway. It may seem that what has been used as a home soning in Sweden has almost led to a tougher situation for those in prison. But I'm going to take the representative's challenge directly, because I see he's looking for a reaction that's different than putting someone into prison. It is clear that I would like to look for an opportunity that we, for example. can expand the home we have, by letting someone do something for themselves, for example. working in some sense, so that you actually experience a behavioral correction, you feel that someone is reacting, and you feel that you get a meaningful ballast with yourself on in life. But then we have to change the law. Then I will stretch my mind, precisely because the representative challenges me to think in new ways, and because I take his commitment seriously. He wants people not to be trained to become criminals, but to get a chance to straighten out in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1027	I thank you for your answer. It is precisely this debate that I think we should have more when discussing criminal policy challenges. To a large extent, we have addressed a debate in which more and more severe penalties and more police are the solution to the criminal policy challenges that exist, while at the same time resolving the prevention area by putting an end to what is active prevention in the municipalities, among others. What's probably also a different cross of thought here is that we're getting a prisoner population of especially younger boys who are heavily affected by drug problems, heavy psychiatry and also ADHD diagnosis. I am glad that this year's budget strengthens precisely § 12-soning, the possibility of treatment. But does the Minister of Justice see any structural possibilities and changes in the structure, so that it will be easier for those entering the criminal justice system to get directly into relevant treatment, instead of having to pay almost the whole sentence inside and have only a few months left before you end up in some relevant treatment group?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1034	The representative answered a lot of questions. I want to be proper to the one who asks properly. Let me do the last one. It's clear that when we spend as much on psychiatry as we do, it's for the entire Norwegian population. It also applies to those who are in jail. There is no doubt that in the situations this representative is facing, we need to create administrative cooperation that is much better than today. There is also no doubt that in the case of people who need, for example: Drug-assisted treatment, which is a drug addict, requires a completely different administrative regime to ensure that they do not meet closed doors. One of the things in the government's drug plan is that, to put it that way, we have to lower the threshold to get in and make the threshold high to get out, so that you pull together, both on the medically assisted side and the pharmaceutical-free side. As far as other parts of the representative's questions to me are concerned, they are: Can other structures be considered? That's what I tried to do instead. I put a lot of effort into catching people up early. When I mentioned the social penalty, it's because I feel that it's not really taken out, and I have to agitate for it. Although the representative has asked about it before, I have to repeat it and actually bring a happy news in relation to the previous answer. So I opened up to a thought where I say, "Should we maybe expand the basis of the house to let people make up for themselves in other ways?" There I would like to join in a discussion, but I will not be able to answer any more now within the time available to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1046	This question, from Gunn Karin Gjul to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1049	My question to the Minister of Justice is as follows: ‘The Oslo Stifter project provides a unique treatment and rehabilitation service for prisoners with drug problems. In order for the pathologists to manage to get out of drug use, it is essential that treatment continues after an end to drug use. Today, several counties will not provide a guarantee of further treatment at the Tyre Centre after an end to settlement at the Stifender. What will the Council of State do to ensure prison inmates in Norwegian prisons a treatment offer after an end of residence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1058	The overall objective of the government is to reduce drug problems in society. As part of the follow-up to the Sem Declaration, last year the Government set up a State Secretary Committee to prepare an action plan on drug problems. This work resulted in the action plan on drug problems presented in the context of the State budget. In the action plan, the Government is particularly concerned that the responsibility for drug users should be clear, and not least that the treatment chain should be linked and have access to a differentiated treatment scheme. With regard to the follow-up of prisoners in the form of settlements in a treatment institution, Section 12, or follow-up on treatment after settlement, it is recognised that there is no equivalent offer irrespective of residence and economy. Some county councils have difficulties covering the county guarantee to cover stays at the institution. Already this autumn, the Ministry of Social Affairs will present a consultation note addressing the issue of financing measures for drug users in county treatment services. In the light of the consultation round, a new odelstation proposal will be presented which will affect the management of county treatment measures, also known as drug reform II. It is under these measures that the Tyre Centre finances its treatment sites. A large proportion of prisoners in prison have drug problems. The government therefore wants to increase the use of resources for this group, allowing more people to carry out all or part of the prison sentence in a treatment institution. In this context, the 2003 budget proposes to increase the contribution to Section 12 zoning by 5 million. kr. It is of great importance to the Government that drug users in need of treatment be accorded the same rights as the general population and treated with the same respect and care as other treatment-intensive ones. The government will therefore be investing in improving treatment resources at all levels to respond to drug users in need of equal treatment. In St. prp. No 1 for 2002–03 on administrative cooperation with the drug sector: ‘An important area in the future is to intensify cooperation with agencies that can help drug users get into treatment. Crime prevention will take the initiative of more committed cooperation with health and social affairs.’ For the Government, it is a priority task to build up the links between relief services and resolve prejudices against drug users/drug users. Finally, I would like to stress that for me, as Minister of Justice, the work on drug users will be an important area in the future. In particular, good administrative cooperation will be essential in order to ensure overall and good supply and to ensure the possibility of continued treatment after release.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1078	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We know, as the Council of State also pointed out, that there are an incredible number of people in Norwegian prisons who have drug problems. As he also said, they should receive better and more equal treatment in prison. But we have a different problem with this same problem, and that's the municipal and county guarantees, which are hard to get together and get at the time you need it. If the Minister of Justice were to think of trying to get those things to go more smoothly, it would have helped a lot of a drug addict.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1087	I know myself very well in the description of reality presented by the representative Rui here. What is expressed in the action plan for action against drugs is, of course, to ensure that administrative cooperation is effective and that these closures are not there and that, when decisions are to be taken, the measures should be synchronised. I know, just as the representative knows through his life experience, that it's often it's not like that, and I want to make sure that where I am, I'm going to do what I can to make this change. I actually spend a lot of time, among other things. to visit prisons, to record that they are administrative cooperation. I'm trying to initiate that it's going to happen both in relation to Aetat, social services and other parts of society from which people are entitled to help, so in this area I have an engagement. And here I think that political leadership can be expressed in part by the reform that the Social Minister comes with, but also by practical direct work – simply ‘leadership by walking around’, to put it that way. I can assure the representative that I am very committed to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1097	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘It has previously been decided to establish a joint purchasing centre for the State hospitals in Vadsø. Uncertainty about its implementation has been created. Can the Council of State confirm that the establishment is being carried out as established by the Government of Stoltenberg?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1106	I have previously explained to the Storting how I work in relation to this case. I refer you to the interpellation debate in this room on February 21st this year. I will also refer to the mention of this in St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002 and in St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003. Work has been conducted according to the guidelines drawn up in these contexts. Under the previous government, the Department of Social and Health at that time commissioned Health Nord to investigate how a purchasing unit in Vadsø could be organised. The investigation mission was also to outline how this could be designed. The further follow-up of the case by the Ministry of Health was to be done on this basis. I see it as the reason for the assignment from the government of Stoltenberg was a clear intention that a purchasing body should be established in Vadsø. I follow up the matter on the basis of this intention. At the same time, it is essential for me that the solutions chosen should ensure the ability of undertakings to perform their purchasing tasks in a rational way. It is also essential that the solution is anchored in regional health businesses. The work on monitoring the procurement functions to be located in Vadsø is organised in a working group consisting of representatives of regional health enterprises. This group shall identify areas and functions for which cooperation can be established and to be located in Vadsø. Furthermore, a steering group consisting of representatives of regional health enterprises and a representative of the Ministry of Health is established. The management board shall ensure that the solutions are satisfactory in relation to the premises set out, as I have explained in my reply. Work shall identify possibilities for national purchasing cooperation and the functions to be localised to Vadsø. I emphasise that in the planning phase there is good cooperation with regional health businesses, with good anchoring in enterprises. I will ensure that the areas identified for establishment will be followed up early, with satisfactory progress. The Ministry is now facing the transition from an investigation phase to an implementation phase. Before the end of the year work will start on the organisational establishment of the purchasing unit and contact will be made with municipal authorities to discuss practical aspects relating to its establishment. The Purchasing Entity will be established in Vadsø in the first part of 2003. This unit shall contribute to a rational and economically favourable purchasing system, with the possibility of further development, based on the specific competence that will be developed and established over time in that environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1121	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as a clear confirmation that he stands firm in the decision that his predecessor made, a principle decision to establish a joint purchasing centre. I also perceive that the Council of State determines that there should be one central purchasing centre for the whole country. This is important, because it will contribute to the economy of the state by coordinating procurement, and it is of major regional policy importance that new functions can be added to a local community with significant challenges. I also understand that the Council of State says that the central purchasing body will have a level as intended, i.e. that it will be able to have a force in the coordination of purchases, while, of course, a rational balance must be made between what is to be done as central purchasing and what is to be decentralised. With these assumptions, I'm satisfied with the Council's response, and I look forward to the follow-up and the establishment that he's sketching here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1128	Let me briefly make it clear that I intend to implement this measure on the basis of the decisions and intentions I have outlined in my reply. There will be a Purchasing Unit in Vadsø with functions served by regional health businesses and, at the same time – in which I fully agree with the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen – will represent an action of regional policy importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1133	Just a brief clarification that I assume the Council of State and I agree on. It will often be the case that individual entities may wish to do things in themselves, which it may be appropriate, in the overall assessment, to locate together. I therefore see the Council of State that it is not that all health businesses wish to have a common location outside their territory in isolation, but that from an overall assessment, they choose to have a nationally coordinated purchase, and that is the basis for the decision. I therefore assume that it is not necessary for each health business to order through the purchasing unit what individual enterprises themselves wish to do, but that there is a deliberate sense in coordinating the purchases. I perceive the Council of State as such and would like to ask him to confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1140	I can confirm that it is not a question of depriving regional health companies and health businesses of their responsibility for procurement. It is a question of bringing together an environment of competence at national level with which health businesses see themselves serving, in relation to the coordination that may lie within it. It is very important that we get to such a national environment and that it is at the same time anchored in health businesses in such a way that it actually benefits and takes care of the intentions contained in the decision to which the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen referred. That's what I'm working on to make sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1149	I ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the ‘State of the Kingdom’ on 23 October, it was demonstrated that a private hearing aid centre requires a proportion of hearing aids users. The majority has decided that hearing aids should be available free of charge in Norway. Will the Council of State ensure that those users who have paid a fair share of hearing aids are visited by the self-employed company and get their money refunded?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1158	Hearing aids are covered by the public interest within fixed price limits. If the user has to have more expensive appliances than the price limit, the user must pay the difference himself. Hearing aids in public hospitals are responsible for the provision of hearing aids. A public hearing centre may authorise doctors with the necessary facilities and equipment to perform part of the work, in particular studies of the patient and the requisition of apparatus for the account of the social security. Whether these examinations take place in the hospital or in private contract doctors, the patient pays the usual proportion of the medical examination. Public hearing aids may also agree with dealers of hearing aids on parts of the dissemination work, for example. the fitting and testing of appliances. In that case, the compensation to be paid to the dealer for this work is agreed, but the patient shall not pay for it. According to the Rikstrøgdeverket, half of the hearing aids are delivered from the public hearing centre and half from the local dealer who has an appointment with the hearing centre. It is only hearing centres and doctors authorised by health care establishments who have the opportunity to obtain appliances for the benefit of the social security system. The games shall obtain the apparatus through the auditory centre or the dealer who has an appointment with the auditory centre. Except for the proportion of medical consultation and, where appropriate, the amount in excess of the price limit for the apparatus itself, the user does not pay anything for the hearing aid. It is the social security that buys and then owns the hearing aid. A hearing aid must therefore be returned and can be recycled after use. This also applies in cases where the user has chosen a more expensive appliance than the one covered by the social security cover and has paid the fee himself. Many suggest that some dealers charge the patient for their work. It is not in line with the intentions of the regulatory framework for the acquisition and dissemination of hearing aids. I understand that this practice has helped to ensure that the system of communication of hearing aids has become incomprehensible to users and that they are not aware of their rights. That's not good. The Ministry will therefore carry out a review of the entire system for the transmission of hearing aids. The review shall be completed before 1 March 2003 and will demonstrate the need to clean up the responsibilities and clarify legislation and procedures in this area. In the specific case of Strömen Høresenter, the county councillor in Akershus has taken an initiative to examine the practice for the distribution of hearing aids followed by this hearing centre. This study will show whether patients are entitled to a refund and where they can claim it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1173	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I am very satisfied with it, and that it will be cleaned up in this. We cannot accept that the decision of the Storting is overrun by ear-nose-neck doctors and private hearing centres. I have no reason to ask any additional questions beyond what I have done, and the answer I have received is a pleasure. I hope that in the autumn of the new year you will be able to clean this up, and that the patients who have paid a proportion for the hearing aid will receive this money back promptly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1180	Does the Council of State need any additional response?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1183	Nothing but that I will follow up the review of procedures, regulations and organisation that I have announced. I would also like to familiarise myself with the results of the county doctor's examination in the specific case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1191	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘A report from the Directorate for Social and Health recommends the development of ‘District Medical Centres’. [[October 2002]] Among other things, Horten is mentioned as an example. How will the Council of State stimulate the establishment of grey zone healthcare between specialist health services and community health services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1200	The Social and Health Directorate has recently produced a report on the development of hospitals for future decentralised specialist health services. The report describes existing hospitals, new establishments and experimental schemes in progress. The Directorate recommends stimulating the further development of decentralised specialist health services and proposes calling the future hospitals ‘District Medical Centres’, following the model of the district psychiatric centres established in recent years. In St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000 on emergency medical preparedness and in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 it has been highlighted that conditions related to hospitals should be investigated, that the operation of existing hospital facilities should be ensured, and that trials should be conducted on decentralised specialist health services and other cooperation measures between the specialist health service and the community health service. Today we have 42 hospitals in Finnmark which are now funded by Health Nord as an interim solution until questions about future organisation and financing of hospitals are resolved. A number of new interventions and trials are currently being carried out with decentralised specialist health services, hospitals and other services such as collaboration between hospitals and community health services. One example is Hallingdal Sukestugu, which operates as a department under Ringerijk Hospital. At the Ørland Medical Centre, a decentralised outpatient clinic for specialist health services is established in cooperation with St. Olavs Hospital in Trondheim. As of 2001, cooperation is under way to develop a new district health service offer in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen. For the time being, teleradiological services and dialysis unit have been initiated at the Ottawa Medical Office. The Valdre District Medical Centre is a cooperation project between municipalities and Health East, which includes outpatient clinics, dialysis and the maternity centre, as well as a number of municipal services. At Alta Helsensenter, cellular anticancer treatments are given in collaboration with the University Hospital of North Norway. At Alta Health Centre, Ørland Medical Centre and Otta Medical Centre, dialysis trials are also conducted outside the hospital. The pilot scheme will be financed from 1 July of this year through input-driven funding and administered by the respective regional health establishments. A nationwide scheme will be proposed as soon as the evaluation results are available, given that they are positive. The ongoing projects show that it is possible to establish decentralised specialist health services in good interaction between municipalities and health enterprises. The result appears to be qualitatively good health care in the vicinity of patients’ homes, increased safety and accessibility for the public and lower costs, among others. in the case of the saving of costs of sick transport. I would like to encourage healthcare itself to seek further development of such cooperation measures. It is argued as an obstacle that today’s financial instruments do not stimulate municipalities and health businesses enough to invest in the further development of decentralised specialist health services. As part of its mandate, the selection investigating future financing of specialist healthcare, the Hagen Committee, therefore, has good solutions for grey areas between treatment inside and outside hospitals, including outpatient treatment, relieving treatment, the place of hospitals in relation to primary health care and responsibility for pre-treated patients. The Hagen committee gives its position at the turn of the year, and I will come back to the matter in connection with the examination of the overall proposal of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1217	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I understand it, the Minister of Health also welcomes the further development of district medical centres. And as stated in this report to which reference is made, the Directorate also recommends that it be stimulated to establish such decentralised specialist health services in cooperation between municipalities and health businesses. Now there is an application from Vestfold for this, namely from the municipality of Horten and the hospital in Vestfold, which has planned a so-called half-way service in the former Horten hospital. In fact, the Horten project is used as an example of a pilot scheme, a new establishment, with strong leadership also from the Storting Social Committee, which says that this is a very important project, which should be supported. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Health how this could be followed up when it is intended as a pilot experiment that can not only benefit all municipalities in Westfold, but can also refer to the entire Norwegian health service as a good project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1226	I have given a review of this project proposal in St.prp. No 1, and I will show that in my answer I gave a clear challenge to municipalities and healthcare companies in general to further develop this type of cooperation. It is Health South and Horten Municipality that in this context should seek to develop this as a cooperative action. For my part, I am now working to facilitate the general framework conditions for the further development of a decentralised specialist health service, and if we do so, on the basis of the attitude of the Hagen Committee, it will also facilitate the basis for launching new such measures, for example. as in Horten. I can also mention that I am working on an assessment of whether responsibility for the financing of sick transport should be transferred from the social security fund to health care businesses, which will allow these costs to be seen more closely in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1233	It is positive that further work is being done on this. The report from the directorate says that one is pending due to uncertainties about funding. I believe that this must be a clear potential for efficiency, for example. by providing ready-to-write patients with half-way services. The Sintef public sector has produced a report that illustrates costs and refers to the savings that can be made by such measures. When the Minister for Health refers to the Hagen Committee, which has a mandate to find solutions for grey-zone patients, who are then being treated here, I would like to ask: how can it be followed up by the Minister in relation to funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1240	That's about. Six months and a half until the Hagen Committee will deliver me its report. It will be consulted and will be followed up in 2003. My aim is to be able to propose changes to the 2004 budget. In addition, I consider changes in the responsibility for sick transport and its financing, which have been cited as an obstacle to developing this type of service by several of those who have been experimenting in this area. In fact, the savings that obviously occur in health transport costs of decentralised services do not benefit those who operate the services, but benefit from the State Treasury and the National Works Agency. Transferring responsibility for sick transport, as I believe, will be one tool in addition to what is mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1250	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «I St. pp. No 1 for 2001-2002 refers to the need for a new intensive observation post at the State Centre for Epilepsy. This is underlined in the Budget Input. S. No 11 in the same year through the following: «Both new bed section and a new intensive observation post consider the Committee to be important for the very near future». Will the Council of State take initiatives to start the expansion process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1259	In order to answer the question from the representative of Stenberg Ryen, I would first like to say something about the general management system for the specialist health service that is enshrined in the Health Business Act. In the light of the budget decision taken in Stortinget, the Ministry shall issue a management message to the regional health establishments for the following year. In order to fulfil the purpose of the law, it is important that the management message should focus as much as possible on performance requirements in relation to the objectives set for the service and not in detail on how to achieve the results. With regard to investment in construction and equipment, it is essential that regional health businesses themselves assess how they will invest funds within the framework of resources and performance requirements, including how frameworks and guidelines drawn from central authorities are taken into account. From Health Sør I have been informed that the construction of a new intensive observation post at the Special Hospital for Epilepsy is considered an important measure. However, Health South has not found it possible to include the extension of the Special Hospital for Epilepsy within the proposed framework for 2003. The Ministry will follow up the matter in the forthcoming governance dialogue with Health South, based on the report that has been made, both from the Department and from the Stortinget, also with regard to the overall assessment that Health South has done so far. Health South also points to challenges in financing national functions. A clarification of the funding of national functions will provide a better basis for assessing this type of investment. I consider coming back to the Stortinget with proposals to change the funding mechanism for national functions. Such a proposal, if any, will be based on the Hagen Committee's position, which was handed to me before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1273	What must govern the activities of health businesses and what the Ministry and the Council of State are doing must be what this House says, and it is quite clearly stated in the Budgetary Statement. S. No 11 for 2001-2002. I've already quoted this. Another majority comment, which appears in the same position, even states that ‘the Ministry should ensure that the health region south prioritizes the construction of a new bed section and a new intensive observation post at the State Centre for Epilepsy’. This is, of course, a very clear political signal. Are there any political signals that will govern what health businesses are doing, or are there the performance targets mentioned by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1280	As I explained in my first reply, the Ministry's management message to health businesses is to be based on the decisions taken here in Stortinget and on the leaders behind the decisions taken here. In a budgetary procedure, there will be the appropriations decided by the Grand Duchy, and it will be the presidencies which follow with the decisions adopted. I will follow up the budgetary procedure in Stockholm for 2003 – for this is 2003 we are talking about – in line with this governance system. In other words, in the governance dialogue that we are going to have with Health South, I will base myself on both what the Stortinget has said earlier, and what the Stortinget is doing in the context of the 2003 budgetary procedure, but with respect for the overall responsibility that Health South must have in order to balance the use of the total investment funds made available by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1287	In St. prp. No 1 for 2002-2003 refers to a new system for the management and financing of investments in the health sector. This can be seen, among other things: a specific section on large investment projects, which refers to how large investment projects can be managed if health firms do not find room for those investments within the normal framework. Could the Council of State consider the development of an intensive observation post at the State Centre for Epilepsy such a particularly large investment project?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1292	Initially, one with “large investment projects” is thinking of large hospital expansions, such as what we are doing now at St. Olav’s Hospital in Trondheim, and what – it is mentioned in the proposition – is planned in connection with A-hus, i.e. the hospital in Lørenskog, and at the Radium Hospital. There are examples of a magnitude that will qualify under that concept. So far, I'm not aware that the plans for an extension at the Special Hospital for Epilepsy are of such a scale, but that does not mean that the question could not be dealt with in the budget of the Stortinget. To a large extent, it is up to the Storting which decisions will be taken in the context of the State budget — it is fully up to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1306	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘The Court of Auditors strongly criticises NORAD’s arrangements for the distribution of funds and that organisations have received funds in breach of the legislation. The Executive Director of the Atlas Alliance admits that they have been transferred money before it was written a formal cooperation agreement with NORAD, and says to the Nations that it is possible this is not according to the book. This is critical. What will the Council of State do to improve the control of the allocation of aid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1315	The National Audit Office has identified shortcomings in NORAD’s management of assistance to the Department of Assistance and the Atlas Alliance. This is an expression of the fact that the current legislation and guidelines have not been followed in this specific case. This is very unfortunate. This has therefore been followed up from my side. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken initiatives towards NORAD in order to ensure an improvement in the procedural procedures in relation to rules and guidelines. This includes, inter alia: addressed in connection with the management of NORAD by the U.D. NORAD itself has taken action and is planning to finalise new internal guidelines for the management of grants to non-governmental organisations during the autumn of 2002. In addition, an instruction is now being prepared for the procedure to replace the existing manual for the management of grants to non-governmental organisations. As from 2003, the agreements with Norwegian non-governmental organisations will be replaced by multi-annual cooperation agreements. In the new cooperation agreements, inter alia: requirements for objectives, results, accounts and audits to an even greater extent than previously integrated. In addition, the new agreements will provide a pre-requisite on the control access of the administration and the National Audit Office. There is a need for a review of umbrella organisations that have agreements with NORAD. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore taken the initiative to carry out an independent evaluation next year of this form of cooperation. This includes, for example: organisations such as the Minister for Assistance and the Atlas Alliance. As regards the overall control of the allocation of assistance funds, it is good. A number of applications are processed and significant funds are managed, without criticism from the National Audit Office. The findings of the Riksrevision have therefore belong to very special cases. This is critical. But we have already taken the necessary steps to ensure a fully satisfactory management. I have full confidence that NORAD sees the seriousness of this and will follow up in a proper way. We will have an ongoing dialogue with NORAD on this in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1330	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad that it's taken to close any holes that need to be in this system. I believe that Norwegian taxpayers are entitled to check that no questions can be asked about the use of aid. I can understand the frustration of the many who find it strange that assistance is given to dictatorship states and countries where the authorities spend money on arms instead of food for a starving population. Will the Minister for Development contribute to more stringent requirements for countries receiving assistance in terms of what the country itself spends on and contributes to its own population?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1339	I just want to make it clear that there was probably no hole that you had to close in NORAD, but a mistake that is in the proceedings. I don't think we can find many holes in NORAD. They do a good job and have good control of the funds. But this can be wrong, and I have said that is unfortunate. In the case of Norwegian taxpayers' money, I very much agree with the representative in the sense that the funds are managed properly and properly, and that they produce results in terms of combating poverty for those who need it the most. I work on that every day, and it also applies to the requirements we impose on the countries with which we cooperate. In fact, it is no longer a dictatorship that belongs to Norwegian countries of cooperation. Most of them have gone through free, democratic elections. Most of them have been subject to tough political and economic reforms, and most of them have found that the rewards of tough economic and political reforms have been reduced. Norway has not been involved. Let's set it up. In the case of countries that we believe still have a way to go – I was in one of these countries last week, Angola – there is no doubt about what demands we are making. We have given strong and clear leadership to the Angolan authorities about the importance of the oil revenues they have, benefit the population and now, after the war, is being used to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1348	I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1385	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. Question 16 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1393	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘The Fisheries Director shall, in the absence of a hearing, state to the proposed coastal fleet operating arrangements that these ‘will be able to act as tradable quotas in practice... The introduction of tradable allowances in any form could have unintended consequences both geographically and in terms of fleet structure’. The Minister for Fisheries rejected the proposal in an interview with the Bladet Vesterålen on 10 August. Why does the Council of State and the Fisheries Director disagree on this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1402	First, I would like to reject the fact that I and the Fisheries Director disagree. The Fisheries Director shall, on a principle basis, give an opinion on the operational arrangements in his opinion on the consultation proposal that we have submitted on the restriction of access to the sea and hake fishing activities of the coastal fleet. This was before the Ministry of Fisheries sent to the consultation the proposal for the introduction of special quota schemes, also referred to as operational and structural arrangements, for coastal fleets. In its initial consultation opinion of 21 June, the Fisheries Director warns of the possible consequences of coastal fleet operating arrangements. Here the Fisheries Director states that the implementation of operational arrangements will not reduce the capacity of the coastal fleet, but could, on the contrary, significantly increase the use of coastal fleet capacity. The Director also states that operating arrangements will be able to act as tradable allowances, all the time when any allowance transfer will mean that the allowance basis changes ownership for shorter or longer periods. The introduction of tradable allowances in any form could have unintended consequences both geographically and in terms of fleet structure in addition to the control challenges that a system of tradable allowances will pose. I agree. These were views which the Ministry of Fisheries therefore took into account in its proposal for the design of special quota schemes for coastal fleets. On 7 August we sent out a consultation note proposing the introduction of special quota arrangements for the coastal fleet. I must be allowed to quote: ‘... operating arrangements have equivalent points to tradable allowances, all the time during which any quota exchange will mean that access to fishing of a given quantity is transferred from one fisherman to another, for a shorter or longer period. However, marketable allowances are not part of the regulatory system and shall not be introduced as an indirect effect of the operating arrangements. Therefore, there may be reason to have a relatively strict regulation of the use of operational arrangements to ensure that the right to fish and to have its income base from fishing are reserved for active fishermen in line with the Participant Act and not transferred to passive ‘quota managers’ engaged in the exchange of allowances they have once been allocated.’;» In the proposal for operational arrangements, the Ministry has introduced a number of restrictions on the use of operational arrangements. There are size limits, there are geographic limitations, and there are time limits. The use of the arrangements shall be subject to prior approval by the authorities, as always, and shall not result in increased pressures on open fisheries and non-regulated stocks. In its opinion to this consultation note on 25 October this year, the Fisheries Director maintained his view that the introduction of operational arrangements would not reduce coastal fleet capacity and that it would be a control challenge to address this. The Director points out that the primary problem facing the coastal fleet is overcapacity, and that this should rather introduce clean structural arrangements that will reduce the number of vessels over time. With respect to reporting, there is a misunderstanding that there should be a discrepancy between the Fisheries Director and the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1420	That's good to hear. Nevertheless, it must be noted that the debate that is going along the coast goes for or against transferable quotas, and one senses that this is a formal introduction of transferable quotas. I wish to display the "Fire Point" application which was shown on the NRK last Tuesday. Here we saw how the purchase and sale of fishing rights takes place in practice, just through a few turns to circumvent the legislation. This is done with the approval of the Department and the Directorate. The problem with this is, of course, as Stortinget has said, that it is not right that one who has been granted a right at random and free of charge should be able to sell this right and get rich at it. That's why this is against Stortinget's expressed will. We also saw in the program how the administrative lease in the department cut down energy in refusing to purchase and sell fishing rights. I am further wondering: Is the Council of State in agreement that the purchase and sale of fishing rights in Norway is actually taking place today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1429	I think it's very important that we define negotiable quotas. Marketable allowances in the meaning of Iceland are not available in Norway, nor is there any proposal from this government to introduce such schemes. However, ships and associated ratings have been traded for a long time after approval by the authorities. As the interpellant also says, these transfers take place after approval by the Directorate and the Department. And right there is the important thing that separates tradable allowances, in the sense of free transferability, from the arrangements we have in Norway. We have not changed the practice or the law since I took over as the Council of State, and in this way the practice of the trading of ships and the transfer of allowances under the Act of Participation and other laws is nothing new. In this way, the «Fire Point» programme did not break anything new. These are issues that are well known.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1434	There are quite a few of me and the Council of State. It does not, however, legitimise that the Department has a practice that is contrary to what the Storting has laid down by laws and regulations. This is not a secret to us who, after all, represent the coast. You can read about available quotas in each issue of the Fishing true. Quotas are traded. The fact that there is an important difference between a free movement and a turnover to be authorised in the ministry is quite correct. There's a difference. But what the Council of State has now put on the table in relation to operational and structural arrangements is a negative development in this way. A freer movement – if turnover is not completely free, it is in any case the reality, as a number of hearing authorities experience it – is serious. I wonder if the Council of State, as a number of hearing authorities have said, is interested in investigating the consequences before introducing these schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1441	With regard to this issue of a number of consultation opinions, there will probably be a question of how many people count when making a series. But I record that, for example, in Finnmark County Fisheries Team – and as far as I can see the state politicians – they would like to try it out by becoming a trial team. I find that the industry and a number of hearing bodies want to have specific operational arrangements and structural arrangements that are not at all the introduction of negotiable quotas in the sense that the representative Elvik wants to put in place. But I take it in my mind that when the Ministry of Fisheries was given the authority of the Storting to set up special quota schemes for the coastal fleet – and they got them on 26 April 2001 – the majority of the Storing Committee pointed out that arrangements had to be put in place to ensure the sustainable and cost-effective exploitation of fishing resources, a local coastal fleet and a differentiated structure. I'm adding up to that. But I also record that the debate Elvik is going about how to deal with the pricing of ships with approved allowances is a debate on rent. If I think SV is correct, you want to introduce the base rate, because that's the only thing that can solve this problem. And I'm not prepared to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1450	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘A man from Asker has been very committed to removing the municipal excesses on social alarms in the municipality. He believes that these costs are unreasonable to users, in addition to providing little income to the municipality when taking the administrative costs into account. What is the opinion of the Council of State that local authorities are taking part in the use of social alarms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1459	Local authorities have chosen different solutions for the organisation of the social alarm service, the allocation of alarms and self-payment. In some municipalities, alarms and services are free, while other municipalities have self-payment schemes. Asker municipality, which is drawn up on the question, has a self-payment scheme for social alarms where persons who have an income of over 2 G pay NOK 100 per month and persons who have an income of less than 2 G are exempted from paying a self-payment. Local authorities have largely chosen solutions tailored to local needs. Some municipalities have organised and outsourced the safety alarm service to the fire service, non-governmental organisations or private companies, such as The falcon. Social alarms are a non-statutory service. Municipalities are therefore free to design the scheme in terms of organisation, allocation and ownership. On this basis, I do not consider it appropriate to introduce a general exemption for such services, as in some municipalities it may lead to the withdrawal of the offer. Because the service provides security for the user, it will result in a relief on the other auxiliary equipment. For this reason, I also expect local authorities to manage the scheme in a sensible way, and to see the trade-offs in connection with users' expenses for other care services. I expect the municipalities to also assess the price setting in relation to the administrative costs. Differences in ownership ratios between municipalities mean that there is a need to take a closer look at the practice of today's social alarm system. The Ministry, in cooperation with the Municipal Councils, will assess, for example: purchasing procedures and also the possibility of coordinating purchases in order to reduce the costs of local authorities in relation to the purchase of alarms. The Ministry has also taken the initiative to develop a supervisor for the municipalities dealing with social alarms in the care service. In working on this, we will also look at the practice of self-payments in municipalities. This guide will be clear next year, and the Ministry will assess its impact in relation to the overall social alarm provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1470	I thank you for your answer. The answer contains some elements of what I would call positive thinking from the Council of State in relation to at least starting a dialogue with the Municipal Councils on the future and the cost of social alarms. But what disappoints me a little bit is that the Council of State does not have a more principled approach to the question. The social alarm is given to people who, for good reason, feel unsafe. This man from Asker, who has engaged, Henning Furulund, has epilepsy and is dependent on a security alarm in order to function. Does it not seem to the Council of State that it has some clear principles, when people who simply need this alarm in order to be able to function in their everyday lives are to be met with prostheses, and we actually have examples that people have to opt out of such a fundamentally important offer as the safety alarm would be?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1477	Now my answer was based on a principle approach, because this question has also been dealt with in the Storting in the past. In fact, during the examination of the 1999 budget, it was established that social alarms should be a municipal responsibility. It was an overall assessment that this was the best solution. The option that was considered was to transfer responsibility to the public and assistance centres. Among other things, emphasised that the provision of social alarms should be seen in the context of the services provided by the municipality. This applies in particular to other social services related to home help, but also to calls connected to the use of alarms. Besides that, I see that there is good reason to look at the practice, and I want to follow it up in contact with KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1484	I am of course aware that this question has been considered before. But because a matter has been assessed earlier, it is not said that one has found the eternal truth. It must always be possible to re-examine questions if you gradually gain knowledge and experience moving towards perhaps rethinking a matter. At least my attitude will be that I recognize that there is something called municipal services. I recognise that there will also be excesses for municipal services. But I must say that I am a little disappointed that the Council of State does not open up to think about whether the social alarm should be such a type of municipal service for which it is natural to charge. The social alarm represents something quite different than, for example: home help. The safety alarm is just about the most important thing – the user’s sense of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1491	It is important to deal with the decision of the Storting, and this was treated as well-known. It was also very clearly stated that it should be a municipal responsibility. I have also said that there are differences in ownership between municipalities, which makes it quite natural to look at precisely the practice. I'll follow up on it, of course. I think it might be useful that we get a supervisor within the area, because I think the criteria and the indications for getting a social alarm are also very different.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1501	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Due to the difficult financial situation of the municipalities of Bergen, the City Council has applied for the postponement of the completion and the conversion of three nursing homes with the support of the State action plan for the care of the elderly until 2007 and 2008 respectively. The County of Hordaland will not grant such a deferral on the basis of the rules of the action plan to deadlines for completion, which are 2005. Can the Council of State contribute to the amendment of the rules in such cases, or to the greater adaptation of the needs of the municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1510	For the treatment of St.meld. No 31 for 2001-2002, the end of the action plan for the care of the elderly, provided that the action plan is to be finalised in 2005. In the case of projects under way, the majority of the Social Committee argued that the projects not completed by the end of 2005 could be implemented beyond this year. This has been followed up by the Ministry that the regional offices of the Husbank and the county and county councillors have been informed that municipalities in need of it will be able to agree on a planned conclusion with the Husbank when they exceptionally extend beyond 2005. For projects with commitments in 2002, there will be some projects such as: for construction reasons will not be completed until 2006. The guidelines of the House Bank assume that the projects to which the municipalities have applied for grants have been incorporated into the financial plan or budget. It is precisely to ensure that projects are realistic and that municipalities can take responsibility for the operation. If the municipality does not wish to give priority to the projects within its financial plan until 2005, this means that there is no basis for granting house banking grants under the current grant scheme. The municipality of Bergen wants to postpone three construction projects with a total of 116 sites, so that they can be completed in 2007 and 2008. There is also reason to stress that when the municipality of Bergen has received an undertaking to build these sites, it is based on the municipality's need for places today. It is also a prerequisite for the completion of 2005 on the basis of which the municipality’s application for grants under the old age plan was made. There is, as I have pointed out, access to exceptional arrangements for completion in addition to 2005 with the Husbank, if there are construction reasons for this. The assumption is that the projects are incorporated into the municipality's financial plan or budget. Where municipalities do not give priority to projects in budgetary context, there is no basis for postponing them. This could lead to many projects not being completed until 2010. By delaying large-scale construction projects far in time, one will not be able to complete the action plan and achieve the objectives of coverage, exclusive to all who want it, and modernisation of old building mass, as the Stortinget has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1523	I thank you for your answer. I know well what has been the purpose of this plan and the follow-up from the municipalities. I believe that the Council of State is aware that it has been within the economic plan of Bergen, but the government as it is is also well aware that the economic situation of the municipality of Bergen is very special in relation to the distribution of the transmission system. It's not that one doesn't need these 116 places, one actually needs them, but because of the economic situation, one has gone through the financial plan again, asking for these three hospitals to be postponed. That's why I'm once again asking: Is it not possible to see with satisfaction that you have to be able to postpone the completion?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1532	This is about the municipality's willingness to give priority to the development of care for the elderly locally and to follow the plans laid down by the municipality and to which grants have been granted within the guidelines laid down. There has also been a broad consensus on this. The municipality of Bergen has had more than eight years from the adoption of the action plan and is known in 1997 until the projects will be completed in 2005, to plan and implement the development in line with the action plan for the care of the elderly. I also think it is right to say that the municipality has made some progress, especially early in the action plan period. In the interests of the elderly in Bergen who need new, modern hospitals, additional delays will be unfortunate. For example, Bergen has a low exclusive share, compared to the national average.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1539	I have to say that I am disappointed with the answer, and above the Council of State's claim that there is no willingness to give priority to care for the elderly in Bergen. That's what I think. There's a lot of will for it, but the municipality has a big financial problem with its budgets, because the transmission system frames Bergen very hard with other municipalities. I think the government is aware of that. In addition, this government reduces transfers to municipalities. So it doesn't have anything to do intentionally, but actually with the ability to do it. I thought it might be helpful from the state's side to work with Husbanken and Bergen, to get a job done, to give it to those who actually need it – because it's a fact, as the council says, that there's too little coverage for one another for the old people in Bergen. There should be a joint responsibility both for the Council of State, which will follow up the old age plan, for the Husbanken and for the municipality of Bergen. I'm asking the Council of State to be something more flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1544	The inclusion of the project in the financial plan or budget is a prerequisite for the grant. It is necessary to ensure that the projects are precisely realistic and that the municipality can take responsibility for the operation. Through the old age plan, the municipality has also contributed increased resources to operations, and the results have so far shown that municipalities have prioritised strengthening of care for the elderly, while many municipalities have also seen the possibility of improving the efficiency of operation through investments in better-organised areas for residents and employees. Yes, the budget is tight, in order to secure jobs and facilitate lower interest rates, and I have also noticed that the Workers' Party is concerned about this. It's worth noting that 1 pst. interest rate increases amount to approximately 800 million. NOK for the municipalities. However, there is a real increase in the income of municipalities next year at approx. NOK 2.6 billion, and approx. 500 million. SEK of which is free income. It is the municipalities that have to take responsibility for prioritisation and to find solutions that ensure precisely this operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1554	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «According to the October 28th and 29th Newspaper, older people in hospitals are receiving less and less medical care. The supervision of county doctors at 31 nursing homes in four different counties shows that one in three nursing homes does not have sufficient medical coverage. What action will the Council of State take to achieve a higher medical coverage in Norwegian nursing homes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1563	It is important to ensure a medical coverage at the nursing homes that is sufficient to provide a good medical offer to the residents. According to the Municipal Health Services Act § 1-3, it is the responsibility of municipalities to provide general medical services in the municipality and medical services in hospitals. Hospital medical services are mainly provided through part-time posts of local authorities. Under the regulations on the fixed medical scheme in the municipalities, the municipalities may impose on doctors with a fixed medical agreement participation in public general medical practice, including medical services in hospitals. The agreement between the Norwegian Medical Association and the Municipal Councils’ Central Association states that the municipalities may impose full-time curative practices on doctors up to 7.5 hours of public general medical medical work per year. week. Overall, there are 3,860 fixed medical contracts in the country, which also provide a good potential for ensuring good medical coverage in hospitals. Access to medical services has generally improved since the introduction of the fixed medical system. The number of permanent homes available has been reduced from 294 per. 1 June last year to 120 vacant children's homes per year 30 September 2002. Better medical coverage in municipalities also provides better conditions to increase access to and stability of medical services in hospitals. As part of improving the quality of care services, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health has been asked to assess the general medical coverage of hospitals, including the possibility of introducing the principle of hospitalisation. The evaluations will be presented to the EEA in the context of the Quality Assurance Communication in spring 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1574	I thank you for your answer. Government responses show that there are many different reasons for the situation we have, with relatively poor coverage at many Norwegian hospitals. The county doctor in Sogn and Fjordane, Petter Augar, says to Dagbladet that one of the reasons for this is that the legal requirements towards municipalities are too unclear and that the only clear text in the law is that residents should have an annual medical check-up and that they should otherwise have basic medical needs met. The question to the Council of State is then: does the Council of State share the view that the law is too weak and too unclear? And will the Council of State take the initiative to bring about a clearer and more concrete legal framework with regard to medical services at Norwegian nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1583	Now it is very clear in the municipal health service law that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide a general medical service, among other things. in nursing homes. I also see that there is a great variety from municipality to municipality. It suggests that it is not necessarily the case that there is something wrong with the law, but the understanding and use of it. I agree with the representative that there is a great reason to address this. That is why I want to follow up in particular on the work done by the Social and Health Directorate in assessing the medical coverage of hospitals. I also see that it varies slightly from municipality to municipality whether the individual resident retains his or her tenure, or whether he or she is a regular doctor who is a supervisor attached to the hospital home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1588	It is positive that the Council of State will take a further look at this. A natural place to do so may be working on the quality and content of elderly care notified by the Government. Then there is another possible reason I want to draw attention to, and that is that the bedtime in Norwegian hospitals is now falling. This means that many, perhaps especially older people, who are discharged from hospitals have a relatively large and extensive treatment requirement when returning to their home municipality, in very many cases without a necessary treatment device in place. This affects patients, and perhaps the elderly in particular. Many suggest that this pressure against community health services, in order to use that expression, has been reinforced following the organisation of health businesses and as input-driven funding for hospitals increases. It now goes further in the draft budget, from 55 to 60 p.m. The question then arises: is the Council of State concerned about this development? And what will be done to prevent patients in this situation from becoming a caste ball between the municipalities and hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1597	This is a development I have followed in completely different roles over 25 years, and I share the concern of the representative Molvik for that situation. Experience shows that where systematic cooperation is established over time between primary health services in the municipality and specialist health services in the individual hospital, these transitions are much better – much better compared to the individual patient, much better compared to the family, and not least in transferring competences between hospital and primary health services. We also see that evolution has been such that competence shifts. Competence shifts either through knowledge transfer or simply shifting the job and, as such, giving older people a better opportunity to provide care for the elderly. Obviously, when we've spent money on recruiting health professionals and building skills, it's precisely these things that are the goal. It is important that we focus on the systematised work between administrative levels, but also that we have good arrangements for recruiting and providing transfer of competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1609	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The SEM declaration focuses on better targeting of public instruments, including: through commercialisation and internationalisation. The EU has programmes covering several years. Predictability of EU programmes is improved for participants when the framework is decided before the start of the programme. In Norway, annual frameworks are given in the State budget with possible changes in the revised national budget. How will the Council of State make the Norwegian programmes more long-term and predictable for the participants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1618	Enterprise policy responses are long-term in nature. This is a consequence of the long-term need to operate an enterprise. Public action shall respond to the needs of industry. The current instruments focus more on contributing to the development of good business environments than before. Such environments, clusters can be an example, are important for the creation of value, because the companies there are more profitable than they would otherwise be. Good business environments consist not only of enterprises but also of R & D institutions, banks, investors, entrepreneurs and public institutions. However, well-functioning business environments do not develop overnight and the public instruments should therefore be marked by predictability combined with the necessary flexibility. However, stable general framework conditions are the most important countries that can contribute to increasing the potential for long-term business planning. The government places great emphasis on this in business policy. In the spring, the government will present a case to the Stortinget on the industrial tool as announced in the 2003 state budget. It is my ambition that the instrument should focus more on innovation and internationalisation, and that the objectives we set for the institutions should be overdue. At the same time, it is clear that we are living in a changing world, and a high degree of adaptability is required of institutions to work with innovation in business. I agree with Mr Dybevig that predictability will improve for participants when the financial framework for a multiannual programme can be defined before the start of the programme. The Norwegian system of one-year government budgets does not give rise to this. This applies not only to industrial policy, but to most areas of the country’s operation. However, the system also provides certain benefits by allowing expenditure to be adapted to the current economic situation. In the modernisation of the public sector, we should be open to look at other countries and learn from our closest neighbours and partners where appropriate. We have some experience in how long-term budgeting is practised and the benefits it gives from our participation in a number of EU programmes. It is important that we also have increased long-term and predictability for Norwegian programmes. The appropriations must not fluctuate too much and too abruptly. Both the government and the magnificence have a clear responsibility here. On the other hand, no more programmes must be launched than can reasonably be expected to receive appropriations for the next few years. It is in the balance between these two considerations that the predictability of the Norwegian nutritional programmes must lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1633	Thanks for the answer. I have additional comments. It is such that the SND, the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund, is in a way a catalyst for small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. The companies they need to support often have little equity, but they have good ideas. It is often a sole proprietorship or a two-person enterprise or at least a small enterprise. These companies often need equity to put these good ideas into practice and the impulses they have. One must also be aware that the jobs of the future do not actually exist today, so that many of the jobs we receive in the future come from such small and medium-sized enterprises. And then we see in the evening post that SND is involved in financing the relocation of Norwegian jobs. Here, then, money is used to flag out Norwegian jobs, whereas in the districts, there is often an unforeseeable amount of support that SND can provide to these companies. And then I have two additional questions for the Council of State. One is: should not the policy on instruments apply as much as possible to Norwegian enterprises in Norway, so that we can get the innovation and entrepreneurship described so beautifully in the state budget for next year? At the same time, if Norway is to participate in the EU Framework Programmes, it is necessary to commit itself in a way over six to eight years. Is it not the case that Norway intends to participate in these framework programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1642	It is quite right that SND’s main device is linked to small and medium-sized enterprises, and it has also been an instrument in relation to it with equity. However, it is clear that equity for projects that are at least going under the «good project» vignette will often be easier to obtain than part of what is going on in order to assist start-up in a business. In the case of SND funds for the relocation of Norwegian jobs, it has been assessed, in the last half of the 1990s at least, that it was also a task for SND to assist Norwegian enterprises in an internationalisation process. It has, of course, been under the condition that it is to strengthen the business at home even here that you have had to do it. I think there are very few examples of businesses that you've moved out of trouble and bit, where the alternative was that we could have the jobs here at home. I don't get time to answer the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1651	Thank you again for your answer. It is true that in Norway we have established three different types of enterprises under state control. It is the Norwegian Export Council, which is to assist companies abroad in selling their goods to foreign markets. Then we have SIVA, a company for industrial growth, which is establishing itself both in Norway and abroad to help just Norwegian businesses. The third is the Food and Rural Development Fund of the State, and it should preferably apply to Norwegian enterprises, so that there is no scheme here to ensure that both the SIVA, SND and the Norwegian Export Council are in the same bid. Should we not have clear lines of distinction between what is SIVA's task, what is Norway's export council's task, and what is SND's role?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1658	It will often be that the tools that I have, which are 12 to 15 different levels, will sometimes have projects that are of such a nature that they go into each other. This means that several actors, such as the Export Council, the SIVA and the SND, can be involved in one and the same matter. I fully understand that questions can be asked about the foreign exposure that has been, but it has been the decision Stortinget has made unanimously when the premises for these things have been laid. A question related to this was raised with the EU Framework Programme for six to eight years, and that is quite correct. If we first go into these framework programmes, we actually commit for six to eight years. There is one thing that could, of course, be assessed and done in a number of other areas, but I think that it is primarily the Storting's own budgetary regulations that impose restrictions here. Otherwise, I can say that the tool reviews we are now doing, takes up exactly what Deepevig said, to see all the tools in one context, and that the business community is going to have one gateway, no matter what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1665	We then go back to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1671	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1674	I have the following questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs, who will answer on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: «Travel operators are obliged to join the Travel Guarantee Fund. The Managing Director of Star Tour is on the board of the Travel Guarantee Fund and thus has access to the budget, plans and turnover of its competitors. Accordingly, he/she has the possibility to carry out disposal operations which benefit his/her own activities. Will the Council propose amendments to the travel guarantee regulation to allow travel life operators to enjoy a level playing field?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1683	The composition of the board of the Travel Guarantee Fund is governed by the Travel Guarantee Regulation, which falls within the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. The current board of the Travel Guarantee Fund consists of three members: a representative of the authorities, who shall chair the Management Board representative of the consumer representative of the industry, as per today is Adm. Director of Star Tour The representative of the industry is appointed by the Norwegian Travel Association. The Board of Directors shall be prepared by a manager. The Management Board shall have access to the information relevant for the determination of matters, including, in the circumstances, information on the budget, plans and turnover of the member concerned. The members of the Management Board shall observe professional secrecy. Furthermore, there are only a few individual cases of large file volumes dealt with by the board. Most of the cases are assessed and reviewed only by the manager. Under the Regulation, there is an opportunity to appoint two additional members of the Governing Board. The Ministry of Children and Family will consider the question of the composition of the Board of the Travel Guarantee Fund in the context of future revision of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1706	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am probably not satisfied with. There is fierce competition in the tourism industry, and players must be more confident than they are today that there is real competition and that it is the best that survives. The Progress Party must now consider promoting a Document No. Eight proposals in Stortinget to amend the travel guarantee regulation. In fact, all actors have to submit information about everything, from budgets, expected production, expected results, projects they have on-going, new areas of action, etc. in the tourism sector. This is the wise rule in her. So, even if not the board, but the manager, takes most of the work for granted, the board has access to this business-sensitive information. Does not the Council of State, despite the fact that the members of the board of directors are bound by professional secrecy, mean that they are consciously or unconsciously able to make commercial disposals which may result in a competitive advantage for their own company?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1717	While the obligation of professional secrecy is a fundamental premise in such a context, it is clear that it cannot be excluded that the information is used contrary to the assumptions and that it can be said indirectly to be misused. But it's important to emphasize in this context, as I said in my first answer, that it's the industry itself that wants to be represented. It is true that it is far up to the industry even if they want to choose one of the actors. Of course, they could have opted out of taking one from a particular company and getting a more objective, outside member who would represent the entire industry as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1724	I thank the Council of State for the answer to the supplementary question. So critical votes have come from the travel industry, which is not satisfied with today's situation. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has previously stated, at least to the media, that there is a basis for looking at this. There are ways to do this, for example. by omitting information or anonymising information provided to the members of the Management Board. Does the Council of State think it might be a way to go further that one somehow anonymises the information, so that one cannot be suspected of making one's own business arrangements in such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1733	For my part, I have to say that it sounds a bit difficult to anonymise fully, that it would compensate almost for the absence of silence in the area that should be subject to silence. There is no doubt that someone who has good knowledge of the industry will also be able to see quickly who this is about. Although the tourism industry has gradually grown in Norway, it is no greater than that those with sound industry skills may be able to see who it is, and in that way, insofar as it is suspected to abuse the situation, will be able to do so in the future. Obviously there are other possibilities to get around some of these things, and one possibility is that the manager in case of perceived sensitive matters asks the organizer whether he has anything against the fact that the business director gets knowledge and insight into the matter in question. But, as I said, the basic thing is that the industry itself finds the person. They have an interest in either finding someone who can keep secrets and not abuse them, or you find a person outside their own middle.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1742	So we go to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1748	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The traffic on the E18 through Vestfold has so far increased by approx. 10 pst. If this development continues, there will already be an average of 30 000 vehicles on the two-field section between Gulli and Langåker every day in five years. There are twice as many vehicles that are required by the Road Administration for the four-field motorway. With the appropriations available today, it will take eleven years to complete this road section. What measures will the Council of State take before traffic through Westfold collapses completely?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1757	The traffic growth on the Gulli-Langåker route has been 8 pst this year. It's a very large increase. Traffic growth in the last ten years has been on about 4 pst. per 1 % years. This too is a lot. In the current programme of action 2002-2011 for the development of the main road network, priority is given at E18 in Vestfold to the extension of the four-field motorway on the Kopstad-Gulli and Langåker-Bommestad routes. The start of these two parcels is planned for the current programming period 2002–2005. These cases will be submitted to the Stortinget as soon as the necessary clarifications are available. The Gulli-Langåker section is not part of the action programme. Prioritisation of this parcel must be brought back to the national transport plan 2006–2015, to be addressed in the Spring 2004 Stortinget. There is no doubt that there is a great need to expand the E18 in Westfold. Both the high traffic and the need for a more safe road make it natural to give E18 a high priority when considering the national transport plan in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1766	They mentioned 8 pst. increase in traffic on current road billing. The truth is actually even worse. Through the northern state, the increase is 11.5 pst. And it just keeps increasing. That traffic on the E18 through Westfold will at some point collapse, as I mentioned earlier, is raised above any doubt. It is probably the most trafficked road section in the country today. Paradoxically, when parts of the E18 now have four-field standard, and people see that they come out without accidents, traffic increases, of course. On the four-field road section that is now open, there has not been a single fatal accident, and that can give anyone an aha experience. In a gender perspective, having a four-field motorway is highly socio-economic. But where the road stops, we're stuck. I am a little surprised that the Council of State does not have a longer perspective – a shorter perspective too – on how to resolve this, how to implement the plans of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1773	In my reply, I explained the location of this route, or rather the place it had not been given, in the follow-up to the transport plan. We reasonably agree that there is a need to do something at E18 in Westfold. We have good experience on the road safety side that we have built a four-field road. In the past, traffic accidents were a major problem in Westfold. Fortunately, we have seen a positive development in this way. Then we have to go step by step when we are doing road construction – so here too. But of course, I am very interested that we are going to look at the E18 as we continue to work on the further planning of the development of the E18 in Vestfold, and that we are looking at this parcel just as it was shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1782	Yes, there's a positive trend in the four-field motorway, that's right. But where there is no four-field highway, there is no positive development, perhaps rather the opposite. That the need is precarious is quite clear, and it is, as I said, just a matter of time when traffic will stop completely. And what we're doing is really just moving the cork farther and farther south, because where we go over to the two-field road, it's still stopping. I wanted to ask the Council of State a little bit about the development of bomb resolution in Westfold. The progress party is absolutely not interested in booms. But that's the other parties that are very much, and not least the Council of State's own party, as I can understand it. In Westfold, there has been a towing about the nature of the bombing and that decision is ultimately in the hands of the Council of State. I would like to ask the Council of State if she can give a little investigation about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1789	It is important to take road safety seriously, as pointed out here. And as long as we don't have a four-field highway on this whole route, as we agree that we want to, we need to constantly look at other types of measures that can ensure safety. It will be assessed on an ongoing basis both in Westfold and elsewhere, because it is absolutely right that road safety is important, and we must do what we can to ensure it. In terms of bomb placement, I don't want time to give an investigation into where the location should be. I have received a request from the county on the proposal that came from there, and I am now looking at what is available, and I am going through it in relation to the professional recommendations and guidelines that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1799	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘There are regular reporters about delays and settings of ferries on both tribal routes and other national road links. Does the Council of State think that there is sufficient financial and material capacity to prevent extensive delays and route settings, and how long is my Council of State acceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1808	The long-term objectives of the operational standard of the national road ferry services are described in St.meld. No 34 for 1992-93, Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan 1994-1997. The objectives are allocated to requirements for opening time, frequency, refurbishment and night departures. The objectives of the operational standard are designed in such a way that the main road network and other important transport routes are the best available. For a parent road connection, the objective is to achieve a maximum of 2 pst. the vehicles shall remain on the ferry berth when the ferry leaves. In 2001, 47 psts were fulfilled. of the national road ferries all these objectives. The government's goal is to improve the holiday offer. There has been significant traffic growth in ferries on occasion. Due to large cost increases in ferries in recent years, improvements in supply have to be made gradually. The increase in costs includes, inter alia: coherence with high capital costs resulting from the construction of new ferries. In 1998–2002, 22 new ferries were built. In the national transport plan 2002-2011, 15 new buildings have been added. This will increase capacity and regularity. Delays and cancellations of ferry services are related to the material situation of national road transport operations. Although the ferry fleet is renewed, all ferries – including new ones – must undergo an annual workshop period. This period is normally added to the parts of the year in which traffic is low. During these periods, some road users may experience the capacity as too small. This is normally attempted by insertion of a spare ferry or by smoking ferries inside the national ferry service. The reserve ferries serve a range of connections with different capacity needs and sizes. The budgetary situation indicates that a reserve ferry of sufficient capacity cannot be stationed for each ferry connection. Improvements to the ferry service also depend on the ability of ferry companies to improve the efficiency of their operations. Work is currently in progress to improve the efficiency of national road transport operations. The size decision on new professional transport law makes it possible to purchase ferry services through the use of tenders. This is an instrument that will be used. Experience in the use of bids in the national road haulage industry is good, and the Government assumes that further use of this form of procurement will help to improve efficiency. The benefits of this work will benefit road users in the form of a better ferry service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1819	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was quite positive. As the Council of State knows, it's not only along the whole coast, but also on the part of the coast from which I come, that this is just as it is problematic, and not least over the Bokenfjord. As we spend quite a lot of public money on holiday shelters, it is important that travellers get a good offer. For example, from Arsvågen to Mortavika, which is a tribal road, it has a waiting time of five hours – and here it is half an hour's departure. And the traffic company that transports here, said first that it was not money, and then it said that there was no ferry available. Is this good enough? In the Skudenes connection, which is also a national road ferry, which holds 20,000-30,000 inhabitants in Karmøy, ferries have been linked five to six days – twice in the fall. Not enough for travellers not to get an offer, nor do they get information about settings. Nor does the transport company get an overview of the scope. Then I would like to ask: is the Council of State doing this well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1830	First, I would like to stress that we grant more in grants to ferry operations than in many years. There has been a dramatic increase, among other things. from 1998, where it was used a little over 600 million. And now we're over $1 billion. We see this despite the fact that we're shutting down ferry services because fortunately, we're so lucky to achieve mainland connections in many places in the country. The reason we choose to spend so much money is that of course we want the best possible offer. But as I also said in my answer, we have some targets in relation to the standard of the national road ferry solutions that we are a good piece from having achieved. That means that we have a challenge in both how we use the resources we have and how we can distribute the ferries to where it is always needed. This is continuously being worked on. The Road Service, through the Road Directorate, has a special task in terms of removing and distributing these funds and ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1837	I thank you again for the answer, which was basically not an answer to whether it is good enough – that people have to wait so long. But I notice that the Council of State in the first answer pointed to an improvement in efficiency, and that supply should help with the situation. Does she think, then, that if you have done what you've started offering, you have to set reserve capacity requirements, so that people don't have to be on the pia for an hour after an hour? There are not always short routes either! If you're in Arsvågen, it's a piece to come around a shell to South Rogaland. And when it comes to efficiency, is the material used well enough? Is there enough creativity to think of wholeness in the different sections or in the different areas? What I'm essentially asking is, how will the Council of State follow up to ensure that this is better in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1846	I think these are both very relevant and important questions, because there are so many in the country who depend on holiday solutions. When we submit tenders, it is precisely for users and road users to benefit from them. And today we have the opportunity, and we're taking advantage of it, that the Road Directorate is working with the companies to look at the flexibility and maybe re-moving the ferries just to use them a better way, so that those who need it the most, get the exact ferry that's needed right there and then. We must and should add up to this also be able to take place in a bidding round. The aim of the tender is that we can get more ferry traffic and better solutions again for the money we put in. Then it's a little bit of the intention that we have the flexibility that Mr. Ausdal Starrfelt is asking for here. I accept this recording and definitely take it with me, because it's an important question. This is being worked on today, and it will be working on further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1859	This question, from the representative of Bjørgulf Froyn to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Industry who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1862	I will then ask the Minister for Industry: ‘All of Norway needs a well-developed broadband network. Several parallel networks are planned, on behalf of taxpayers, to meet the need for broadband capacity, for example: digital ground, GSM-R and MMR networks. In addition, the network capacity that companies in the industry either have or will be able to expand. The coordination gain may be high. What initiatives will the Council of State take to coordinate the deployment of broadband networks across the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1871	First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree that the country needs broadband networks. Both broadband networks and services are important to achieve ICT productivity gains and to achieve key policy objectives. Therefore, if Norway is to succeed in exploiting the opportunities offered by broadband, we need to put in place infrastructure with broadband capacity and competence to use it. There is currently a great deal of distance between how many people have the opportunity to use broadband and how many people actually do it. What is broadband needs to be seen in relation to the capacity that different types of digital services will require. Developments are in the direction of increasing the demand for bandwidth in the transmission systems. Norway currently has a multi-modal infrastructure suitable for the transmission of digital services. As a result of the regulatory change that took place on 1 January 1998, when the telecommunications market was liberalised, the development and financing of the digital communications infrastructure for market offers is initially no longer a public responsibility. Networks and services are offered by many competing players based on different technologies. Since liberalisation, operators in the electronic communications market have invested large amounts in networks that allow broadband services. A new law on electronic communications is planned to be promoted by Stortinget in spring 2003. The question is that, in addition to the expansion undertaken by market players, parallel networks are planned to be developed. Examples include GSM-R networks and digital ground nets. Here, some clarifications are needed. Firstly, it is that GSM-R is a variant of the commercial GSM standard but will be a closed communication solution for rail transport. GSM-R will also not meet the need for broadband capacity. Secondly, in the case of digital ground, Stortinget has decided that concessionaires themselves should finance the development and operation of the network. The digital ground network will primarily be a network for the transmission of television channels, but the network will also be able to provide digital services. In order to provide a basis for long-term and effective competition between equivalent parties in the electronic communications market, the greatest possible degree of infrastructure competition will be an important instrument. However, this has to be balanced against cost considerations. The development of parallel networks in the majority of the country may be cost-effective for operators in a way that does not correspond to revenue. In order to ensure the efficient use of the resources deployed in the telecommunications sector, the telecommunications regulation provides for new providers to be able to make use of existing network resources. The development of the Norwegian broadband market has gone beyond what most thought a few years ago. There are several reasons why the pace is now lower. The government is following developments closely and is monitoring this harvest of what has happened and what the development of actors is looking forward to. The government will provide a broadband message during 2003. In the process of reporting the gross domestic product, I propose that operators, experts, industry and other interested parties be involved in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1890	I thank you for your answer. I will not claim that after that answer I got more clarity about the government's bet. The point is that in a short time, big and important things, technological changes and developments have happened. In addition, the financial basis for investment in networks has changed significantly, and an important reason why the deployment of networks has no longer progressed at the pace thought, is that industry has become more involved in coordination in networks rather than in competition between networks. That is what is important, because different committees in the United Kingdom are dealing with different network systems that should perhaps benefit from coordination, because within one network there are capabilities for such coordination. According to the industry's own statement, we already have a significant amount of fiber buried. We have GSM-R networks that have the potential to be more than a closed system; we might have so much in terms of fiber that we could possibly cover the entire United States. The question will be to take an initiative to make possible the potential of today’s situation — and it will therefore require coordination. That's my starting point. My other question is, Won't the government take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1899	The questioner asks whether we want to take some initiative related to what is involved in the coordination of different networks, which, as correctly described, there are many of them. I'll try the few minutes I have at my disposal to explain some of the initiatives we've taken. A co-ordination gain can definitely be envisaged in the parallel development of GSM-R and other communication solutions. We have set up a dedicated task force to examine in particular the possibility of coordination gains in the parallel development of GSM-R and TETRA: 1st@item: inlistbox A project group has proposed this as the default common network for the emergency and emergency seats.2. In addition, a working group is in the process of assessing whether the emergency situation link should use existing commercial systems – GSM-R or UMTS – as a platform instead of TETRA.3. Although the development of the next generation of UMTS mobile networks is to be carried out on a commercial basis, coordination in the context of this network development will also be justified on the basis of socio-economic considerations. It has been notified in St.meld. No 32 for 2001-2002. If we go into this with web sharing, it has to be added that this does not have to be too extensive for competition reasons. After all, we must also have competition in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1918	One of the countries that can crown itself with success in the development of network access for the population is South Korea. One of the key prerequisites for this success is that the State has taken responsibility for the infrastructure and not just left it to the market. We have historical traditions that the state has taken responsibility for the infrastructure, and so do we in modern times. In the past, we took responsibility for the railways, for fixed telephony, for electricity. In order to take the challenge seriously, will the government not take on board the fact that now the assumptions have changed so much in a short time that it would be unprofitable for the state to allow the market to operate – and in the Stortinget, politically, did the various committees work on matters that could be coordinated?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1923	I really share what is the starting point of the questioner's annotation, because things have happened along the way. I must remind you that the policy that has been based on the last three to four years is a result of the Jagland government in its time, and to which the Stortinge joined in relation to who would be the driver of this. I also have to say when the questioner takes out South Korea, that there's a difference in substance in the first place. They skipped a technological step in South Korea by not having the regular internet, but went straight to the broadband solution. After flying helicopters across large parts of South Korea, I have seen that there is also a significant difference in geography and topography that allows for a slightly different expansion in South Korea than is the case in our dear, long-range Norway. But as I said, we're going to make a big announcement about broadband to take up these technological changes that have happened, and to be able to launch a policy for the future, which has competition, which has good coverage, and which takes into account that we should not dig down more fiber than is needed to meet the needs of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1933	I will ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘According to the information obtained, the price of the municipal examination of the application for a building permit varies from 1200 to 20,000 for the same type of application. Many builders feel that they are flogged by building fees, and the large differences seem strange. The principle of self-cost is the basis for the funding of fees for municipal services. Is there any reason to believe that some municipalities operate at fees that are contrary to this principle and will the Council recommend increased legality of charging in construction matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1942	Fees in planning and construction matters may be charged to municipalities if they have adopted a fee regulation under the Planning and Building Act § 109. The regulatory act shall not be approved by the Ministry or the State. It is correct that municipal construction costs according to the Planning and Building Act § 109 should be kept within the self-cost. Self-sufficiency may be described as the extra cost incurred by the municipality by producing a particular good or service. The fees can therefore not be higher than that they cover the costs of the municipality to deal with the construction case. However, the fee must not be calculated precisely in each case. In its regulation, the municipality may base average references. I have known for a long time that municipalities have different fees for seemingly similar construction services. Since the principle of self-sufficiency only provides that the municipality cannot charge more than the cost of providing the service, different charges need not mean that the fees are illegal. Some municipalities subsidise, inter alia: the building costs in order to reduce the establishment costs related to housing. The way you calculate your self-cost can also explain some of the differences. Having said that, I have to point out that the various fees cannot in all cases be explained in the circumstances I mentioned above. Too high a level of fees could lead to a reluctance of action holders to apply for or notify the measure to the municipality, so that the municipality has less control over the follow-up to plans, construction measures, etc. High fees also increase the cost of construction, which the Government is committed to countering. Just because I have responded to the different and high fees, I have decided that the department will provide further guidance on the determination of the local authorities' fees in a circular. Here the department points to, among other things: the importance of the rational differentiation of charges between municipalities. Verification of the legality of the fee regulations or specific fee decisions of municipalities may be one way of preventing illegal fees. However, I believe that it is most appropriate to consider the need for law enforcement until after the guidance has been given for a while. Finally, it may also be mentioned that the Office for Building Law, which was appointed earlier this year, has a mandate to examine the fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1958	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Actually, once again I mention municipal building property fees, there are several reasons. But this time my question focuses more on the role of the county council as a law enforcement officer, the relationship with the principle of self-sufficiency and legal certainty for the citizens, so that no higher fees are paid than what the law actually provides. For example, in the municipality of Arendal, a builder was charged $18,000 in a municipal handling fee for a building application. He complained about this to the county for legality control, but the county council did not carry out any such checks, as he thought there was no reason to do so. It does not show that the system of legality control does not actually work in practice and does not provide the legal certainty that it is intended to provide to those who feel exposed, for example. as in this case, excessive fees on the part of the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1967	So it is possible for the county to do so by means of the municipal law § 59 nr. 3 to review individual decisions taken by local authorities with regard to the legality of decisions, whatever the other type of authorisation. That possibility exists, as has been said today. The Ministry has the opportunity to review the legality of municipal decisions. We have delegated that authority down to the statesmen. In that case, what you have to assess is not the amount of the individual fee, but whether the size of the municipal fee regulation is correct or not, precisely because it is not considered that the individual fee should reflect the costs of the individual case, but that there should be an average consideration relating to the case and the case type field as such as how much it should cost. For example, it will. be such that complaints by neighbours may lead to a more procedural approach. Do we want the neighbor's complaints to impose increased costs on the builder?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1976	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have no doubt that the Council of State has good intentions in this matter, and I look forward to her continuing her work on this. But it is clear that when we look at the variation in the fees and the size of these – in this case construction matters, in fact, from 0 to 22 000-23 000 kroner – it is clear that people are responding. We can imagine that if something so banal as that a litre of milk would vary in price from NOK 10 to NOK 150, I think some studies have been carried out. So this people think is very strange. With regard to what was said, that the department is working with guidelines, as I understood, to establish some criteria and principles for what is self-cost, I would like to follow up on asking the Council of State: When has she thought that this circular can go out to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1985	I just want to say it this way: I don't think we should think that it's more strange that construction fees vary from 0 to 22,000 kroner in municipalities than that it can actually vary from 0 for a municipal plot to that you might pay maybe 1 million. kr for a plot in the municipality of Oslo. As long as we regulate that the fees should not exceed the costs, the municipal freedom to subsidise is present. But when it comes to the question of the circular, it's a circular that we've now had a legal review of the so-called development agreements. In this respect, we have also gone through the principle of self-sufficiency related to fees, in order to clarify it. It is supposed to come out quite soon, before Christmas. The work plan is week 47. I dare not guarantee that it will be week 47. There may be different things, but before Christmas this circular will be out. After it has worked for a while, I think we should assess whether practice continues to interfere with the setting of construction fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e1995	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Several Jær municipalities now experience extended care tasks as a result of faster outsourcing of patients from hospitals. Is this a change the Government has approved, and where the Council of State will see to it that the municipalities receive funds in accordance with new tasks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2004	In general, I would like to stress that it is an important principle that there should be consistency between the tasks of municipalities and their resources. Changes in tasks are therefore an important part of the basis for the establishment of the annual financial framework for the local government sector. However, with regard to the specific issue raised by the representative, there have been no formal changes in the division of tasks between the specialist health service and the municipalities. I have also been confirmed through the Ministry of Health that there have been no new signals from the Health West Regional Health Agency to the individual hospitals in this region about faster discharges of patients. However, if many municipalities in the future experience an increased need for municipal care services as a result of a faster discharge from hospitals, there is a problem that we need to get back to, for example. in the context of consultations between the State and the local government sector. As a basis for such discussion of these issues, good evidence will be needed from local authorities on the basis of actual developments in this area. Municipalities in the Akershus area have also previously addressed this issue with the Ministry of Local Affairs, as they have felt that the hospital in their neighbourhood has had a different practice than hospitals elsewhere in the country. However, if we are to have a general discussion of this, it must be done through the consultation mechanism, where the local government sector, through its representatives, the Municipal Councils, addresses the issue, and with clear evidence of the need to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2015	In Jærbladet on 11 October, the Health and Social Manager of Hå and representatives of the health services in Klepp have been referred to. All report that their experiences from the last year are both faster outsourcing from hospitals and that other patient groups than before are being outsourced for treatment locally. Let me underline: the centre party is too short a lay time in hospitals where there is a medical defense team. We also welcome the fact that more people will need follow-up in their own local environment where it is possible to do so, but such a development should not be done by tacitly accepting that new tasks will be added to the municipalities without the necessary resources being provided. In this way, I consider the Council of State's answer to be positive, that this is something it will also look at more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2020	We will do that, but I think the initiative should be in the municipal sector, that you get your own representative to take this up as part of the consultation system we have and maybe also document and cover this to see if this is a national trend or if there can be special conditions here. It could be that there has been a large amount of some types of patients right now in this area. As I said, there have been no policy signals about changing policies from Health West to hospitals and businesses, so it is not because of a new conscious policy by the hospital owner. I'm not going to hide that it may be that hospitals are conducting a different practice, just to free up capacity also because of the need that there are still people on the waiting list. Although, fortunately, the waiting lists for treatment in Norway have been drastically reduced in the last year, there is a need to use hospital capacity to provide even more treatment. Of course, we will ensure that the municipalities do not have additional costs related to such a change, but the play-out should then be in the use of the consultation mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2027	In this area, there is a proposal for a question that involves tightening the alert time between hospitals and municipalities when it comes to outsourcing time, and there is also a proposal to lift the daily fines. Then I understand the council so that this is something Health Stavanger in this case has approached. There's something that should be clarified from the central hold. I also understand that she agrees that the municipalities in order to build up the necessary professional skills, to secure sufficient personnel and to have the necessary time for planning, should go through the formal roads through the Municipal Councils' Central Association and take this into consideration for patients and relatives, but also, of course, for the other tasks to be performed by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2032	I would like to stress that the question of shorter alert times is another question than the question of the level of treatment for the patient actually being printed. It is probably true that there has been work on regulations where the alert time has been reduced somewhat, and that it is also done by the Ministry of Health and with the agreement of the Ministry of Health, but it is not an attempt at the interface with regard to the type of patients being printed when. The issue of shorter alert times should perhaps be discussed more closely with the local government in relation to the problems they face, but the question of the interface between the type of patients added to the care services and not to the treatment institutions is a different question than the question of the alert time itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2040	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: ‘The Council of State has previously expressed a positive opinion on the establishment of civilian routes from Rygge. Civil air traffic from Rygge is one of the most demanding measures in the business world in Eastfold, and it is important that it contributes to a rapid and positive handling of the case. As you know, the Ministry’s working group has now set up its Master Plan for Rygge Civil Airport. When can it be expected that the Council of State has clarified the aspects of this master plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2049	I will first start by saying thank you for the question, not least because it gives me an opportunity to make a positive clarification. The Ministry of Defence has not properly set up any working group to deal with this matter, as the question suggests, but we have in a positive dialogue with Rygge Civil Airport, supported by the Air Force and Defence Construction, as far as possible tried to contribute to the design of the framework conditions for Rygge Civil Airport to proceed with the project to other relevant authorities. At a number of state airports it has been for a number of years both military and civil air traffic. We have good experience with that. It has been implemented by the fact that air defence airstations and civil airports have separated areas, often on each side of the runway, as we know from Banak, Bodø, Værnes and Torp. Previously, the operations of the Air Force did not provide room for any civil airport at Rygge. It was not until February 1999 that the then Minister for Defence, Mr Färvoll, found that there were no longer operational reasons for not opening up the market for civil traffic. On the basis of a concept developed by Rygge Civile Airport, the defense said it was positive to establish a civil airport west of the runway with direct access from E6. In retrospect, it has been examined whether there could be other alternatives to the location of the civil airport. However, these studies have established that the only area in question for a civil airport is in the area where it was first proposed to be developed, i.e. west of the runway and south of the control tower. As the questioner quite rightly mentions, Rygge Civile Airport AS presented on 1 November this year a master plan for the development of civil airport at Rygge. This has been developed in close dialogue with the Ministry of Defence, the Air Force and Defence, and I think it is gratifying that the facts relating to the Defence as the landowner and operationally responsible for Rygge Airport have now been clarified. What remains for Rygge Civile Airport is to obtain the necessary building permits from other authorities, such as the building authorities, as well as clarify regulatory issues, obtain the necessary emission permits from the environmental authorities and in addition obtain the necessary concessions and operating permits from the aviation authorities. Applications must be made to the respective authorities. The defense has no direct impact on these questions, but I am therefore satisfied that the questions we have influence over are now considered positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2066	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State said, a number of issues have now been clarified in connection with this master plan. I disagree with what the Council of State says, that the defence no longer has a direct impact on these conditions. One of the crucial elements of the master plan is the design of an interim solution, so that civil services can be put in place as early as autumn 2003. So my supplementary question is, how will the Council of State help to realize this interim solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2073	The defence will in a number of areas contribute to and support under the wishes of Rygge Civile Airport to get started as soon as possible. First, as the landowner, we want to rent out and possibly sell the necessary reason for RSL on commercial terms. We will also be operationally responsible for the aero-operative common areas. Then we have to establish an agreement on fire, rescue and local services, and we have to establish a distribution of costs so that the use of the civil airport does not entail costs for the defence. In terms of temporary solutions, or interim solutions, we have said that we are willing to discuss when fixed plans for the final solution are available. We have also said that in order to give RSL the opportunity to expand the project step by step, the Defence Military Organisation will be willing to contribute resources such as the use of vacant platforms for the parking of aircraft and the use of de-icing platforms, in order to assist in the start-up of the business as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2080	I thank you again for the answer. As is understood by the plan drawn up, and also the initial response of the Council of State, it is obvious that regulatory conditions are essential to start the first permanent construction steps at Rygge Civile Airport. As also the Council of State was in, it is the defence that is the foundation of these areas, and as I see it, it is natural that the defence engages in the regulatory process. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the defence prioritizes involvement in regulatory work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2089	As I was in my previous answer, the defense in a number of areas wants to be a supporter of the RSL. It's also true that the defense is the landowner, but we prefer either renting out or selling land to RSL on commercial terms. We therefore do not believe it is natural for the defence to seek from the local regulatory authorities the reregulation of the civil airport area. We find it natural that Rygge Civil Airport does itself. However, as the master plan has been drawn up in close contact with the Defence, we have no objections to the plans that have been outlined. However, we feel that it is natural for the builder, or the stakeholder here, to be given co-responsibility for any local debate that might come under cover of the plans being promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2096	Questions Nos 28 and 29 have been dealt with in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-06.ana.ud2462e2107	There is no record.
