ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e28	It is the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy that provides for the Government to submit an annual notification of the follow-up to the decisions concerning the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg containing a request to the Government and the examination of private proposals submitted to the Government for examination and opinion. It is this big message that we now have to deal with. As part of its examination of the matter, the Committee forwarded the various examination and request decisions to the Scientific Committees of the Grand Duchy for an opinion. Furthermore, the Committee decided to address the Prime Minister’s Office for further information on the follow-up to some of the issues raised in the Communication. It is a very broad majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, which are united on most of the comments. It's a pleasure. However, for the simple reason that there is a significant number of individual decisions mentioned, it would be far too far to explain the individual majority comments. On the points in which the Committee shares a majority and a minority, it is primarily the Progress Party which has its own specific comments. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I shall be careful, in my speech on the matter, to polemise against a minority in the Committee before this minority has been given the opportunity to justify its specific comments. That being said, I must admit that it is very tempting. But the representative Hagen has not been able to lead me into temptation. It's enough of the others that have remained in recent times. At today's meeting of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the Workers' Party's Group pointed out that in an incubation, for which they themselves took responsibility, they had been harmed to end the majority comment with the Right and Christian People's Party under point 2.1.1.1. on page 2 of the vote – the key word is 'North Sea Diving Alliance'. They signaled that instead they intended to stand with the Progress Party and SV, which I have made aware of. The majority of the Committee notes that the annual wholesale notification concerning the request and investigation decisions of the previous merger session is an important part of Storting’s ability to control the follow-up of this type of case by the Government. The Committee is of the opinion that the way this matter is brought forward by the Government needs to be changed for the future in order to make it easier for the Storting to deal with the matter. The investigative and request decisions must be sorted either by the name of the proposers or by the committee rather than, as at present, by numerical order. Otherwise, I refer you to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e47	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e50	I have a fundamental question for the committee's Vice-Chairman. It is true that in many political issues that are being dealt with here in the United Kingdom, it may be a rather tough political struggle, and it is true that a majority after a debate and a decision celebrates that they have won through having a decision on the matter they may have worked for too long. Then it should be that when the Stortinget has taken a decision, it is a relatively simple and straightforward matter that that decision is to be implemented by the Government – there are many big business representatives who actually go around and believe that it is! But a careful review of St.meld. No 4 shows that it's not like that. I have the following fundamental questions: does the Vice-Chairman of the Committee agree that when the Storting has taken a concrete decision with an instruction to the Government, the implementation of the decision will take place? Does he agree that it is not acceptable with, for example, a statement back to the Stortinget that the Ministry will assess whether to implement the Decision, whether to address the issue contained in the Decision, or whether to comment only or address the issue contained in the Decision in a subsequent notification or proposition? When I ask that, it's because I've actually been in that error, and it's still that in our system it's so that once the Stortinget has made a decision, government and administration are going to implement the decision. Does the Vice-Chair of the Committee share the principle of what I have referred to here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e59	There's probably a lot of things that can be elevated to principles. What I have first of all recorded is that the representative Hagen has as a guiding principle in his political work, is that he has a desire to practice big business for the absurd in some situations. I have the principle that the Government should of course implement decisions, but many of these decisions are such that they are not operational in their form and require a preparation and an investigation that makes things take time. I assume that after walking around these corridors for almost 30 years and dreaming of becoming a staging president, the representative Hagen might start to get tired of things taking time. But it's probably necessary to spend some time on some of these decisions. On some points the majority of the committee also seems to take too long. We've commented on that in particular. I feel that there is fairly good progress on the matters that have actually gathered a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e66	That was a strange answer, I think, as the representative had on the question that Hagen asked, whether to comply with the decisions that Stortinget has taken. He went out on – I was about to say – a series of explanations as to why you don't mean it. I'll ask you a direct question. Let's take one of the decisions mentioned in this big message, which is under point 2.1.1. of the position, concerning the North Sea divers, which the representative himself had in mind in his introduction to the Workers' Party in the event of an incurrency being in the wrong place. I'm glad you've now fallen in the right place. Does the representative not think that once the Stortinget has made such a clear decision as what was being made, the Government must also follow the decision taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e73	Of course, once we have examined the individual decisions in this matter, we have had to deal significantly with the written documentation and answers we have received to questions that have been asked. In the case of the specific individual matter referred to by the representative Nesvik, it was available, inter alia: a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Administration dated 31 August last year, i.e. under the responsibility of the previous government, where it stands, inter alia.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Ministry has been in dialogue with the North Sea Diving Alliance to arrive at an appropriate project that can be supported. We are now awaiting a formal application from the North Sea Diving Alliance." We have taken this into account as an important element of the position, as well as the response of the new Minister of Labour and Administration to the Committee. So maybe there's a slightly different perception of how a decision is to understand, what is the intention, and what is put into it, but we have to relate to the written documentation we get, all the time we weren't involved in the debate and don't know what was the intention of the proposers. We have at least taken into account what is stated in the written documentation. Something else will be difficult. Then there will be a lot of vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e85	Engeset had an interesting assessment in his reply to the reply to Hagen. I assume that Engeset agrees that the Government is the executive body and not the Stortingen – so the Storting must have a executive body to get its decisions put into practice. When Engeset mixes this with what he calls the ‘fundamental business’, it must certainly have something to do with which decisions are taken and the representatives of the big business choose to vote for, not whether or not decisions are to be implemented. Or is it really so simple that Engeset believes that as long as his own party sits in government, can the Norwegian government on a free basis train or not implement the decisions that you do not find appropriate or desirable at any time? Or is it that Engeset actually sees that his own government here also has to take over the Norwegian constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e90	Martin Engeset will wait to answer. Then we move on to the next replicate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e95	The representative Engeset gives me concerns, because if the answer he now gave to the representative Hagen is representative of the Government's view of the Storting, we have a big, fundamental problem. In fact, democracy is in jeopardy. If, on an independent basis, a government makes a decision each time the Storting decides whether to investigate, whether to set up a committee or whether to set down a sample to work on it for one year, two years, three years, four years without allowing the Storting to conduct policy by decision on any basis, I am very concerned. That's why my question to Engeset is, is it that big business is negative? Or is it that the Enset simply wants the Storting to fall under the government's arms in all kinds of management issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e100	When I argue for the majority position of the committee in this matter, it is on behalf of the majority and the Right Group. When it comes to my view of big business, I think it's slightly different from how others can define that term. I believe a lot of the germ of disagreement lies in the fact that the representatives of the Progress Party have a very basic and different understanding of how the division of labour between big business and government should be. That's what I think the lines so far have proved to be. The rest of the debate will probably also show that you want a completely different division of labour from what has been a tradition for many years. I think we're just going to assume that that's the way it is. But at least it is gratifying to note that there is a broad majority in the committee who are united on most of the comments. I think the representative, Mr Sandberg, can reduce his concern to a considerable extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e110	I will repeat my fundamental question to the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, who did not respond to it after my first line. He actually replied that we need to be very patient and that it could take time to implement decisions. That's not what my question was about. It was a matter of principle, that once the Storting has made a decision, it is actually going to be implemented. No assessment by the government shall be made. In several of the cases referred to in the Innst. S. No 170, it appears that different governments in different letters respond to the Storting that they will consider whether or not to promote the proposal that the Stortinget has ordered the government to make. I can mention the decision relating to Norwegian cultural memory funds. On 12 October 2000, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to ‘promote proposals for the creation of Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund in its own proposal in the autumn of 2000’. It was after a thorough debate and after treatment in committee. Then it became a decision to set up a Norwegian cultural memory fund, according to a number of guidelines that were, of course, in the committee position. Now we are in 2002, and no such proposals have been promoted by any government. Does the Engeset agree to approx. two to three years in order to achieve a result of a thorough landfill treatment is not acceptable? It is also a decision to set up a clean-up fund for the environment to deal with environmental clean-up expenditure. A concrete decision was taken. So there's the government on page 11: ‘In this context, the Government will also consider in more detail the question of a possible fund to clean up past environmental sins.’ The Decision provided for the promotion of «proposals for the establishment of a clearing-up fund in cooperation between the authorities and business». It's this kind of thing I'm talking about, where a decision is crystal clear and the government is actually answering back that it has not intended to follow it up. Does the Consent agree with the principle of the distribution between the accumulation and the government, that when the Storting has taken a decision, is it the executive's duty to implement the decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e122	Carl I. Hagen's principle is easy as far as it goes. As long as the decision of the Storting is clear, concrete and operational, completed and only to implement, the matter is fairly straightforward. However, a number of these decisions, after being in Stortinget, require thorough preparation, evaluation and investigation before they can be implemented. Many of these matters have been shown to be complete. That's why it's not quite as simple as Carl I. Hagen, who's been in opposition for 30 years, thinks that you can just pinch and believe that a decision can be implemented the day after a decision is taken. When e.g. The question of the cultural memory fund is thus mentioned, notes the majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, that ‘The Government announces that a proposal for the establishment of a cultural memory fund will be presented in the autumn of 2002 in the context of the 2003 budget and is pleased that the decision of the Storting can be implemented in this context’. So let's say that. We think that's pretty much all right. The decision will be implemented, but things must of course be prepared. I don't think we should make this more difficult than it is, and don't read any letter and any formulation that a certain man reads a certain book, as was said in a previous debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e134	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e137	It is important for the role-sharing between the magnification and the government that it is clear that the decision-making process will be implemented. In this context, St.meld is. No 4 an important tool to make the status of the issues that have been dealt with in the Storting. It is important to be able to review matters systematically, so that the Storting can exercise its control function and ensure that cases are not coached or overlooked by those who are set to follow up the cases. In this year's report, as the rapporteur has explained, there are a number of matters that have been delayed or lacking in follow-up, and there are comments relating to each case. I would also like to stress that it is Storting's intention to be followed up in such a way that the Government's design of regulations and follow-up of decisions is in line with the intention of Stortinget. The clear division of labour also makes clear demands for Storting's own consideration of this type of proposal. It requires that we be precise in the decisions taken, that we have to have an overview of the economic impact of decisions to the extent that they are clear and not just a request for investigation, and that the type of issues are made visible as the basis for the decision. It is also necessary that realistic deadlines should be set in relation to the follow-up to be carried out by the Government as a wholesaler. What is a bit special about this year's announcement is that we have had a change of government since the decisions were taken. Thus, those who were in opposition in the previous period – or at least part of them – now have questions from the opposition in the Storting as to why they have not followed up decisions that they themselves voted for. It could be a useful experience. The fact that there is now a Right-dominated government to follow up decisions that were partly initiated by the same parties in the opposition, naturally leads to the current government in some cases likely to get the feeling of meeting itself at the door. It underlines the need for accountability in relation to the use of the powerful instrument it is when the Storting instructs the Government. For us in the Workers' Party, it has always been important that we practice our opposition life in such a way that we can live up to the decisions we may have made, if we are left with government responsibility. It is in a democratic system that the opposition can sit there suddenly with government responsibility and must follow up decisions they have taken. What is special about this position is in many ways much stronger criticism by the Progress Party of points to which the majority have also made critical remarks. For the purpose of the division of roles, it is important to give due consideration to the proposals involving an instruction by the Government. We have tried from the Labour Party to show restraint and try to have a high threshold with regard to that type of proposal. When the Progress Party here has a number of sharper comments than the Committee else has, it may be that the lack of government experience that is the case for the Progress Party is one of the reasons why there are many proposals from the Progress Party and more criticism. For the treatment of Inster. S. No 325 for 2000-2001 in June 2001, the Progress Party, in addition to the requirements adopted in relation to the Government, mentioned in this document, had a further 16 proposals for decisions to impose on the Government the implementation of various cases. And, as I said, I think maybe lack of government experience can be some of the reasons for that. I do not want to go as far as the rapporteur in characterising the attitude and intentions of the Progress Party, but I would say that it may indicate that the Progress Party has a significantly lower threshold than other current opposition parties in order to instruct the Government. And, as I said, I think maybe the lack of government experience of the Advance Party could be some of the reasons for that. Just in relation to this type of proposal, it might have been an advantage for the treatment in Stortinget if the Progress Party had had government experience, but for all other practical purposes and for the Norwegian people, I think it is an advantage if that party is still without government experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e155	I think it was very interesting that Dag Terje Andersen had some principal views. I am very much in agreement with his views and find it reassuring to clarify that it will never happen that the Workers' Group is in favour of a proposal for a decision which they are not fully prepared to implement in government, and that there is a quality assurance every time the Workers' Party votes in favour of a proposal for a decision. It will be very interesting when we come to the next report, in a year's time, when there are some decisions that the Workers' Party has co-existed with the Progress Party. We will then see together whether the government that had to sit then has implemented them or not. I expect support for some of the fundamental points of view. And I would like to ask if it is such that, at least in the case of the proposals the Labour Party has voted in favour, and which has become a decision of major importance, Dag Terje Andersen has the principle view that then it is the government and the administration's task to implement the decision. I understand that he places the list differently for other batches that may make decisions. But is it so that where the Workers' Party is involved in contributing to a big decision, he agrees with the principle, that then it is the function and role of the government to implement the decision and not to say that we will come back to it in six months or one year, we will find out whether it might be possible to talk, and a lot of bureaucratic talk, which means you won't follow it? That's a very important question. So mentions Dag Terje Andersen Progress Party's lack of government experience. She can do that. In fact, the Progress Party may also be more concerned with some constitutional questions and control functions than the other parties are. It is on the initiative of the Progress Party that we have this communication for the second time, and this is the first time that it has been properly dealt with in the Stortinge, and it is solely because of the initiative of the Progress Party. Could that be the case, I would like to ask Dag Terje Andersen that it may also be that, in fact, we think it is more important to establish the different constitutional and parliamentary roles that the government has, that when the Storting has taken a decision, it is a task for the government to implement it? And if the government does not want to and does not have the intention to implement a proposal that comes about voting, should a responsible state council tell the Stortinget before voting that it is not intended to be implemented if the Stortinget still takes such a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e162	I started my post by saying that I believe it is important for the clarification of the role-sharing between the magnificence and the government that decisions taken in the Stortinget are followed up by the Government. I did not mention in the context of the decision taken with the support of the Workers' Party, I mentioned the decision taken by the Stortinget at all. There's no difference whether we've voted in favour or not. And there should also be no difference between a sitting in government or in opposition, in relation to the principle of the distribution of power that we have. But then I can't say the bastard that any decision can only be followed up by being put into practice. In fact, we take some decisions to investigate things and to look at the consequences of any proposals. There are a number of proposals requiring interested parties to be given the opportunity to comment through consultation or other means of impact assessment. What I think is wrong is if the government is obviously on a political basis training a political desire from the Storting without putting the power it has at its disposal, in the process of following up the decision. I think that should be a common position either – as I said – in government or in opposition. To the extent that it is designed to change that kind of political conclusion, it should be done through elections and political decisions and not through the training of the Government. And as I said, it applies regardless of whether the Workers' Party has voted in favour or against the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e171	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e174	This is, as I mentioned in the line change now, the first time the Storting really tries to go through St.meld. No So 4, which is the government's implementation and follow-up of big business decisions. Let me first say that I'm glad that we got this change in the system a few years ago, so that in the Stortinget we're not just concerned about seeing how it goes with proposals that were previously sent without a motion for reality, where we've had a response to the Stortinget for years. But we have had no feedback to Stortinget on how the Stortinget decisions are implemented. It's nice that we've had this change, which we took the initiative a few years ago. The examination of this communication itself also shows, as the rapporteur mentioned, the need to ask for the notification to be prepared in a slightly different way. It should almost be believed that the message is set up so that it is most difficult for the Storting to get it processed, because the decisions are sorted in numerical order. They are not organised by the individual committees. You have to go through all the decisions yourself to see which parties voted in favour and against. It would be natural for those who have contributed to a decision making process to be the most prepared to ensure that it is implemented. I am pleased that we have made a change in the configuration here – unanimously – requested. So to the principle, which is absolutely crucial for constitutional and parliamentary issues, namely the division of roles between big business and government. This debate also has a third factor – it is not just government-to-growth ratio, but it is also the political relationship with government. There are a lot of people who walk around and expect that when the Stortinget makes decisions, they will be implemented. I lived in that error for very many years, until I began to research and take a little interest in looking through this. When the Stortinget had made a decision, I received training from Guttorm Hansen in the old days, it was completed. This was also the case in the past – and it remembers Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik well from the late 1970s and early 1980s – that when there were majority remarks in the polls, they were carried out by government councils or by the ministry. It was like that. That's why more than I should be a little worried when we systematically start to see how big decisions are followed up. If we started to have a systematic overview of the majority comments of the committees to see if they were followed up, I am convinced that very many representatives of big business would be shocked at how little account is taken of majority comments. Institutionally, a government is not obliged to take into account majority comments – that is clear. Politically, parliamentaryly, it would usually be an advantage to do so, because disregarding majority comments could have parliamentary consequences. But when it comes to decisions, I thought it was relatively okay, until I, as probably the only big-time representative, read throughout St.meld. No 4, and then see how this is done. I have picked out a number of examples – I could pick out a lot more – where there is a basis for critical comments regarding the follow-up of decisions by the Government. That's why I tried to get a majority or unanimity in the committee on some fundamental points of view. In fact, I think it is alarming – very alarming – that it is only the Progress Party that says that it is not acceptable that ‘the relevant department in several contexts informs that it will return to the major decisions in subsequent documents to the Stortinget’. There is nothing for a number of decisions on how to implement them — it is said that ‘will return’ to it. We also write in our notes at the outset: ‘These members therefore consider it appropriate to stress that, when the Stortinget has taken a concrete decision with an instruction to the Government, the implementation of the decision is to take place. In this context, it would be natural for the necessary steps to be taken to implement the Decision shortly after the adoption of the Decision.» This is just the Progress Party that means. That's what I think is alarming. It is also alarming that when Stortinget takes a decision, nothing from the Ministry will happen in some contexts before the Prime Minister's office asks how the Ministry has followed up the decisions, and then there will be one joint letter to the Prime Minister's office that concerns many decisions – and often it seems that nothing has happened since the decision. Most people would think that when the Stortinget makes a decision, a few days after it is notified to the Department of the Stortinget, the department will decide how it will be implemented. A careful review of St.meld. No 4 shows that that's not how it happens. We continue to write alone: ‘It is not acceptable, for example, with an indication back to Stortinget that the Ministry will assess the question, investigate the question or comment or address the issue in a subsequent notification or proposition. Once a concrete decision has been taken by the Storting, it is the implementation which is the responsibility of the Government and the implementation should also take place without undue delay and/or in accordance with possible deadlines’. These are fundamental points of view. I note with great amazement that these fundamental points of view are the subject of the Progress Party alone. I mentioned that, in addition to the ratio of government to government, there is also a relationship with government. I had the pleasure of attending the Prime Minister's lecture to the anniversary of the Polytechnic Association in Oslo City Hall a short time ago, where he initially referred to a conversation between Sir Humphrey and the secretary, where Sir Humphrey asked the secretary: now the Prime Minister has become Prime Minister, he is well and has fine working conditions, what more should he be interested in? The secretary said, "Yes, but perhaps he will also rule the country?" And then Sir Humphrey said something like this: Free and keep me, how would it go if the Prime Minister and the politicians were to overthrow the country? Speaking of the relationship with the administration, the Prime Minister confirmed very clearly that this was not the case in Norway. I put a question mark on it – and I come back to it. It is also the case that we need to look at the extent to which the administration is doing its best to comply with the decisions and policies of the government, and the extent to which the administration, our bureaucracy in the departments, lives its own life and wants to govern according to what it thinks is right, and, as far as possible, wants to cut off the political authorities from intervening in its governance of the country. There is a lot of humor in these issues, but there are also quite a lot of bone-hard realities, and I think the political environment in Norway should also take a little inward. It seems several times – and there are a lot of examples, as can be seen from the setting – as if the Council of State has almost not read through the letters before the departments send them to the Stortinget with the signature of the Council of State. It is promised to do so and within that period and within that period, something that is then broken completely sovereign – unfortunately something got in the way, they could not carry it out. It's just to read the setting, where we've pointed out a number of places in our remarks that the deadlines that the departments themselves set are not kept, and what you're notifying you of coming back to, that doesn't happen. So let me look at a couple of the decisions. First, a single decision of 13 June 2001, Decision No. 613: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up its own working party to carry out the duties and functions of the responsible and outlawed command in the future defence.’ It says the Ministry of Defence will be made in the autumn of 2001 in the first letter. Probably to great surprise in the department – because it is used to no reminders of their information, but takes it for granted that they are followed – the Committee asks on 30 January 2002: Is this now done according to the forecast, in the autumn of 2001? Then we get the answer: the working group was supposed to be set up in the autumn of 2001, but it is somewhat delayed. We still don't know if this is done, a year later. It's the sleddrian that state councils should point out. In particular, in the case of defence, three such decisions have not been followed up in accordance with what was provided for. However, when the defence itself wanted to amend the decisions on the defence structure proposal, five sub-groups were set up last December, all of which were completed by the end of January with a major effort to ensure a rematch on the defence structure, i.e. not to implement the Stortinge decision of 14 June. Decision No. of major importance was a decision of principle. 618: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a status-enforcement measure for defence officers.’ It's not followed up. The government says to ‘examine’ it, and the outcome of the investigation is to be presented. There are proposals for state-of-the-art measures The size has requested – the principle that we should have some state-of-the-art measures for guardians, the size has decided. The measures – the choice between them and the recommendations – will be taken. That's not what the government does in the answers it's given to the Storting. All other parties are satisfied that they do not follow the decision they have voted for. The same applies to a decision which I assume the Progress Party voted against, namely Decision No. 735: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a state-funded escalating plan for the construction of cheap rental dwellings, student housing and low-income housing for first-time start-ups in the State budget for 2002.’» Two governments really argue why this is a stupid decision, and they have no plans to implement it. Then I think the government could be so clear that it proposed to repeal the decision, so that it did not stand up as a decision that has no intention of following up. The cultural memory fund was promoted – a relatively simple and straightforward matter. Two-and-a-half years, as far as I can see, it is used to get this done, after the Storting has dealt with the question of whether it is a cultural memory fund that is going to take care of and finance the preservation of cultural memories. Why does it have to take two years? And why is the majority happy with the follow-up? We have a big problem with understanding that. The same applies to the clean-up fund. This is a major political debate. Adopted on 7 June. 488, sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to examine different models and to submit proposals for setting up a clean-up fund in cooperation between the authorities and business. The Fund shall be used to clean up old environmental sins/remove environmental contaminants from nature.» It was a great victory for those who voted in favour. Finally, an environmental fund was to be set up, and money was to be given. It was not said about how much, it had to come back to, but it was supposed to be a fund that was going to take care of and clean up old environmental sins. It was a great victory for the environmental movement. The letter of 31 August 2001 from the Stoltenberg Government states: ‘In this context, the Government will also consider in more detail the question of a possible fund to clean up past environmental sins.’ They have absolutely no intention of implementing it; they shall consider whether it is possible to be a fund. But it has been decided by the Storting! There was a debate in Stortinget on that. It was a setting that meant it. Why, then, should we discuss it again? It is implementation that is totally lacking. So to the most famous, which is a repetition of the Storting, Decision No. 722 15 June 2001: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure the practice of the coordination law so that no one can lose out on having earned pension points in the social security system.’ It was adopted with the voices of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and some from the Center Party. So it was a decision. And the decision is relatively simple. It comes after many years of fighting and many years of ‘coming back and forth’ with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Stortinget, where it has been said many times from the Department that it is very difficult to do this. They can't do it. I wish we had had an adult state council at the time who could get some advisers who could come up with what solution would be legally feasible to get it implemented, but it was post-delivery. The fundamental question is, shall any person lose the pension because they have earned the people's money? So, because they've been working and earning up popular money, they're going to lose and get less pension as a result of it. That's terrible! It's totally monstrous. But it looks like it's completely impossible to get politicians from other parties who sometimes say that they agree with us to do something about it, because they leave this to a few in the Ministry of Social Affairs, who have taken over power here, both in terms of government and greatness. Here I would like to make a comment to the Labour Party, which has opposed this decision. In the world's history today, it says whether the Jens Stoltenberg programme has announced pensions: ‘The programme states that Ap will implement a pension reform with a view to making the system more equitable.’ It also states that the pension credit scheme for care work, introduced in 1992, will have retroactive effect. It is strange that in the scheme providing pension credits for care work, it has the power to avoid coordination problems with negative effects. They get the benefit of it. But those who have worked and received exactly the same points, i.e. earned pension credits in the form of paid work – not in the form of care, but paid work, and earned points – they get less pension than they would have received if they had not had paid work. I wish the Workers' Party could explain to us why this injustice of losing money on raising pension funds in the People's Security System is fair. You're punished because you've earned a lot of people's money. The Ministry claims something quite different from Professor Kjønstad, who led the Coordination Committee, who stated in the evening post on 30 May 2001 that this was completed by the Coordination Committee and that the ball was with the politicians. We took that ball, and we made a decision that is not being implemented. But the department says, ‘The decision cannot be followed administratively, but requires legal amendment.’ Why, then, does the ministry not come up with proposals for the necessary legislative amendment if they respect the decision of the Storting? No, nothing's happening. And then it says that the decision "can't be followed up administratively, but requires changes in the law". And then I have a question, also to the Prime Minister, from which I received a letter today. For I have asked to know: Which of our top lawyers is what has said that this cannot be done in the form of a regulation? It is clear to me that when a government does not implement a decision taken by the Stortinget in plenary because it claims that it requires a change in the law, then the jam that government must have good legal opinion as the basis for such a claim. It is not available. There is an investigation on some other issues before the plenary decision of the Grand Duchy changed the legal situation in this area, for the Grand Duchy may also take decisions in plenary with legal effects. The investigation by the government attorney is old-fashioned and has nothing to do with the matter after the Stortinget has taken its plenary decision. I therefore expected that after there had been a relatively strong correspondence between the party's big group and various social ministers, and finally the Prime Minister, at least the respect for a decision to raise the issue of back coverage for a claim that it was not possible to do so. I asked the Prime Minister the question on Friday and got an answer today: ‘The question you raise in your letter has not been assessed by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice.’ My question to the Prime Minister is: When he, as Prime Minister and Head of Government, does not wish to implement a decision on the size of the city, on the grounds that it requires a change of law which is strongly disputed among many people, why has it not been shown to Stortinget the respect that at least back coverage has been provided in the form of an investigation by the Ministry of Justice's law department? The coordination law itself allows for derogations from the provisions of the law. In our notes it says, quoted from § 27: ‘The Ministry lays down detailed rules for the implementation of the law. Where there are particular reasons, the Ministry may derogate from the provisions of the Act for the benefit of certain pensioners or groups of pensioners.» That is exactly what is meant to be, and the Stortinge has as its legislator said that if there is something you want to do, you can derogate from the provisions of the law, if it is to the benefit of pensioners to lift the ‘negative effect’ and simply implement the decision taken by the Stortinget. Every time coordination results in lower pensions because points of popular interest have been earned, coordination should simply not be carried out. If I don't remember correctly, Professor Kjønstad has just made this decision for us, which the Christian People's Party and the Right voted for last year, and which was a tremendous victory for the pensioners and those who have fought for it. And the head of the Right, Foreign Minister Jan Petersen, has said several times that the Right will follow up this matter. Government council Ingerd Schou should study the letter from the Norwegian Pensionist Federation, dated September 15th last year. If she doesn't, I have this. Norwegian Pensionist Association breaks the argument from the ministry. But what does it do when a social minister, both the former and the present, and the prime minister listens more to some unknown bureaucrats in the ministry, instead of making it simple, namely to use Section 27 and to give a directive to create a regulation. Then I remember Trygve Bratteli who, when he was Minister of Transport, said to someone who wanted some ways and something like that: the council wants to, but the department says no. This is similar to "Yes, Mr Prime Minister". Is it the department's officials to rule, or is it the big business and the government? It must be that if the Storing has the principle of no-one's being penalised financially because they have earned the people's money through paid work, then the administration must carry it out, not train it. In this case, one has been exceptionally qualified in his training work. The majority of the Grand Prix Committee has been manipulated. In a letter we received from the Minister of Social Affairs, dated 4 March, it says that she ‘is about to send out a hearing case in March/April on the issue and possible solutions, and then to give feedback to the Stortinget’. She aimed to send out a hearing case in March/April. We called it after the end of April. It hadn't arrived. Why didn't it come as planned and as written to us? We have also received the answer. It was because they had planned to be rescued by the Control and Constitutional Committee working with St.meld. No 4th@item: Now, after we've given up Innst. S. No 170 with the remarks that the ministry has requested, and which I do not ignore are written by the ministry and communicated to the representatives of the government parties in the committee, precisely those who want to train and sabotage the negative effect solution have made sure to get back coverage through the committee's majority comments. That's why they had to wait. They had to make sure they got into the comments in the Inn. S. No 170 the reason that they could later use to reject and eliminate the negative effects of ‘negative effect’. It says straight out on page 2 of the letter of hearing that came on May 10, and it's like the star, then they can fan: ‘The matter has recently been dealt with by the Grand Duchy’s Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, point out that the reduced Pension Commission is to assess the individual elements of the current pension system, including the occupational pension schemes and the negative impact of the coordination system. Otherwise, the majority awaits the notified hearing case on the issue and possible solutions.’ It's like the star argument in the letter of hearing. Therefore, the Minister of Social Affairs could not follow his promise of March/April, because she would see to it that she was given our position first to use it as a justification in the consultation note that was sent out, probably the third time, to the same hearing bodies that have all spoken about it twice before. Here is a new information, on page 2 of the introductory part of the consultation note. I referred to Section 27 of the Coordination Act: ‘The Ministry lays down detailed rules for the implementation of the law. Where there are particular reasons, the Ministry may derogate from the provisions of the Act for the benefit of certain pensioners or groups of pensioners.» Then it says in the consultation note: ‘The statutory helmet has not been provided for extensive deviations from the law.’ Who decides that the regulatory home does not aim for extensive deviations? Is there any legal assessment, or is there an invention of the ministry's officials? Who is it that decides what is a major deviation from the law? Once again, there is a sentence that goes straight into the core of the problem without any legal investigation. That is my conclusion on ‘negative effect’, Decision No. 722, that this is Sir Humphrey running. I'm starting to be relatively sure that it knows both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister as well. When should responsibility be taken seriously to ensure that the administration implements what is the political will of this country? That is the question I should have liked to have had the Prime Minister's view on. How can we trust it when there is no legal reference from the law department or others to cover claims that the collapse decision cannot be implemented without legislative change? It could have been done easily if you had the will to do it. We have allowed ourselves to say that we are missing a 'adult' council that is not fooled by its own office. I can also refer to other decisions in this setting, for example: Decision No 577, 12 June 2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of social security contributions for the control of pregnancy carried out by midwives in private as well as public undertakings.’ In other words, a great victory for the Advancement Party. We would have equal treatment. That was the political issue, the equal treatment of midwives, whether in private or public activities. That's what we won. We got it adopted, but we can't get it done. The Ministry of Health replied by letter of 28 February 2002, after a reminder: ‘The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health shall assess the professional, organisational and other assumptions and implications of the possible legalisation of social security contributions for the control of pregnancy by midwives in both private and public activities.’;» What is here is pure sabotage of the decision of the Storting, which goes through with the blessing of the Council of State. I would like to conclude by saying that it is very good that, thanks to the initiative of the Progress Party, we are now receiving an annual report, and we can start discussing how to implement decisions taken by the Stortinget. It's going to be interesting in the future as well. I wish that the Government also began to take a little more seriously its role in ensuring the implementation of the decision making process, and not so passively send negative letters to committees and to the Storting and the Storing when we ask for things. I think this is one of the big problems, that by our inaction, our failure to follow-up decisions and make control systems that ensure that once we have adopted something, we can be sure that it will be implemented, we have contributed to a shortage over many years, for which I will be with me and take responsibility. Now I think it's time for other parties to start thinking that it's not enough for a late evening hour to cheer after a decision in the Stortinget, which you've been fighting for a long time, if it turns out that it's not being implemented and is not taken seriously by the administration. This is the first time some critical questions are asked. Now we're alone. It's possible that it's because everyone else is interested in coming into government just to be in government, while we're interested in implementing the political decisions we're in. That's actually the most important thing for us. And we're kind of shocked to see that some of the big business decisions run into the sand, and that you get away by first saying that you're going to come back in a later document, knowing that no one is logging or checking if you're doing it. Through the correspondence we've had with some of the state councils, and some of the issues that the committee has had, I hope there's become a little more attention to this. Then you can say negative things about the Progress Party and me and bring the negative characteristics as much as you like. But this is one of the issues I want to challenge the Government and the other parties of the Storting to start looking a little bit seriously, because it can't be that simple, straightforward decisions don't take place in three years, and a number of decisions don't come close to implementation. I allow myself to take up one formal proposal that we have put forward in the vote, namely to repeal a decision on the size of the budget, because two governments have in fact stated correctly that they have no intention of following it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e322	The representative Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e327	We agree, I believe, that decisions taken by the Storting have been adopted. We all agree on that. Of course, the Storting and the Government agree that a decision taken by the Storing is taken and will be put to life. But sometimes, in order not to get this into a crazy ditch, it is such that investigations are required. Impacts are required. It may require changes to the law, etc. In Stortinget, we lack investigation capacity for some of the decisions we make. I'm not saying that happens often, but that's the case from time to time, I'm pretty sure. The precision of the size can sometimes be a little bit on the side. The representative, Hagen, took an example. The size decided that the status should be raised for our soldiers. All right. To get to it is not done by pressing a button the next day. It takes a lot of work, certainly investigations, etc., to get such a thing in place. So I'm going to ask: doesn't the representative Hagen mean that sometimes there may be some subsequent work in relation to a decision taken by the Stortinget – not to train, not to undermine, not to stop, but to facilitate this? It is not without reason that we have the division of labour between parliament and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e335	Of course, I agree with Kjell Engebretsen on what he said now. There are many places that are completely natural, and I have not protested against it. It is often necessary to investigate and assess, not to stop and not to sabotage. But my question is, what do you want, sir? The tannery and his party do with the examples that we have proven, documented, in the setting? The only explanation could be that someone in the administration disagrees. That's the problem. So to that very example that my committee colleague chose, and that was an unusually unwise choice. It is stated in that Decision: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose a status-enforcement measure for defence officers.’ It is even up to the Government to first determine different ways of obtaining state-of-the-art measures, whether tax freedom or not, whether there are points when they are going into higher education, whether there is a total amount of money when they are graduating. There are many ways to raise the status and help those who perform protective duties, in conjunction with those who do not. The government was supposed to figure that out. But then it says: 'and make proposals'. In fact, what I am waiting for is a promissory statement a year later, no later than a year later, and that it is announced that there will be a proposition with possible different measures, so that the Storting can decide which measures – for that is what our job is then – of the measures that have been investigated, with benefits and disadvantages and costs, that is what we have to choose. That's the kind of work I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e350	Thanks to Carl I. Hagen, as a word of God from the country, I have had the opportunity to meet here for six months. The representative Hagen is concerned with the division of roles between the state powers, and then I have, as it is a little naive, sharp, the simple human being I am, got the following, perhaps some naive, perception, that one should preferably state the most, reverse the clock, practice a legislative activity with the least discretionary powers, all the preferably shell laws, budgetary proceedings should be carried out in accordance with the ad hoc and inference methods, and proceedings should be conducted here. I hope, then, that the revised national budget makes our committee a real budget winner, so that we can implement this. Summary: The main impression is that the Stortinget should be civil ombudsman, prosecution authority, district court, Supreme Court, complaint subject for all sectors and – parliament – and preferably all state powers at once. At the risk of the career then being very short in this room, I will ask the representative Hagen the following question: Is Carl I. Hagen of the perception that this overall picture is an appropriate division of labour, and ensures that the intentions of the thousands of law decisions that are actually being made here are implemented – something that the representative Hagen, like me, is concerned about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e359	No! No!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e364	It was quick and easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e367	The representative Hagen began his post by giving himself credit for having contributed to a thorough review of these matters, and there is a compliment I would like to join. Nevertheless, it seems to me that at least one point in the discussion of this matter must have been a minor error at the Progress Party in their treatment. As I understand the representative Hagen here today, he believes that ideally things should of course be carried out as soon as possible, but if there are legal changes to be promoted, etc., he may understand that it may take some time before the department comes back with it. I also assume that the representative Hagen and I agree that if there are legal changes to be implemented, the government must return to Stortinget, so that the Stortinget, in line with our constitution, can implement the legislative changes. You can look at decisions under point 2.10.3.1. These are university authorisation schemes. Here the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party choose to state 'with great amazement that the ministry has obviously not understood or wished to understand the decision of the Stortinget'. And so this is based on the fact that the department has written that it will come back to Stortingen with this case. Before this matter was issued by the committee, the ministry had actually also jerked back to Stortinget with what the Stortinget had asked for. I have to say I think it is alarming that in any case you choose to use expressions like: ‘These members will state that the Government will not come back to anything with regard to criteria, but simply according to decisions of the Norwegian National Assembly on 12 June 2001...’» Unless the representative Hagen believes that the government should implement this change of law on its own, I must say that the constitutional cleanness for which the representative Hagen here makes himself a spokesman may not be fully implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e381	When the Storting has resolved a political, controversial issue in a very clear way – as was done when it was the decision on the Criteria elections of the Mjøs Committee, it was disputed, it decided the Storting – and it is to be incorporated into the laws, of course the Government should come back – not to Stortinget, it should come back to Odelstinget, because there is no part and laying that is the legislator. Then there shall be an odelstungsproposition which refers to the plenary decision of the Storting in order to justify why the criteria of the Mjöscommittee are laid down in the law. That's right. It's Odelstinget's technique later to adopt the law change. The point is that the political debate has taken place in Stortinget, it has been finalised, it is a follow-up. This is the same thing as we do in the state budget treatment, where Odelstinget adopts a number of legislative amending decisions as a consequence of the state budget decisions. So that's where the representative is absolutely right. But it's a follow-up, there shouldn't be a new round where the government then comes up with a bill for Odelstinget with a different set of criteria than what was stated in the decision. This has not happened in this case either, because this has come after we gave our position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e391	After listening to various posts and replies by the representative Hagen, I have to say that it comes into my mind a formulation that was something like this: If I hammer or hammer, just as fully so, there will be jams. For the story of the valley of Swyendal, which Hagen's representative here expresses, I've rarely experienced. Everything is shaky and crooked, everything is too slow, everything is bad and stupid. I have to say, this falls on its own unreasonableness. The special thing here is that the representative, Mr. Hagen, calls for special preparation in this matter. He has apparently read all documents from the first to the last page. He makes major demands to the Government for immediate implementation almost the day after the decision has been taken. It should then perhaps be expected that the representative Hagen is also able to make demands on himself in relation to a few of the examples he has drawn in this debate and in the lines. Among other things, he got hurt in a reply to me to claim that no proposal had come from the Government when it came to setting up a cultural memory fund. It's actually wrong. In fact, it is to be read in the revised national budget, St.prp. No 63, pages 134 and 135, now proposed to set up a cultural memory fund and to add 200 million. kr. This has obviously passed the representative Hagen's house, he's taken his pants down, hasn't attended the hour. Another example he set was Decision No. 613: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up its own working party to carry out the duties and functions of the responsible and outlawed command in the future defence.’ Nothing had happened here, according to the representative Hagen. Yes, it is. It is even in the setting that the working group has now been reduced. It's been published. This too has gone past the representative Hagen Hus. He does not even read the documents available for processing in Stortinget, and we should be able to demand that from the representative Hagen, at almost 30 years of seagoing service here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e405	The President would point out that the representative made a reference to Carl I. Hagen, who is absolutely not suitable as a parliamentary expression. Does Carl I. Hagen want to answer the line?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e410	I was in deep doubt if I should. As far as I was aware, it was Decision No. 613 that was criticized. What I am criticising first of all is that when we ask for a composition and a mandate, I expect to get an overview back from the ministry of the people who have been appointed. I complain that it took a long time. With regard to the other thing that should be wrong, I would just like to point out that our position, which I relate to and debate, was issued on 30 April 2002. The revised national budget came on May 7th, if I don't remember mistakes, then. So I keep my words. Otherwise, I see no reason to comment on everything the other representative said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e421	I got a little tired when the example I used was so bad, because even I thought it was so good. The reason I used this example was because the representative Hagen used it himself, and I understood that he believed that after this decision the reaction should have occurred immediately in the government. I understand he didn't mean it. I understand that the representative Hagen and I very much agree that Stortinget is making decisions on investigations and such things. My previous line went so far as to take concrete decisions as the Stortinget takes, not requests for investigations or such things, but concrete decisions that we take. But then it turns out that this decision requires a kind of post-employment like Stortinget because of its role and lack of investigative capacity, etc. have not seen, for example, that it requires legislative change. And what I asked for another line was to ask the representative Hagen if he does not see that in some cases this is necessary and proper to do by the Government, and that it does not necessarily mean training or trying to undermine, or to stop a decision made by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e428	As I said instead, I agree with Kjell Engebretsen. However, there are some issues that he does not concern, and it is: Who decides whether investigations and recent assessments and investigations are required? Is it the Storting, which is to be presented in the form of proposals, a large-scale notification or a roll-out proposition which results in the possible repeal of the decision taken, possibly amending it with more time, or that the Government is coming back, that the Government is not able to implement it in accordance with the deadline, or are we asking to repeal this decision and create a new one with more time? Then it is the Stortinget that approves that an investigation is required. Or should it be that every time an official, every time a bureaucrat thinks that there is a need for investigations, assessments and investigations, the government as a collective body and the Stortinget will automatically say: Well, boss, when you have said that this requires investigation and evaluation for many years, so who are we going to try you out? That's the attitude I want to end up with. For this it is in some departments. It's just to read the whole St.meld. No 4, you see that. The second is, who decides whether legislative changes are required? There I have clearly one message for the Government: If the Storting has taken a decision that the Government will not implement because it has come to the conclusion that it requires legislative change, the Government will ensure that there is a clear, consistent legal assessment that says it is right – not as a negative effect, where there are several top lawyers who have a completely different view than the unknown people in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Then the Government is obliged to ensure that it is investigated by the Department of Justice, which is the highest we can use. We're going to take it more seriously. It shall not be enough for the same person to repeatedly tell one government council after another that this requires a change in law, and he is treated as a god. That's what we're no longer going to find ourselves in. Then there must be proper treatment and at least an attempt to explain why Section 27 of the Coordination Act cannot be used. It is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e438	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e441	I must first thank the representative, Mr Hagen. If the representative Hagen were to have the right to have the proposal on the criteria of the Mjøs Committee only come after the vote, the majority had to do so, for example. the undersigned, who by chance wrote the relevant note, has been visual since the majority refers to the currently submitted odelstingsproposition. I'm not going to go on with any long debate back and forth there, but I'm just saying that at least for the majority it was possible to register this before delivery. I would also like to say a little about SV's principle view in this matter. I want to repeat the rose that I gave to the Advance Party instead of doing a good and thorough job so that the Storting will start to review these matters in a thorough manner. It is not that we have been completely uncritical about dealing with the issues in this communication. Several sites, e.g. in the case of Norwegian cultural memory funds, SV, in the form of a comment, has also noted that this has taken a disproportionate amount of time, and stressed that it was desirable to have this in the current spring session – not for the autumn, as announced. But then it is also with great satisfaction that I can see that it has come into the revised budget. It's almost like you'd think the government's going along with what the Storting is doing, anyway. So to the criticism of the Progress Party, as it emerges from this position – I do not know how to characterise it in a parliamentaryly acceptable way. I can say that in SV we have found that we have had to write our own comments in places where we have often agreed with the Progress Party in the matter. But I also have to say that I think there is something about the language you use when communicating criticism to the Government. I understand that some of the wording of the Advance Party chooses here, not necessarily suitable to help the Government take the decision of the Storting more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e450	Let me first say that even I think it is a useful reform that we are now receiving a big message with a feedback to the Stortinget on the follow-up to investigation and request decisions. I am myself interested in constitutional issues, and therefore also in the relationship between big business and government. And as Prime Minister, I can show with satisfaction that, on most points, there is broad support for the government's follow-up to the various decisions. But I think it's useful that every government has the vigilance on the part of Stortinget that it should report to Stortinget about how a follow-up decision is taken. I also agree with the representative Hagen that sometimes there has not always been an equally precise feedback. I would also like to stress that the Government has the aim of notifying the Stortinget of how the individual decision will be followed up as soon as possible. There is also a background for the Government to report back frequently to the Stortinge, for example. through different budgetary proposals and does not wait for the annual submissions of St.meld. No 4 to provide feedback on implementation. So my opinion is that one should not always wait for this big message. Can happen more quickly in a natural way, e.g.: In the budget proposal, let's do that. As you know, the number of requests has increased sharply in recent years. In the previous growing session, the Stortinget took over 180 request decisions. The attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee shows that only a small number of decisions remain to be taken in the course of the follow-up by the Government, and it would naturally be these matters which call for an interest in the Grand Duchy. But the large, large majority of requests have followed up the government in a way that obviously the Storting is satisfied with. And in most of the cases referred to in today's position, the majority is also more or less reasonably satisfied with the way the Government has followed up. The party of progress is still on its own. Let me just mention some of these. I must also say that with the demand for precision made by the representative Hagen in his post, I was most surprised at his presentation of what has happened in relation to decisions on cultural memory funds. The co-operation administration has not used much more than half a year before we have promoted a proposal for a cultural memory fund. And then I think it was a bad explanation from the representative Hagen to say that that proposal came a few days after this setting was given. He is so closely involved in the political debate and in other large-scale documents that he should know that this government has actually followed up that decision. So the criticism of that point, at least on behalf of the Cooperation Government, which has done this relatively quickly, we can take a great deal of rest. This is the case with the Clean-up Fund, which is also under the Ministry of the Environment. The expression that the representative Hagen has responded to, where it has been notified back of a «possible fund», was a wording that the Stoltenberg government used. I'm just taking note of that. On the other hand, the cooperative government has addressed this matter in the big message entitled “Rain and Rich Seas”, which I believe Hagen has also read thoroughly. Different payment arrangements, including funds, are mentioned for cleaning up in polluting sediments. Possible designs are presented, not for the possibility of a fund, but for possible designs of a fund, and refer to issues to be considered in this way. Now this message is for treatment in the Storting, and the Government is looking forward to what priorities and choices the Storing will make in this way as regards the design of such a fund. The co-operation administration has followed up the case relatively quickly. That's the question of support for the North Sea Diving Alliance. Here I must also admit that despite the demand for precision made by Mr Hagen, he himself referred to that proposal as closely as he did. For what is stated in the Decision is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider providing the North Sea Diving Alliance with a project support...’. It is clear from the decision that the Stortinget has asked the Government to assess it. That's exactly what the government has done, and has been in dialogue with the North Sea Diving Alliance about this to arrive at a suitable project. We are now waiting in agreement with the alliance itself for a formal enquiry. This has been followed up. So to the proposal to create a so-called ‘negative effect’. I agree with Mr Hagen that this is an important matter for many pensioners. But now Hagen presents it as if the Government will not follow this decision. The government has not knowingly said that it will not. Storing decisions shall be followed up. I'll say a little bit more in principle about it afterwards. But it is actually a government not only right, but duty to consider how to follow up a decision unless the Storting has specifically indicated just how to do it. The management and government must then review how we can do this, and what the different implementations of such a decision will have. These are major economic consequences, including: for KLP and hence for the local economy. I have not therefore said that we should not follow it up. It is our condemned duty – excuse me, President – to find out how we can best do it properly, and it is our duty to make sure that the Storting is aware of the economic consequences of different ways of following up the decision – not whether it should be followed up, I repeat: not whether it should be followed up, but different ways of doing it. And we can't actually do that overnight. It is also our task to assess whether this requires legislative change, or whether it can be done on the basis of a regulation of the applicable legal provisions. This will be discussed by the Minister of Social Affairs, since she is present. I have chosen to go into these other matters in such detail myself, because they are under state councils that are not present tonight. But in cases where state councils are present, they will essentially go into this. I have noticed that the representatives of the Progress Party believe that the government's implementation of the Storting decision does not always take place as quickly as desired. To this extent, I can agree – whether we, as in the past, sit in opposition or, as now, in position – that at times it would have been desirable to have a faster follow-up. There's no reason to object. But I find that in most of the cases that the government has reported back to Stortinget, the bulk of the population, or the majority of the committee, is reasonably satisfied with the pace and the way we do it. This also applies to most of the matters we have specifically addressed now. Let me also say the following – and this is said in great detail, according to both what Hagen said in his post now, and what he has written in the committee position: When it sometimes takes time before a roll-up decision can be implemented, it is not a desire of the Government or a department to train the case. Let it be clear – and the representative Hagen should take note of this: it is my opinion, as I also stated in the talk that Hagen referred to, that one of the tasks of the Government is to implement a big decision. There is no doubt about it – no doubt. If the Stortinget has taken a decision, a government shall implement it. But it's a government's job to consider how to implement a roll-out decision, if it's not exactly adopted by the Storting itself. And many times Stortinget has not indicated how, but said that. In that case, a government must do so properly, not through the administration, but through the administration, with the economic and administrative consequences that may result from a decision. It was just supposed to be missing. And we're going to report that back to Stortinget. There should be no doubt that we are going to implement decisions. It's our duty. We don't do our duty if we don't evaluate how it can happen in the best possible way, and the different administrative and economic consequences of it. It is an obligation for a government to explain the economic and administrative consequences of any proposal it makes. At least everyone who's been in government knows that. And that is the duty I believe we should fulfil in relation to the decision to roll out. Let me go further – and this too I think it is important for the representative Hagen to note: either the decision of the Stortinget obliges the Government to propose legislative changes or to adopt new regulations, to draw up action plans, which often take place, to launch new projects, to implement other measures – various examples of what the Stortinget decides – it does not exempt a government from certain minimum procedural requirements. I repeat, not to be misunderstood at that point: not to avoid the decision of the Greatness, but to get it done in a proper and proper way. Here I must say that neither the decision of the Storting is always as keen in its level of precision. I think Mr Hagen will agree with that. So if a result of this debate could also be that the Storting might add a little higher for its own part in terms of the level of precision of decision making, first of all, a government would have less room for action – and that might be fine in many cases, I say it even though I am prime minister – but secondly, it would also lead to the decision being followed up faster. If the decision of the Storting is not very precise, more investigation may be required to implement it — not whether it is to be implemented, but how. So this is also a requirement for the Storting. And this I say, well knowing that I can once again be sitting here myself. So it might also be a claim for myself once in the future – hopefully not too close to the future. Let me mention examples of the requirements for following up decisions by a government. The government must ensure that the consequences of a bill are properly investigated, for example: carry out a general consultation, because it is actually a requirement for legislative changes, and we need to ensure that the matter is adequately clarified in the legislative proposal we are going to promote for Odelsting. In determining e.g.: regulations, which we are sometimes required to change, set up the administrative law's own requirements for the preparation of cases. I'm sure Mr. Hagen will be aware of that. And with regard to the implementation of measures that cost money, the Government must ensure that there is admissibility — if not, of course, it must make proposals to the Storting for the necessary appropriations to implement the decision. These are examples of procedural requirements for a government, and I hope that no one in Stortinget is in any doubt. I hope that there is no doubt about whether a decision should be implemented, but there is a requirement to follow up a decision and to consider how it should be implemented. We've been talking about decisions all along. The representative, Hagen, was also concerned about the issue of majority comments. We agree that it is not constitutionally binding, but it is of course because it is political leadership – which is usually wise to try to realise as far as possible. I myself have participated in writing some of these majority comments, but one discovers quickly, at least when one is in the government building, that if one were to complete all the majority comments, it would require far more than one government budget. That makes me think we should all be happy that they are not constitutionally committed, but they should be applied for as far as possible. So I have to say, in the end, especially when I heard Hagen's last post, that he's trying to give the impression that it's the administration and the bureaucracy that governs. He even gave a rather caricant presentation of it and began to draw God into this picture. I think that someone should treat and talk about those who do a real job in the administration, in a different way. It's not right, even though Hagen repeats it and repeats it, that it's the ones that govern it. But any government and any government council depends on having an apparatus around it that can provide advice, which points to consequences — economic, administrative and legal. But, of course, it's the political leadership that's going to decide, and that's what it's going to be. But the duties of listening to their professionals, because otherwise they can bore the wrong man once. I therefore think that Hagen should stop correcting these gross accusations, whether it's against the administration, doing his job, or it's against state councils, as Hagen obviously believes is just a government of bureaucrats. In order to end in a slightly more atoning tone – but I thought that I could say after hearing the representative Hagen: Let there be no doubt that it is at least this government’s opinion – and that is my opinion, for this interests me quite a lot, and I said a lot about it in that talk – that it is a government’s duty to follow up a big decision. If a government finds it impossible, it gets to go back to the Stortinget and explain that we find this impossible, and possibly invite the Stortinget to make another decision. You're welcome. A decision shall normally be followed up. But it's a government's duty to consider how to do it, if it's not specified in concrete terms, and in that way, of course, it's government and government that evaluates it. But we're actually dependent on and duty to listen to advice that we get from largely excellent professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e526	I think it was very positive that the Prime Minister went far further in agreeing with the principle starting point as the Progress Party and I have suggested that there are no questions about decisions to be implemented, but how, and that once the Storting has taken a decision, they should be implemented. He then goes far beyond all the other parties in the committee position, and I appreciate that it is at least clear that the Prime Minister has essentially the same principleal approach to this issue. My question to the Prime Minister in this round concerns the extensive debate over many years on whether or not implementation of an opinion – I think of the ‘negative effect’ – requires legislative change. Counsellors on pension issues outside this room, as far as I understand, Professor Asbjørn Kjønstad and several of the professional expertise of the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, have repeatedly said that it is fully possible to implement the decision taken by the Stortinget with Kjell Magne Bondevik's vote on 15 June last year, and designed by one of these legal professors. Would it not then be natural – when the Government chooses not to implement it, but claims to Stortinget that a hearing note has to be sent out for the third time – to obtain back coverage in the form of a legal objection from the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department, or at least something other than one to two sentences that this requires legislative change? In the letter I received from the prime minister today, he confirms that it has not been assessed by the law department. So that's not being evaluated. It's referred to the Lassung case and other issues, which are, therefore, the opposite, whether you have the right to avoid coordination. There is no one who has ever claimed. The question is whether the law makes it an obligation to coordinate, even though the Parliament has said otherwise. Does the Prime Minister not agree that it would be natural for a government to achieve a slightly better back coverage when it would argue with the Storting that a decision cannot be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e542	Let me first say in general that I am a little surprised that the main approach to Carl I. Hagen in this case is whether or not legal changes are required. The crucial thing for me is that one follows up the decision to cancel out the negative effect. Whether it is in the form of a change in the law or by law in today's law, I find it less interesting. For pensioners, it's vital that it happens, not how it happens. I am aware that the Progress Party is impatient in so far as it has good reason to do so. They obviously believe that this can happen under the law of the day. In fact, it is also part of this story that the Progress Party in the 2002 budget, last autumn, made a proposal to call on the Government immediately to follow up the decision of 15 June last year. That proposal did not, in fact, get a majority in the Storting. It's part of the story, too. So it's part of the story that the population obviously thinks that you need to take a little bit more time to figure out how to do it. It has legal aspects, and it has economic aspects, including: in relation to the local economy, which I was in. But again, to make it clear: we have not doubted that the decision will be implemented, but we ask if necessary time to do so properly. The majority of the population has given us time, even though the representative Carl I. Hagen has not done so, by rejecting the proposals of the Progress Party for decisions from last autumn. We sometimes find it necessary to get the law department's statements, but if not deleted on all legal issues, it would get very busy. This has been evaluated by the Ministry of Social Affairs, they also have lawyers. It's not like there are random bureaucrats, as it sounded on Hagen instead. They have legal competence, and they have also had consultations with the government attorney. We're going to want to get back to this question, but it's a siding whether this is going to happen through a change of law or regulation. The crucial thing is that it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e556	I am pleased that the Prime Minister now until those degrees has confirmed that he wants to implement this decision. The question is, how long will it go? There's a good part of these retired people who are older people. They have been fighting to let go of this coordination for years! They have experienced that they are paid in the Storting, but they do not receive any more pension money for that reason. And when we think that there are substitutive arguments that are used – you're looking for substituting arguments – we allow ourselves to say that. There are also many strong forces outside this house that agree with us. But I have a question. I was very surprised that the Prime Minister did not actually refer to a decision on big business, but to the fact that a proposal that had been put forward was not adopted. It has also been tried by the Ministry of Social Affairs – we are talking about two major decisions. One – from 15 June last year – is therefore a big decision. If a proposal made by a large-scale group or representative of big business is voted down, is it now the Prime Minister's new view of principle that it can be characterised as a decision on a roll-out? There may be many reasons why people are voting against a proposal. In the past, I have attended many debates where the Prime Minister has also been present, and where it has not been necessary for decisions to be taken because the government has announced that it will come back – one really agrees with the intention of the proposal, but nevertheless chooses to vote it down because it is the wrong time, etc. Is it really the way to understand that the Prime Minister now basically believes that any proposal voted by the Stortinget means that the Stortinget has adopted the opposite of the content, and that the same term can be given, 'burden decision', both to correct decisions, which are voted by a majority, and to reject proposals? It would be alarming if the Prime Minister here agreed with the remarkable understanding expressed by the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e572	I must be allowed to say that it is a little strange debate technique to interpret my post as something quite different from what I said, and then to ask myself if I mean it. That would be completely unnecessary by the representative Hagen. Of course, I have never argued that the Stortinget has not adopted a proposal from the Progress Party means that it has adopted the exact opposite of what the Storinget has adopted before! I wonder where the representative Hagen got it from. I haven't even suggested that. Of course, the Stortinget has not lifted its decision by not voting in favour of the last proposal of the Progress Party. I haven't even been close to suggesting that. It would be remarkable if I meant something like that. But what the rejection of last autumn's proposals by the Progress Party shows is that the majority of the Stortinge has been willing to give the Government a little more time than the Progress Party has thought, namely that this would be carried out immediately. The Storting has rejected it. And it can't be uninteresting for the representative Hagen that Stortingen has rejected it. It shows that the bulk of the population has admitted a government right – and I kept saying that it was almost just missing – to investigate the consequences of this. And I repeat, it's not whether a decision should be implemented, but how. There may be different ways of doing this, including: with a completely different impact on the local economy, for which many parties in the Grand Duchy are well-founded and concerned. So I haven't said anything but that I perceive this as the bulk of the population is willing to give us time to bring these relationships to the fore. And the government has actually followed this up. We have sent the proposal to the hearing. So once again, there is no doubt — a decision by the government will be taken if it does not invite the Stortinget to make a new decision. But it's a government's duty to make sure that the consequences of it are investigated, and that different ways of doing it are properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e587	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e590	Now the Prime Minister has gone into the principal aspects, so I don't touch it, but I have the same opinion: it's not whether a decision should be implemented, but how. This government will then also follow up the decision of the Storting from 15 June 2001 by submitting proposals for current solutions to the issue of ‘negative impact’ on consultation. The hearing note was sent out last week and outlines different alternatives to a system so that no one can lose coordination on the recovery of public interest. Changes in coordination may only take place after amendment of the law, in line with the Enlargement Decision. Section 23 nr. of the Coordination Act 2 gives precise rules on the deductions to be made in occupational retirement provision and any deviation from the rules of the law would be illegal. The Ministry of Social Affairs has no discretion or discretion regarding the understanding and practice of the law, and therefore the decision to collapse cannot be followed up administratively. And I can't by regulation instruct the pension funds to act in contravention of explicit legal provisions on the deductions to be made when the occupational pensions are coordinated with the payment of the social security. We've had consultations with the government attorney about this. The decision on the cancellation of 15 June does not indicate the solution to be adopted. And as shown in the consultation note sent out, there are several current options that have different consequences in terms of costs, not only for the State Pension Fund, but also for the municipal pension funds. Some options for solutions could result in increased coordination. Therefore, the relevant bodies should also be consulted. The Co-ordination Committee has launched its position that the Co-ordination Act contains the most complex and difficult-to-access legislation we have in our system. It also calls for careful consideration of these issues. I have also come to the conclusion that the majority in the committee's position endorses the Government's procedure for following up the decision in question. The representative Hagen is concerned about why we can't solve this by regulation. A regulatory home was introduced in 1992 to alleviate the problems of self-employed members. This was lifted in 1999 because it was considered impracticable and too complicated to administer. A total accumulation – including the Advance Party – supported this, cf. Ot. pp. No 30 for 1998-1999 and Innst. O. No 59 for 1998-1999. The legal basis of Section 27 is not given for extensive deviation from the law and cannot be used for amended coordination in contravention of the precise rules on the deductions to be made in the occupational pension provided for in Section 23 paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox Why isn't the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice asked? A regulatory home was introduced in 1992 to alleviate problems for members with their own earned occupational pension. It was lifted, as I mentioned, in 1999, because, for the reasons I mentioned, it was also found impracticable. The statutory home in Section 27 is not provided for extensive deviations, as I have also mentioned, and it requires coordination in relation to the clarifications in Section 23 paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is only now that this has been brought forward in the debate. As mentioned, we have also consulted the government lawyer – in addition to the service I have at my disposal – when it comes to the issue of changes in the law. Then I would like to say that, after the consultation process, of course, I will return to Stortinget. I also want to say that when we've spent eight months getting the hearing notes out, it may seem like a long time. The matter is complicated. It's hard. The decision does not provide guidance on how to follow up directly, and it also requires consultation because it affects many. I am concerned that the work on the matter is done thoroughly, and that interested parties, such as the Pension Fund, are also involved, so that we avoid new unintended effects, so that the negative effect was actually an unintended effect of the improvements made in 1989. Today's practice follows the law. If today's practice is to be changed, the law must also be amended. The assumptions are firm. There is no discussion as to whether the decision of the Storting should be followed up, but as to how. I intend to return to Stortinget when the consultation round is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e616	Let me first point out that the common feature of disputed legal issues is to obtain views from the Ministry of Justice's law department, which in this way is considered to be a kind of neutral legal interpreter. The government attorney is not the same. The government attorney is the government's lawyer. The fact that the government is listening to the government lawyer is quite fine, but he does not have the same status for most of us as the Justice Department's law department, especially when other professors of law and experts in the field believe anything other than that department and the Social Minister now claims. The Minister of Social Affairs also makes a number of points, which are, in fact, a claim, for which there are no legal considerations, on which we have asked several times without having received a single one – rather those that had to have been made by the Office, I can see that there have been some legal considerations. The Minister of Social Affairs states that § 27 cannot be used. She does not explain why it cannot be used. It is explicitly stated in Section 27: ‘The Ministry lays down detailed rules for the implementation of the law. Where there are particular reasons, the Ministry may derogate from the provisions of the Act for the benefit of certain pensioners or groups of pensioners.» The Council of State has jurisdiction in the Ministry of Social Affairs to derogate from the provisions of the Act if it is in favour of pensioners, in particular when a decision has been taken by the Stortinget in plenary. She just said that the Government and the Ministry cannot change the practice of a law adopted in accordance with the law. Well, the government can do it when the Parliament has taken a decision asking the Government to do it. Then she can. Of course she can! But that's what we're going to get back to when we get a closer look at these things from the Constitutional Commission, which is in turn, and which goes into these issues. I think there are many who mean the same thing as me. So back to the Prime Minister's posts, which I thought were happily clear on the crucial points. I agree with the Prime Minister that we must agree on what we can agree on. He has, with a broad pen – and so has the Minister of Social Affairs – stated that once the Storting has taken a decision, it will be implemented. There's no question about it. I would claim that if you read through St.meld. No 4 for 2001–02, there are many places where it is absolutely possible to ask that question, whether it is the intention of the Government and the government apparatus to implement the decision on the increase. But it's possible we need to have a more systematic follow-up to the big shot decision, because this is the first, quick attempt at such a message. The question is, when this is said that you get back to it in other documents, who is it that checks that you do it? It is possible that you should have a better apparatus, but at least we have started with a little more interest in this, and I think that is a pleasure. The Prime Minister said that I must have said something wrong about the North Sea divers. It's unlikely, as I haven't talked about the North Sea divers at all. I have not mentioned them in my post. It is the other thing that may have done, but I fully agree that it is gratifying that this is being followed up. I have not criticised the Swedish Cultural Memory Fund Cooperation Administration. I have just pointed out that the 2000 decision has not been followed up after this suspension was given. It's been a very long time, so here's the criticism of the government apparatus or government, no matter who it is. But I find that, in this case, the government here for once – almost so that it would cross the roof, even here in the magnificence hall – has listened to the Progress Party and not to its own fraction, because the committee's position says that the majority ‘shows that the Government announces that a proposal for the establishment of a cultural memory fund will be presented in the autumn of 2002 in the context of the 2003 budget and is pleased that the Stortinge decision can be implemented in this respect’. The decision will therefore be taken from 12 October 2000. In our remark, we write: ‘These members will ask the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of a Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund in the current spring session.’ So here it's the Progress Party that's been praying, and not the other parties that thought it was good to get to the harvest. So in terms of negative effect, we're just going to disagree. When the Stortinget has made a decision, in my opinion – and I believe that a study by the Stortinget on the part of the Government would have clarified – it is a matter of course that all the expenses associated with the Stortinget's own decision should be covered by the State budget. If it has any effect on municipalities or on KLP, the Stortinget shall cover and reimburse those costs. It's an obvious thing for us that when the Storting adopts something with abetting consequences, it's the Storting that has the responsibility for funding. It is, in my opinion, an up-to-date problem. It is also gratifying that both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister do not follow up the views of the government parties on the negative effects of the Innst. S. No 170, because they're not quite sure that it's going to be implemented. The only thing that most people write about in terms of negative effects is that they ‘shows that the reduced Pension Commission is to assess the individual elements of the current pension system, including the occupational pension schemes and the negative impact of the coordination system. Otherwise, the majority awaits the notified hearing case in March/April on the issue and possible solutions’. The Minister of Social Affairs said it had taken eight months to get out the hearing memo. It is amazing that it is a key point in the letter of consultation to refer to the setting we are currently handling. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that the reason for waiting was that you wanted to secure the comment I just read – it is a key element of the consultation note itself. But here the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs have stated that this government will implement the decision of 15 June on negative effects, and then it doesn't matter what the Pension Commission thinks. So the government has said that it's not now parked in the Pension Commission. It is the hearing – which, as far as I am aware, will end on 1 November – that is crucial, and then the Government will come up with the necessary proposals for the Grand Duchy to implement the decision, and will of course not rely on it and say: Well, now the hearing is over, but now we have to wait for the Pension Commission. Then I want to get right again when I claim that there are people who are trying to train the implementation. There are some pensioners waiting for this to happen, because they like to have these heads while they're alive. Then the Prime Minister says that a decision by a magnificence does not exempt a government from a certain minimum of proceedings. I fully agree with that. I fully agree that there should be a minimum of procedure. However, if the procedure becomes a maximum procedure, with clear trends and the impression that you are actually trying to put it on time, and link it to the other issues that are not correct, then there will be something different than the minimum procedure that we all agree on. There I refer to a lot of examples in St.meld. No 4th@item: I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we should perhaps be better at making precision decisions in the Stortinget. It probably applies to all lots. But it also sometimes goes for a government to interpret a big decision in a simple and straightforward way, instead of looking with light and light to problematize a situation that is really simple. In my opinion, there are also many examples of this in St.meld. No 4th@item: And then the Prime Minister says there's a lot to be heard. Well, that's a definition question. The so-called consultation instruction, which is a government hearing instruction, is allowed to derogate from the consultation requirement if the government considers that the matter is actually settled. That is the basis of the instructions for not having a hearing. The views on the negative impact of the vast majority of those on the consultation list are already known in the department. But in the instructions, there's a possibility. And then my question is, if the Storting makes a crystal clear decision, where the political decision is crystal clear, what's the point of a hearing? If the Storting has made a decision and decided, you may not do so. Where the Storting asks for it in its decisions – and in many cases, it says that the Stortinget asks the Government to investigate, and then make proposals – then you have to investigate. But in those cases where there is a political disagreement that is very simple, and the Stortinget makes a decision, the government is not bound – as the Prime Minister, in my opinion, could now be interpreted to claim – to carry out a large and difficult and tight consultation on the political issue that has thus been clarified in advance. There is something that says that one can in this way determine and investigate, but sometimes it should be that one could make some decisions, cut through when it comes to investigations and make a political decision. Of course, I would also like to join what the Prime Minister says there are a lot of people in central government who are doing a good job. But it's by reading the St.meld. No 4 the clear impression in some places, and the report back from the representatives of the Progress Party in this house is that there is a growing irritation and a growing clear understanding that the Government does not follow up the Sem Declaration, does not implement what it has promised to implement, and too much listens to its bureaucrats instead of the Storting. We believe it is our duty to tell the Government that there is an impression that an opposition party of some importance in certain contexts has, so that the Prime Minister is aware of it. I noticed that in his speech he said that he hoped to be Prime Minister for a while to come and not go off in too near the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e664	Just a small closing remark, because I think that the debate has been both interesting and useful for both government and big business. When the representative Hagen says that it is not an obligation for a government to send a case to the hearing if it is a political disagreement that has been settled, I can agree with that. However, in my view, it would be useful and right for a government to send the case to the hearing to find out how we can implement this decision in a way that is best for the affected. The different ways in which it is implemented may have quite different economic consequences. That is the case with regard to the issue of negative effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2711]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e687	In this case, the National Audit Office’s review of multilateral assistance is directed towards grants for training actions under the auspices of UNESCO and the World Bank. These are six different projects which have been examined, three of which under the auspices of UNESCO and three under the auspices of the World Bank. We can see from the study carried out by the National Audit Office that the projects are essentially in line with the objectives and principles underlying Norwegian aid work and that the funds are used for the purposes of the planning documents on which this work is based. However, the study also finds aspects of this kind of assistance that can and should be improved. For its part, the Committee has noted in particular two aspects. Firstly, the study shows that some projects, and perhaps in particular projects under the auspices of the World Bank, are not adapted to the extent or content of the local authorities’ capacity to carry out the project. This may result in a halting of the project, a redefinition of the project in the course of its implementation, or a failure to achieve the results envisaged in its implementation. It will, of course, be important that projects that are launched are realistic compared to the fact that local authorities have the opportunity to make use of this and that the project has a long-term impact. Secondly, when the projects are evaluated, we find that this is not systematically done by independent and external bodies, but by the organisations themselves involved. Therefore, there may be reason to ask whether these evaluations provide sufficient basis for an overall assessment of the results of the project both in the short and longer term. The Committee is therefore pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working to identify mechanisms that ensure more qualitative performance data in cooperation with the organisations concerned. The Committee also notes that the Department is working on a transition to fewer and more targeted actions to strengthen priority areas through multilateral organisations, and considers this to be a proper development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e702	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2712]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e715	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e732	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e742	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative of Mr Jan Simonsen, sent from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 30 April 2002. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 43):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e760	During the debate Karin S. Woldseth presented the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up legislation for the implementation of a probationary system of political advertising in local television in the context of the 2003 municipal and county election campaign.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e785	During the debate Magnar Lund Bergo put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal for a transmission proposal has been made by the proposer and is amended to read as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government until the proposal on gambling and lotteries has been completed to ‘freeze’ the gambling market in the autumn of 2002. Until the legal proposal has been dealt with, no new permits or concessions for gambling or test games are granted. Test-games in progress shall not be granted permanent concessions or be converted into permanent games, but, if necessary, shall be extended until the trial period has been completed.If locals, operators or organisations cease operating one or more machines or games for various reasons for the period until the proposition has been processed, the permit or concession shall not be transferred to new owners or drivers.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e810	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the law amending the Law on 28 February 1997 No. 19 on social security, in such a way that Norwegian citizens with a vested right in popular security retain proportionate rights to disability pension even without three years of prior membership upon return to Norway.’» Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e835	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes so that mini-poles can be opened in grocery stores according to the same model as pharmacies’ drug sales in long-distance districts to the nearest pharmacy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e859	President! I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e866	Then the votes to 77 were corrected against the proposal and 16 voted in favour. The proposal is therefore not accepted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party: ‘Document No. 8:40 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e889	It is assumed that the Right and Christian People's Party will vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e918	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The government is asking the government to incorporate provisions into the law requiring new and young drug users to be offered treatment within 3 weeks and to be offered a second follow-up until treatment can be started.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e942	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1st and 2nd of the Party of Advancement Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a treatment guarantee for psychiatry within 6 weeks for children and young people under 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the development of district psychiatric centres and outpatient clinics according to the psychiatry plan to be completed by the end of 2004’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e1002	During the debate, Mr Rød presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to improve the Administration of State Building by the Ministry of Labour and Administration.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the organisational culture of State Building.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e1046	The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14-2.ana.ud532e1077	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Size Decision No 736 of 15 June 2001;
