ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e42	After the briefing I held on Thursday, a more active ownership and stronger governance of the NRK have been requested on one side. On the other hand, the broadcaster has expressed concerns about the signal of closer delineation and definition of the general broadcasting mission. As I see it, this discussion raises three new questions: 1st@item: inlistbox Should the NRK’s public broadcasting mission be clarified more closely?2. What kind of requirements should we set for NRK? 3. What role should the State play in the management and control of the execution of the mission itself? It is a clear paradox that the TV 2 broadcaster has much more specific programme requirements than the NRK has, despite the fact that the NRK receives DKK 3 billion annually from the public register to produce public broadcasting. In practice, no less stringent requirements are imposed on the NRK than on the other companies. The Public Broadcasting Council, which is responsible for providing advice to the Ministry on the principle of public broadcasting, assesses the programme in the NRC according to the same criteria as for the other broadcasters. The Council has consistently been very satisfied with the NRC's public broadcasting offer. In addition, the programme profile of companies clearly shows that licensing funding is a more effective tool than specific programme requirements when it comes to increasing the scope of public broadcasting. However, when I think it is necessary to initiate the preparation of the public service broadcasting mission, it is initially because Norway is bound to this by the EEA Agreement. In addition, it seems to me that such a review will be positive because it can clarify for the public, the governmental and the enterprise itself the social responsibility of the NRK. Another reason is that TV 2 has increased programme requirements in the new concession in force from 1 January 2003. In general, however, there will be a formalisation of the requirements that are currently in force. Let me make it clear that there is no speech in this work to do any kind of interception of what the NRK should be able to send. So what kind of requirements are we going to set for the NRK? The goal must be for the NRK to continue to play its role as one of the most important sources of news, information, culture and entertainment in Norway. This requires on the one hand that NRK must produce applications that the commercial channels cannot or will not offer. On the other hand, it is clear that the NRK must have great uprising in the people. Therefore, the NRK's task cannot be restricted to offering narrow applications only. I think it'll be necessary to have a relatively broad and open definition of the public broadcasting mission. The third issue concerns the management and control of the execution of the mission. I refer to the principles that I drew up in the briefing last Thursday. I just want to remind you here that there has to be a big difference between controlling and controlling a company like the NRK and other companies in which the state has ownership interests. First of all, the NRK is an editorial enterprise that has social criticism and the fact that it has political decisions in its sumanes as important parts of its social mission. Secondly, the NRK does not intend to spend money, but to use money to produce public broadcasting. We cannot therefore use the same control and control tools as those used for Statoil, Norsk Hydro or other commercial operations. Some people have interpreted me so that the government is now adding up a release of a digital network for television. It is not correct. In order to prepare all aspects of the case, it is necessary to send the site for the publication of a digital background on a wide range of hearings. Experience from other countries suggests that it is important that the concession arrangements themselves are on a solid foundation. At the same time, it is important that a notice should come in to us, and I believe that we too should be able to do that. I hope now we can avoid reducing the debate on the NRK to issues about some programmes or concrete organisational decisions. This will, in my view, be a derailment. In order to help hold the debate at a political level in principle, I would like to endorse a few points that have been raised in the debate after the briefing last Thursday. First of all, there is the merger of the district offices in the North and South Trøndelag and in Hedmark and Uppland. As I mentioned in the briefing, I have concluded that the savings measures that have been implemented until now in the NRK are within the scope of what the board and the board must have the freedom to decide. I have not said any concrete cork about Buskerud, Vestfold or other states that have been included in the debate today. What is clear is that the NRK is working on plans for the district offices. The important thing is that programs they send are good, and I am absolutely sure that those who have had the word here today will follow closely if the NRK sends good programs for which the listeners and viewers are happy, and which have the same quality as the ones we have today. The second is the creation of own direct television broadcasts in Northern Ireland, which have also been featured today. The NRC has stated that from the third quarter of 2002 such broadcasts will be created, but to a very limited extent. What I can say is that this is the first part of the NRK to do, and we have to follow with the NRK so that they follow up what is the decision of the Storting in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e76	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e79	I want to give the Council of State credit for asking many good questions in this regard: What should the public broadcasting role be, what should we do with the situation of the NRK in relation to VAT legislation, how should we develop a new network to ensure a digital future? Unfortunately, the statement does not give the same number of answers. It is not said very specifically what should be in the general broadcasting role, it is not finally said what kind of model should be chosen in relation to VAT, nor is there anything said about what the Government concludes with regard to a digital network. I have some questions for the Council of State in this regard. Firstly, does the State Council support the Workers' Party's view that we should create a general-broadcasting poster that specifically and concretely sets clear conditions for what we as owners and that is funded by the public-broadcaster that the NRK should comply with? Will she use the power as the representative of the owners, the Norwegian people, and ensure that these requirements are followed? It is important that we, as representatives of the owners, ensure that the NRK fulfils the role it should, which all other owners of different private companies are demanding for their businesses. It can't be that because we've created a company model, as owners, we're not going to have any idea of the business they're doing. Here I think the Council of State has moved far from the first rounds of the discussion. So I also have a question in relation to the digital ground net. In its statement, the Council of State states that one third of the digital network capacity should be nationwide. This means that only five to six channels are reserved for the nationwide channels. In that case, people will have to pay maybe NOK 5000 to connect to a network that gives about the same offer as today, because already today people get NRK, NRK2, TV 2 and TVNorway through the local broadcaster. And is it reasonable that people in the districts will have to pay $5,000 to get the same offer they have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e88	There were a lot of questions here. The representative also pointed out that I had moved in the right direction. I don't know, I've had the same opinion all along. Then maybe the representative Giske has taken me more positively now than he initially did. It's a nice signal to get. Clearly, as owners, we should be involved in giving a signal to the NRK, it should just be missing! That's precisely why I want to go in and look at the public broadcasting mission again, to be more concrete. It is completely unnatural that TV 2 should be more demanding than what we put to NRK – TV 2, which is advertising-funded, whereas NRK will receive licenses of more than NOK 3 billion – it should be lacking. Of course, in the areas that it's natural for the owners to go in and rule, we'll also be in charge. But when it's related to the tendency to override that some people have shown by the changes that the NRK has made up to today, I actually mean that a owner, a general meeting, should not go in and out of detail. I want to remind the representative Geske that it is Giske's own party that has actually proposed to turn the NRK into AS. I have to stick to that, even though the Christian People's Party went against when this was handled in the Stortinget. It also gives me less power to control, it should guess at the moment take over. But I'm going to use the resources that I have for the NRK to still be the cultural bearer that they are, and also the seat for both news, discussion programs and entertainment, as we want. When it applies to the sum of NOK 5000 that the representative Geske says they have to pay for the digital ground net, it's a total that's completely unknown to me. Of course, we have to come back to how the digital ground net is to be built, and also the price of it. Of course, these details will come back to us. In fact, I mean, the kind of thing that I put forward is that the most concrete thing that has been in this area. I have also said that the concession should be able to shine out during the spring. So, at least we've never received concrete proposals from the other government party before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e99	I have two questions for the Council of State. Question no. 1 it is clear that in her presentation she opened up a possible increase in the licence fee. The Progress Party, as I said in my opening speech today, will strongly warn against this. My question is, to what extent does the Council of State assume that this might be the case, in relation to the other possibilities that she herself has outlined in the statement? And can she say anything about what direction the government's assessments seem to go? Question no. 2 concerns the somewhat surprising decision made by the Council of State in its statement that colour television is actually a testing scheme and that no decision has been taken to make this system permanent. Should not this customs incubation be formally corrected, or can we live completely unproblematic with the decision that exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e106	The President will assume that there is only one category of incursions and that they do not need to be further qualified.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e109	To take the last first, I can live well with the situation as it is today. I also said in my introduction that if there was a demand from this assembly that I should come to Stortinget with a proposal for a decision, I would like to do so. But then I feel that the requirement must come from a multiple. I felt that I had signed out the case, which others have not intervened in and made the matter current before. So that was the question of license increases or other ways of financing. I also had a feeling that I was a little too fuzzy there. Contrary to Mr Knudsen, there have been several budgetary conferences in which one has put forward proposals on how to deal with the various matters purely in budgetary terms. There are not many days until we go to Halvorsbøle, and then of course we come from the government's side to discuss how to strengthen the NRK. What I have said in my introduction, and what the government is behind, is that the NRK needs to come out a little better, strengthened, with regard to the economy today. I can't give any clearer answers to that than that, and then the representative will be waiting to see if there will be zero VAT, whether there will be full VAT, whether there will be an increase in licenses, or whether there will be direct government support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e116	Like Trond Giske, I see that the Council of State is not so unwilling to play a more active role in the ownership of the NRK. The Council of State says that we should not be sidetracked in individual programmes, and that is in itself okay, but at the same time, the debate on individual programmes is an expression of a concreteisation of trends that we see in the NRC. Is the Council of State comfortable with the trends we see when a quality programme such as 'Schrödinger's Cat' needs to be on the agenda in all media to find a safe place and be carried forward, as one example? Does the Council of State agree that we see a trend in the NRC that market thinking and 'rating' mean more and more for what kind of programs are being set up? Then go to it with digitization. One of the things that's been going on in the debate is that it looks like we can probably get NRK and TV 2 as owners of a digital network, right in a separate AS, but nevertheless it's going to be the same owners that control both content and distribution. Does the Council have any idea of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e125	I have to admit that not getting involved in some of the things that the NRK has done, and that it has come out that they have plans to do, probably has been a relatively steep learning curve for me, because we all have an engagement, and we have an engagement, for the NRK. But I'd like to site what former state councillor Ellen Horn has said when it concerns the active ownership of the NRK, and how it's going to be done. She said: ‘I am concerned that the Governing Council of the State and the Government of the NRC must be exercised at an overall level. The company must have free powers in relation to day-to-day operations and purely business aspects. It follows from the fact that the Storting has chosen the form of a limited liability company for the organisation of the company. Furthermore, editorial freedom must be a fundamental principle for the governance of the company by the authorities.» I have to take note of that. At the same time, I have no idea what the process has been like in NRK. in relation to the cat of Schrödinger, I have only found out what the result is. I'm not sorry for that, and I won't say anything more about it. The NRK must be busy on one side to have good viewer numbers. At the same time, they can afford to think ‘malt’. That's what I want the NRK to be able to do in the future. I want the NRK not only to think of being market-driven and large-scale viewers, but also to be able to think of'malt' in relation to the mission we have given them. When it comes to further expansion and who is going to get the concession after a announcement, I don't think I want to say so much about it. This is a publication that must happen internationally, not only in Norway. We know that NRK and TV 2 have established a company. We're going to take note of that, but we're going to publish it, and then we're going to have to evaluate who's going to get the assignment next time. I don't think it's right for me now to start discussing whether it's wise for NRK and TV 2 to get it, or for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e139	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative Lånke in his post states, as the Central Party has done before, that Nordland should be treated in the same way as the rest of the country when it relates to the district offices. It stands still in gruesome contrast to what the representative from the Right said in his post. And I hope that the Council shares Loan's vision. The Council of State says: ‘For the districts, NRK’s radio and television district broadcasts are an important part of the information provision. I would therefore like to stress that it is necessary for the NRK to maintain a good rural supply throughout the country.’ This is a quote from the Council of State, and I'm completely in agreement with everything she said. However, although the Council of State underlines the importance of maintaining a good supply of districts throughout the country, it nevertheless, in my opinion, played a defensive role when alerting closures and mergers of district offices. In previous remarks, the Christian People's Party has stated that if NRK's government were to make extensive structural changes, it would require political treatment. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have once been united. We have seen structural changes that will result in closure and aggregation, but they are not comprehensive enough. With the knowledge that we all have of the NRK's economy, it wouldn't be surprising if there were any new amendments that would concern the district offices. And my challenge to the Council of State is: how extensive must structural changes be, or how many closures or mergers can the Council of State accept, before the Council of State thinks it needs political treatment? Or will e.g. Do the councils accept the closure of all district offices as long as programmes are created that come out into the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e154	I stand by the wording that I had in my statement last Thursday, that one should keep up a good rural offer throughout the country. The NRK leadership has yet said that with the reorganisations they have done, provision should be improved, and that is one of the reasons why they have transformed some of the district shipments. It's not about sending any more, it's about rationalizing the staff in any of the counties. What I want to establish as the important thing here is that the recipients, the customers, get good broadcasts. It is important to take care of both nynorrhea and bookthings in these broadcasts, and that the listeners and viewers get good broadcasts. Actually, it is secondary to where they are produced, only they are localized in content. At the same time, I also have to say that if one commits to shutting down all the local offices, the changes are so big that we have to come back to Stortinget with it. It's hard for me to set a limit on when I want to intervene, but if it gets big – and I want to underline big – structural changes, then we're obliged to come back to Stortinget with it, and we're going to do the same. This, of course, we will follow closely. But setting any number of states or any limits would not be serious. Finally, it is the broadcasts that must be the most important for everyone, not the organisation around them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e163	I am also referring to this opinion which the members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left had in the 2001 budgetary position, where the representatives said that the NRK's district offices and district missions are a very important and highly valued part of the NRK's activities. In particular, for reasons of the legitimacy of the NRC as a public broadcaster, it is therefore necessary not to weaken district broadcasts throughout the country. Does the Christian People’s Party still believe this, or is it no longer so important with district offices? That's the one question. And then I have to give the Council of State the opportunity to say a little bit more about what a ‘large restructuring’ or a structural change is in the NRC. Is it that now that we take a little bit and a little bit at a time, it's not that dangerous, but when we do a really round, it's very dangerous. Where's the limit going? The Council of State believes that, for example: Smoke would have been sitting quietly if the board had made anything that he was opposed to? Since the Council of State in its reply to Gishe said that she has limited authority over the NRC, the Council of State may provide an example of when, as the Council of State and General Assembly, she might feel anything about disposals that the board is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e172	This is going to be another answer to the same thing. I'll try to do it again. What is stated in the quotation from the budgetary position on which the Christian People's Party was involved is: 'if the Governing Council of the NRC were to make proposals which would lead to major changes in the regional policy profile, the matter would require political consideration'. Is there anyone here today who can say that the broadcasts from Hedmark and Oppland or North and South Trondelag have a completely different regional policy profile? Yes, they'll have to give you a message. Because if they change the profile and cut out the one state or ignore the one state, we have to be told, and then we'll give a message to the NRK. Then I will intervene as a general meeting. I expect that the Hedmark representative will have a watchful eye in relation to his own county. I also want to encourage everyone else to have that. For the NRK, they are obliged to create district shipments, and of course they are to do so. Now they've done some rationalization measures, and I want to remind the assembly that these arrests took the NRK initiative independently of the budget, but because they wanted to create better programs, and because society is actually moving forward. We have better equipment to build programs now than we had a few years ago. It is easier to get out to far more places in the state than it was before, because the camera and the equipment they carry are easier to handle and easier to carry. They can actually make far better programs from the outer hook for a cheaper money because the equipment has improved. I actually believed that the committee had been informed and had been explained. So I'm pretty surprised at the pressure that goes right on it in this room today. Some of what's important to me is that when it's e.g. For Sogn and Fjordne and, in part, for Hordaland, the typical new Norwegian states, a policy must not lead to the downgrading of the new Norway in these counties due to the fact that the head office is located elsewhere – if they think so. This is important to follow. It is important to follow the language law, and it is important to follow with regard to the quality of the programme. I invite the assembly to give a message if the profile is completely different than it was before, because then I will give a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e185	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e188	The presentation by the Minister of Culture and the debate so far show that there is a broad political outreach to the importance of maintaining a public broadcaster in Norway for the sake of democracy and to maintain and strengthen the identity enshrined in our culture and our language. In other words, the NRK has been given a task that goes beyond the other media companies because the institution has a separate obligation to embrace widely, media and culturally. So the number of viewers or listeners is not the only measure of this media company's success. When the consensus on this is so broad, it is important – as the Minister for Culture also points out in his statement – that we are also willing to pay what this costs. This implies that the NRK’s economy must have both a level that is proportionate to the extensive task assigned to it and an opportunity to be ahead of technological and media. However, it is also important that the NRC has a stable income base that allows for long-term development and planning. This is also important for the organisation and management model chosen to be able to function as intended. In recent years, we have seen that the economy of the NRC has called for measures that have led to unrest, including in this room, in relation to the obligations underpinning the business. In such situations, the responsibilities of the governance model are challenged. This does not mean, of course, that the NRK should be protected from effectively operating, that they should be protected from the need for conversions and the requirement to house strictly with their resources. There is not necessarily a close link between liberal budgets and high programme quality. It can often be that transitions, including those that emerge from economic necessity, can trigger ideas and creativity that contribute to creating the dynamics and innovation needed to fill their media and cultural policy role in a new era. The Minister of Culture’s statement also shows that the Government recognises that the economic foundation of the NRC is not sufficient today to enable the institution to move into digital technology while maintaining its obligations as a public broadcaster. It is supported by speakers from the government parties in the debate, and this is also agreed by the Labour Party. The government is considering four options to strengthen the NRK economy. In the choice between these options, the Government must consider both the need to strengthen the economic capacity of the NRC in the short term and the longer term needs. In such an image, there will be something surprising – to say so – whether this Government is landing on a significant increase in the broadcasting fee. Firstly, this will undermine the potential for natural and necessary normal income growth in the years ahead. However, it will also be wrong – at least after the Labour Party’s view – to give the licence a significant jump at a time when, for many reasons, it is right to use the increased economic freedom of action of the country to reduce a high level of charges. On the part of the Labour Party, we are committed to ensuring a broad majority for others of the solutions outlined by the Minister of Culture. The simplest and perhaps the most tidy solution would be to allow the NRK to benefit from the VAT system, but with a zero rate system, so that the licence is still exempt from VAT. It provides the necessary revenue and stability for this level in the years to come from which the institution is able to plan its investments and operations. This scheme will also remove the current obstacles to the purchase of services outside the enterprise. Although the NRC now appears to be strengthening its revenue base, it will neither, nor shall it provide any protection against continued efficiency and renewal. There is an obstacle in this work that using own employees is 24 pst. cheaper than purchases of services from others. This also has a cultural policy dimension. By removing this ‘customs barrier’, the NRK, through the purchase of programme productions, can contribute to the strengthening of Norwegian production environments in film and television. As the Minister for Culture said in his statement, programme production has not kept pace with the growth in broadcasting time, which means more foreign soap and other series, at least if we look at our overall TV offer. The working party is open to consider variants of such a solution in order to ensure a broad majority. But at the bottom of the solution chosen, the NRK's economy must be given a foundation that is stronger than today and stable over time. I also hope that the Minister of Culture and the Government, when they are to be gathered on Halvorsbøle, will take this into account in making the necessary choices to ensure the NRK's ability to play its important role in media and cultural policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e216	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e219	The NRK is the most important cultural bearer we have in Norway. And at a time when the Norwegian language is increasingly in competition with English-speaking media channels in particular, the role of the NRK as a cultural bearer and a provider of Norwegian language, culture and tradition is of great importance. But if the NRK is also to be a quality supplier in the future, we as owners must be willing to provide the NRK with economic framework conditions that enable them to deliver the quality product we expect from them. This will contribute to the Centre Party, and our proposal for VAT exemption is a good contribution to a better economy for the NRC. The district missions of the NRK are very strong in the Norwegian population. When the NRK district division is to cut costs for 30 million. kr on an annual basis from 1 July of this year, this raises concerns and concerns. The centre party acknowledges that the NRK has a free position as a limited liability company. We don't want to regulate the NRK in detail or stand in the way of sensible reorganisations that will ultimately benefit us as users. But the central party is clearly of the opinion that when a structuralisation is announced or carried out on the basis of a narrow economic framework, we, as owners, shall tell whether this is a desirable development or not. In that context, I want to take a sharp distance from Right's light-minded claims that the Center Party's involvement in this matter is confined to a hope of obtaining a look-up in the locals. I'm asking Right's Chief Spokesman to notice that the Stortinget has made a decision on a structure when it comes to the district offices, and it doesn't go on the program content, but it goes on the number. The size has also increased substantially with the reason that the NRK would realise its development of district offices. These are the facts, and it's obvious that as owners we have to be able to mean something about this. The central party will repeat the criticism we have in the setting of Document No. 8:28: The amendments that will apply to several of the NRK’s district offices are so significant for the role of the NRK as a public broadcaster that the consequences should be presented to the owner, i.e. the owner. The big deal, for political treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e232	It is good to hear and see that a Right-dominated Government is able to present a statement that does not differ very much from the statements and the words we have heard from the Ministers of Culture of the Labour Party in the previous years – perhaps with a few small shades and a few rough exceptions, but I will come back to that strongly. The council itself was concerned that she has been through a steep learning curve, and with the thorough review she had of the governance of the NRK in her statement, we see that it is something quite different from the signals we received in the harvest when we discussed the structure of the district offices, where an AS was supposed to prevent any political management of our company. It is also a bit strange for one who has been in the media debate for quite a while, to see that some parties who discussed election coverage in Israel in the Day's Revision in 1994-1995, now until those degrees pass on the other side and the AS's legal prizes and its possibilities of not exercising political influence over the NRC. I guess there's got to be a at least as steep learning curve for some people. The council was aware that it was the Workers' Party that transformed the NRK into an AS, and I can highly recommend that conversion proposition. It is possible that the Council of State will have some surprises, because one of the things we were very clear about was that the political impact on the NRC should not be reduced, perhaps on the contrary in some areas. But instead of having a virtually arbitrary management of the NRK – where the agenda and various jumping claims provided for the decisions in Stortinget – we would have a slightly more comprehensive governance. We were very clear that, among other things. The structure of district missions was one of the things that had to be dealt with politically, because the point was not to move that type out. Then the Council of State insisted that if the district shipments changed their profile, they would make changes. Then I think the Council of State is on a bit of a dangerous road, because then she's into the editorial issues. If, on the other hand, you start to change the structure, we have to be very attentive. That is what made the Workers' Party a little offensive in this area – rightly so, even in relation to the AS proposition, including the setting and including what was on the speaker's side and said at the time. I think it was me. But then over to what I think is a little rough. It is a sentence that outlines the requirements to be imposed on a digital broadcasting network. If only one-third of the country is going to be fully covered with a digital broadcasting network, it's almost so we can just as well drop out of expanding the digital broadcasting network. If the market is to be allowed to run two thirds, a few coverage will be provided where one already has the opportunity to access channels, while the districts will again have a lower offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e247	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[Footing, see page 1896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e265	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e283	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e301	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e319	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e335	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that the speakers who had to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e342	Many young people fall out of work, and some even experience early and unnecessary disability. It is a serious problem the author of the proposal travels, and it is commendable that he has done so. The Committee agrees with the proposer that action must be taken, but the Committee has disagreed with the specific measures pointed out by the proposer. We can look at information from the last few days. Statistical central agency has demonstrated that over the last four years, 35,000 young people have dropped out of high school. Many are out of school and want a year off or work, while others struggle to adapt to the school system. Pupils with a minority language background and students with a right to adapted training have greater disqualities than others. Many students want practice and work in front of school, and there is nothing wrong with it. Problems arise only if the school system is so rigid that there is no room for more practice early in training or an alternative approach, if one does not get all the wrong. I'm afraid that's the way it is now. You almost have to show acute misfits to get an alternative setup. Now it's like adults are entitled to secondary education. Then there would be less risk for those who want to take a break at school and come back to school when the motivation had to be there later. In principle, this is now in order, but in practice it may be difficult. It's not the case today that adults get room when they want to, or where they want to. And with the cuts that we now see in high school, and the county municipality has to take if the Stortinget does not make sure to pay the deficit after hospitalization, the number of places and the width of secondary education will be greatly reduced. And then the problems will get worse. Interest is an important motivation, writes Minister of Education and Research Clemet of the Evening Post on March 6, and she continues: ‘Strengthening the management of pupils’ choices can lead to greater drop-outs from secondary education’.» I fully agree with that. Then we have to ensure the breadth and freedom of choice both for those who go straight from high school and into high school — that reduces the risk of ‘drop-out’ — and we have to make sure that there is room for those who choose to take a break and want another race. The Committee points out that the advisory service must be strong and that Aetat also has a responsibility for young people who want to work in front of school. The Committee asks that work be focused on this. There is also a need for closer cooperation between school and working life already in primary school. There are a number of trials, to which the Committee has referred and on which the Committee wishes to support. Further training needs to be changed. It may not be that students still have to show acute dissatisfaction or drop out of education in order to receive an alternative course of training. The entire Committee agrees that alternatives to the main model for higher education are needed. For the SV part, I would like to refer to proposals in Document No. 8:72 for 2001-2002, by Rolf Reikvam and Lena Jensen, on different models of post-secondary education and greater freedom to choose different schemes from the main model. The majority of the Committee considers that the pay subsidy scheme through Aetat is a good instrument to ensure that young people who want to go to work are allowed to do so. It can be an instrument for achieving these goals, both for young people over 19 years of age and as a possible model for younger people. On the other hand, the proposer pointed out that it could be an opportunity to use child benefit as a type of wage subsidy in order not to be too expensive for employers to pay young people. The Committee does not agree. The Committee considers that the current rate of pay subsidy scheme in Aetate is to be used for this purpose. The Committee therefore agrees with the proposer that there is a need to focus on this. There are now proposals in the Grand Duchy that allow us to look at parts of this, but the concrete proposals that the proposer has put forward have not been agreed by the Committee. The Committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e373	It is an important political challenge to address issues related to the fact that more and more young people are being disadvantaged. We're going to take this very seriously. The causes of the increase in the number of young people are probably complex, but one reason is that many people are unable to adapt to today’s demands for education and working life. The high performance requirements in society, with increasing competition and problem-solving around e.g. bullying, incentives for both the lack of inclusion and the emancipation of the good company. In other words, young people are becoming victims of what I want to characterize as an increasingly individualised and competitive society. This may be one of the main causes of increasing health problems among children and young people. In the context of the Stortinget’s evaluation of reform 94, it became clear that the Stortinget’s intention of greater flexibility in continuing training was of little use in the country. There may be many reasons for this, including: the county authorities did not establish such flexible solutions. Many young people complain that there was too much theory on the professional lines. When it was a crazy general subject, the theory was little professionally justified and little differentiated. This was the reason why during the treatment of the evaluation, the Storting opened up to establish alternative approaches to the main model. Such alternative test runs can undoubtedly help to reduce the number of falls outside, thus making them less slippery. The Youth Guarantee shall ensure that all young people under 20 years of age without a place of education or employment are offered labour market measures. Here, Aetat will play a key role in an interaction with industry and challenge institutions. But a clear commitment to this success is that Aetat has both resources and personnel to follow it up. The current situation in Aetat does not suggest that – but there is one thing we should come back to in a later debate. In the case of the Youth Guarantee, one measure should be that it should apply to all under 25 years of age. The Labour Party also believes that greater economic differences could reinforce these developments, that more young people are falling outside the labour market. It is often the young who become losers when adults have problems with work or economics. Many who are in a difficult situation in life pass the problems on to their children. Then, when the performance requirements for children and young people increase in addition, this is probably a serious health risk. That is why it is right to use economic instruments against deferred groups. Among other things, removing property in school and free textbooks in further training will provide a health benefit. In addition, increasing resources for the school services will help to increase efforts in the prevention of psychosocial work. Young people are occupied with practical solutions. It is therefore important that the Government take this challenge seriously, make a thorough assessment and promote good action in the context of the 2003 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e390	Over the course of a few years, alarming numbers of young people have become dissatisfied, and various general measures have been taken to reduce the number of disabled people. It may seem that the access rate has also fallen somewhat recently, but we are still in the paradoxical and not least sad situation that, on the one hand, society is screaming for labour, while, on the other hand, there are potentially over a million people who could either be brought back to work or perhaps also work more, including many young people. We get reports from all sides that there has been a marked increase in mental and complex psychosocial problems, which is why more young people are under-retired. On behalf of the Right and in connection with our fraction in another committee — the Committee on Control and Constitution — and its work on the Riksrevisions Document No. 3:3 The audit study on disability pension and occupational rehabilitation, I have made a small round trip to some local social security offices and Aetat offices. The signals that we are now beginning to see the top of the iceberg in terms of social consequences for the party-dop generation are relatively clear. We have received another clear signal from disabled people's organisations. Some Aetat offices sometimes seem to focus too much on the individual’s physical and mental limitations rather than on the functioning of the system, and that the offices are also affected by a lack of competence in relation to the new young users. When a unanimous municipal committee in its position on this specific matter believes that more can be done to stimulate working life and Aetat to jointly find new alternative solutions for young people falling outside school and working life, it is necessary to have an important backbone clearly in mind: Aetat’s offices are characterised, among other things, by: There is a need to address the important outsourced work that needs to be done at the expense of large-scale tour operators, a small professional community, a difficult recruitment situation, and that a lot of time is involved in internal training for new employees. In the cases where school, Aetat and business have joined together, this has often worked beyond expectations, but it requires a lot in terms of time use and not least in terms of resource use. It is also important for the Right to focus on a strong counselling service both in primary and secondary education as an important prevention measure. At the top, there is a problem today that counsellor positions in several schools are occupied with people in a low job fraction, and who are sometimes, as a matter of fact, semi-studented robbers from the Blinder – otherwise without, of course, drawing parallels to some of us younger representatives in this room. In the same way as the perceived lack of competence at Aetat, it is clear that the narrower the background of knowledge or experience in the case manager or consultant is, the less presupposes these to find individual arrangements rather than standard arrangements for the individual, even if the legislation to do so is partly in place. However, in this case, the right will not simply assume that there is a direct link between the problems posed by reform 94 and the increase in the number of younger disability pensioners, but will, of course, follow developments and evaluate this carefully. In this context, there is reason to repeat what has been said several times before, namely that the possibilities for deviations from the main model must be established and used in a much more flexible way. In my own home country, Akershus, we have just had this for treatment, and the legislation clearly shows that the framework for trials or adaptations is not as narrow as some school administrations later to believe. As regards SV's Document No. 8:72 on proposing changes to implement a more flexible implementation of vocational training, I think this is a good initiative. In this context, I am also pleased with the signals given by the State Council of Clement regarding the government's work. Finally, I bring forward some other issues we get plenty of time to discuss in the context of later issues, namely that differences in the assessment of social actions, Aetat and social security agencies regarding the legislation and organisational structures of these agencies are to work within, can help to prevent young people from becoming unemployees. In addition, there is a lack of a comprehensive reporting system. In the agreement with the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 14 December 2001, the Government is now examining whether a joint establishment with not least a common regulatory framework can address these systemic weaknesses and allow resources that are currently spread across different financial bags and agencies to be better used and enable young people who we know can and will both work and get an education to do so, rather than become passive social welfare recipients. Finally, the previous speakers, who thought that society had become too competitive and too individualised. The main problem in Norwegian school today is that the school is less individualised. This makes competition notional by the survival of students with resource-intensive parents, and those without resource-powerful parents are dependent on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e414	What the Coastal Party and Steinar Bastesen take up in this matter is very important. There are too many young people — and the number is also increasing — who drop out of further education and who also do not get or accept alternative arrangements in their working life. Too often they end up as a young disability. This is unfortunate for society, it's expensive for the state and beyond a disaster for the young people who don't realize their dreams and desires. I'm glad that a bunch of crowds underline that it must be a priority task to bring down the number of young people who have mishaps. However, although the Christian People's Party and the Government Party see that the school does not adequately address individual needs in the training, we dare to claim that the increase in psychiatric diagnosis as a medical cause of disability is probably more due to drug and drug abuse than is lacking in Reform 94. Party-dop — ecstasy, etc. – have consequences that are alarming and must be followed closely. In fact, little may be more important than prevention of drug abuse among young people. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the possibilities for deviations from the main model of continuing training are limited in practice. The size has provided greater flexibility than what is offered, and it affects the scoundreled or theory-tired youth when they are not followed up. In 1998–99, the Stortinget asked for more flexible solutions for young people who dislike theory but who can enjoy practical training. We have to accept that some elephants experience the ordinary school as a nightmare, and even if they don't need a special pedagogical scheme, there has to be alternative courses for them. Often, the need for theoretical training will come after practical approaches. Then there must be a possibility of such training, even if one should have passed 20 years. It must not be possible for the turbulent teens to be irrecoverably later in life. Otherwise, there were many in my class in the folk school who ended their education without any more theoretical addition, and they've all made themselves clear, so that's what it's all about. Everyone agrees that child welfare is not a tool to get young people into work or in an alternative course, even though it is a bit messy in two different notes in the setting. Wages and salaries should of course be used to ensure that young people – now from 16 years of age – who can benefit from company work training are given such opportunities, and that is what we agree on. The Christian People's Party believes that there are no formal barriers to young people getting access to work or more flexible education. But that the schooling and the public can become more creative, more flexible and perhaps more flexible in setting up individually customized arrangements is quite certain. It is also necessary, because it must be the last resort, after all other measures have been tried, that one goes to the step of disapproving a young person. We have too little labour force in this country. We all need young people to build the country. Everyone must note that their efforts are needed, including those who do not focus on higher education or a theoretical approach in life. After all, there is a lot of practical work to be done in Norway also in the future, work where mathematics or physics skills may not be the most central.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e429	The center part of my much more can be done to secure more young people a better platform than today. It is alarming that there are so many messages about dissatisfaction in school, about elephants who are not comfortable, about teachers who seek their way away, about the despair of parents who ask for advice and help. It is highly alarming for all individuals, but also in relation to all the ringing effects this has in the longer term. Document No 8:3 has as its starting point the disproportionately high number of young people who have had disability and measures to prevent it. This requires much stronger cooperation across young people, parents, businesses and public services to reverse this trend. The search light must focus on what is successful: municipalities that invest in their young people through the prioritisation of schools, cultural life, young people who take initiatives through pupils' businesses, including the leisure environment, advanced schools and businesses that, through different measures, have included more. A local economy that provides the opportunity to strengthen the advisory service, which in turn provides a better basis for a choice to be made in relation to further education and work, is important. The psychiatry escalation plan with its 800 settings in the school suite needs to be followed up. A county economy that allows the prioritisation of follow-up services, counselling services, child protection and prevention of drug abuse should not be perceived as pure utopia, as is the case today in some countries. Let me also mention the Psychiatric Youth Team, with the unique position they have in several states, and the anxiety that I know about them being invisible to health businesses. Wages and salaries are mentioned in particular. Let us also help to highlight the business leaders who actually see their social responsibility, who benefit from this scheme, and thus help more young people get a better platform. So the Committee has pointed specifically at alternative stages to the main model of reform 94. Yes, it is thoughtful that, in its review of Reform 94 — i.e. the evaluation of Reform 94 — the Education Committee stressed both that many felt that there was too much theory, that the alternative possibilities were too little exploited, that there was a lack of flexibility, and that tailor-made training had to be highlighted in particular. Let me also highlight young people with disabilities. It is an inseparable group. It's a group that has to pay more attention than today. The NOU «From User to Citizens» has good proposals that need to be followed up, and when it applies to the services we have today, to Aetat and Social Security, and to the interaction that should be with further training and with individuals, there is no doubt that there needs to be a strengthening. It is thoughtful to experience that it is actually young people – I have met them myself – who go and ask for work and would like to have it, and who are advised to be illiterate rather than to have the opportunity to try a job. Then there are glistening examples of disability as a pattern for others, who have contributed to the creation of their own businesses, and who have taught other people with disabilities to a meaningful and very social work. I myself, in my time, had the joy of visiting such a device within Telenor's company, which in fact has contributed specifically to the fact that more people have got work. Let me finally say that the Council of State should now review the articles that have come here. She'll find out that here's not just a selection of good words, but actually a real commitment across the board. Here are yet concrete proposals to reverse a negative trend and help to give more young people opportunities to participate in an inclusive working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e448	So far in the debate, there is not so much to add to what the previous speakers have said. It is just to agree with what has already been said and also to refer to the setting in this case. Of course, the fact that so many young people are labeled miserable and a little indestructible – in their eyes – in relation to working life is very unfortunate. And the fact that 35,000 young people have dropped the school in such a short time, as the rapporteur pointed out, should perhaps have made the alarm clocks call earlier for someone each. Of course, we could also coordinate a little bit of the work that's going on here at Stortinget. In the last period, I was on the family committee, and we were able to repeatedly present figures, especially in relation to children, but also younger young people – to use that expression – who were on their way out of both school and the family life they were supposed to have been part of. Since 1995, 85 000 children in this country have been in contact with child protection in some way. This should, of course, have made the alarm clock call much earlier. But, as others have said here today, this is a complex problem. Therefore, it is also important that we now have a concerted effort to reverse the trend we are experiencing. The fact that many young people now want to choose work or practice in front of school, we have to take it seriously. And then, of course, it has to be arranged in the best possible way. But when we're going to make this happen, it's important that the youth doesn't feel that it's kind of a deployment scheme that doesn't have any real value. Here, it is important that young people get real participation in the world of work, and that they feel fully involved in the world of work and in relation to the outsourcing they need. Otherwise I think we'll go with us exactly the same problems from school and into the possible working life. If we're going to try to analyze why it's gone wrong, we might have to go to high school. We have to look at Reform 94, where the consideration of the individual has been washed out in a way. We must respect the fact that humans have different needs and different interests – simply the individual's own identity. My claim is that this idea of equality has suffered both during elementary school and during Reform 94. It is the public that has gone ahead and made greater demands on young people, as referred to earlier in the debate. It is the public that has gone ahead through the school and said that everyone should perform the like regardless of their initial position. And if, with the measures that come forward, we can take it inward, I'm absolutely sure we'll be able to reverse that trend, not least for the sake of respect for the young people who come after. That is why the Progress Party is also thinking that the measures that might have to come in the future should perhaps also apply to younger young people than those we are talking about here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e461	In the light of Document No. The 8-proposal by the representative Steinar Bastesen has asked a unanimous municipal committee to look at the formal obstacles to work opportunities for young people and to join in the main consideration of the draft document, even though it has been said that there is no agreement on all the instructions for solutions contained in the proposal itself. The government is very concerned about finding good solutions for young people who, for various reasons, are unable to follow the regular training course with transition to work. Ensuring a foothold on the labour market is a priority task for young people. It is a very demanding task, but imperative, both in the interests of individuals and in the interests of society as a whole. The government believes that the main provision for young people between the ages of 16 and 19 should remain education under the supervision of the county council in line with the Training Act. This has so far been a broad political consensus. Young people looking for Aetat will initially receive information, guidance and dissemination assistance. The Youth Guarantee shall ensure that young people under the age of 20 who are out of school or work receive an offer of labour market measures. This is primarily the provision of work practices and preferably combined with some time in school, so-called combined arrangements. The county follow-up service coordinates actions for young people who, for various reasons, fall out of secondary school. The cooperation between Aetate and the follow-up service works essentially very well. As regards the need for alternative training courses in vocational training, the Government aims to develop more flexible training schemes to enter into apprenticeships right after primary school. The government will be briefing the Storting on this in a short time. Aetat may use different labour market measures for young jobseekers. Labour market measures have different content to suit the needs of different job seekers. The measure paid shall contribute to the recruitment of vulnerable groups of jobseekers under normal pay and working conditions. This is achieved by providing temporary wage subsidies to employers who employ people for the purpose of lasting employment. In the formulation of labour market policies, greater emphasis has been placed on the importance of local discretion and degrees of freedom. This is an important and proper development, fully in line with the Government's programme for modernising, improving efficiency and simplifying the public sector. The Aetat case manager locally, in consultation with the individual jobseeker, carries out a professional and individual assessment of what is necessary for the individual to enter into normal work, including, where appropriate, participation in labour market measures. The Minister of Labour does not want to instruct Aetat locally on how to do this, as there are individual needs and local judgement that are key elements of such an assessment. He therefore does not wish to go back to a system where the exact measures for which labour market measures and the scope of action to be taken in relation to the various target groups of the establishment are set out from a central point of view. There are now about as many registered totally unemployed young people under the age of 20 as there were one year ago. I fully agree with the Committee that it is important that Aetat has sufficient resources and action places to meet the Youth Guarantee. The current year’s letter of allocation sets the objective of continuing the Youth Guarantee in 2002. I therefore assume that Aetat is continuously assessing the response to this target group, so that the objective of the letter of allocation can be met. It is a guiding principle in the Norwegian economy that employers mainly cover their own labour costs, including wages and salaries. The actual salary level is determined mainly after negotiation. That's the way it should be. The introduction of a general government wage subsidy to individual groups in the world of work will have a number of very unfortunate consequences. Among other things, such a scheme would weaken the possibility of providing stable, high employment in the long term. Such widespread use of wage subsidies would also be contrary to EEA competition rules. The Government therefore proposes to continue the current principles of the use of this type of scheme by using them only in time and determined by individual assessments. The aim of the grant shall be to compensate for the lack of productivity of each participant, not to contribute to achieving the right level of pay in youth jobs. Finally, I want to assure you that the Government will follow closely the development of youth unemployment and come back to the Stortinget with a possible need to strengthen resource efforts towards this target group. I would also like to stress that the real commitment shown in the Chamber on this issue, I will continue to the Minister of Labour. This is not just an area for the Minister of Labour. The themes that have been addressed so far in the debate are both my responsibility as Minister of State for Local Affairs, the work of the Minister of Education and the work of the Minister of Social Affairs. We're going to work together to focus on youth and make sure that no one is dissatisfied until they've actually tried to get them into work, which is the main point of all the policies we're pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e487	I first need to clarify some of what the Council of State said. In the evening post of 6 March, Minister of Education and Research Kristin Clemet sjåll writes that what the Government intends to come to the Stortinget with speed is: ‘Proposal for a new Law on Vocational Training — i.e. short vocational education coming at the top of secondary education, which may be an alternative to traditional and more academic higher education.’ It was something other than what the Council of State said now, and I want clarity in it. So to some of the things that have been said about why young people drop out, and why some people get sick. I want to say that not wanting to go to high school when going out of primary school, necessarily doesn't have to be a sign that something is wrong. This must be possible, and it is one of the main points of the introduction of the right to secondary education for adults as well. I think that the pressure can get big on some of those who have a hard time is this feeling that you absolutely have to, and you have to do it now, if it doesn't go wrong, and also that you have trouble getting into some of the things you want, and you're forced to go on something you don't want to. I think that's all going wrong, and there I agree with the Clemet State Council. I think the right given with Reform 94 was bang important and very good, but the duty to start right now and do it right now, I think it's wrong. I would also like to say that the post that the representative André Dahl had was commendable. He shows there an insight into how Aetat needs to function, individually, in having competence, in having stable labour, in being able to target its actions to the individual, whether it be young people, disabled people or immigrants. I hope that this representative will have a conversation with the Minister of Labour and Administration, who is responsible for this, and help to ensure that the agency can have the means to function in this way. It's the only thing that can make us succeed in the fight against youth exclusion, but also in the fight against poverty, because we know that work is so incredibly important to those who do not work. Then I also feel that the flexibility of Reform 94, and not least the flexibility that Stortinget has repeatedly pointed out that you want to make better use, is not exploited. That's why I think Stortinget has to do some new rounds on it. Finally, this with the possible formal obstacles that may cause young people not to come in: we ask the government to look at it, whether there may be any problems there. The point of the Committee's reference to the use of wage subsidies is that there is a subsidy that the Government announced by letter to the Committee is relevant in relation to this group and that it is not supposed to be a general wage subsidy for all those who come under this scheme, but will be used actively to reach the target group we are now talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e511	Let me just answer what Karin Andersen said in his introduction at the outset, namely the question of a concrete understanding of what I said in the article related to more flexible training schemes when it came to concluding a learning contract. Minister of Education Kristin Clemet will provide a briefing to the Stortinget on this. We are absolutely in line with what is in SV's proposal in this area. You're looking at practical ways. Kristin Klemet will come back to Stortinget with it in a very short time. In addition, it is also right to make proposals and work related to the new law on vocational training, but there are several things going on in this area and with different impacts. So the question related to Aetat. We are continuing to work on the internal situation in Aetat, especially in relation to the re-entry situation now. Among other things, we have also signalled that there will be higher appropriations for Aetat in the future, and that Aetat can count on this because there have been problems in the conversion of the reintroduction money and conversion into the reintroduction facility. Now, a main goal of the Government with Aetat is to get a lot more focus on the weak groups compared to what you've seen in the past for a few years, where you've been very intermediary-oriented. If you want to focus on the weak groups and focus more on the qualification page in Aetat, it means that you have to be individual, that you have to go into the individual and see what needs they have. These are young people, but they are not least foreign-speaking — they are the whole set of those who have difficulty entering the labour market. It's completely in line with the government's policy. As regards the question of salary subsidies, I am pleased that we agree that salary subsidies will be used in the way that was also outlined in my article. We must not get into such a situation that in order to employ people who have difficulty – who in some way are considered not to be 100 pst. equally productive - an employer must have paid. Compensation of employees must be a ‘softening’ into the labour market for some groups, but it must not be expected to be paid from the public if it is not an adult, normal person with high productivity who is employed. Not everything can be compensated by the public – it is dangerous in my opinion. Based on the experience we had with a high share of labour market measures, we know that the type of action is at some point pushing out ordinary jobs that should have been done. It was one of the problems we had with the great mass of measures at the beginning of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e520	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1897]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e528	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e535	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Rolf Terje Klungland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘St.prp. No 35 is returned to the Government for treatment after the impact assessment of annual petroleum activity in the northern sea areas of Lofoten and northwards is available.» [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e559	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate policy-making on issues related to the marine environment and climate policy in order to be addressed in accordance with the objectives of the Cooperative Government on sustainable development and the objective of following the precautionary principle.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e589	President, I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e596	Can the President understand it so that it was voted against?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e599	I have voted against and should vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e606	Then the setting was accepted by 75 to 25 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e616	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e629	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party – all except the representatives of Konglevoll – and the Advance Party – is addressed to voting. The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will support the proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the operator of the Melkøya plant arrange and participate with funding so that the cooling water transmission lines to the Kvalöa industrial area can be realised’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e647	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for the Storting so that the NRK’s licence fee is differentiated according to the possibility for the recipient to receive NRK1 and NRK2 over the ordinary transmission network.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-07-2.ana.ud1178e662	The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Church on Norwegian National Broadcasting be annexed to the minutes of the meeting of 28 February 2002. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
