ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e28	The representatives of Gunnar Halvorsen, Jon Lilletun, Trond Helleland, Per Roar Bredvold, Kjetil Bjørklund and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Bjørgulf Froyn from 20 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the vara, Ragnar Bøe Elgsaas, is hereby invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e67	Ragnar Bøe Elgsaas is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e72	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e77	I suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e82	Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are proposed as presidents. Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes and Øyvind Halleraker are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings today and tomorrow. The representative Knut Storberget will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e87	On behalf of the big business representatives Grethe Fossli, Anne Helen Rui and myself, I would like to make a proposal for an accelerated evaluation and amendment of the law on Santa Claus after it has now worked for one year, in order to prevent its unreasonable outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e92	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e115	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Council of State Dagfinn HøybrätenState Council Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e134	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In yesterday's Nations we could read that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will consult only some parts of the economy in relation to demands received in the forthcoming WTO service negotiations. No other type of organisation or the Stortinget, or for the benefit of the population as such, is to be made aware of the requirements that Norway is now faced with. This secrecy and exclusion of all interested parties, with the exception of parts of the economy, are in stark contrast to the fact that the EU has now chosen to publish what kind of requirements its Member States face. The EU's justification is that transparency is sought and that all interested parties are engaged in continuous dialogue. And that makes sense. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will then be: What is the strategy and overall political thinking underlying Norway's choice of secrecy and absence of debate in the WTO context? And why can Norway, like the EU, not just seek transparency and contribute to a general debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e143	As the representative of Höglund knows, we have had a number of debates on the WTO in Stortingen, and it is absolutely my intention to maintain good and open relations with the Storingen on this issue. It is also a matter of Norwegian society in general. It is true that we carry out extensive consultation processes with organisations, not only in business but also in society. Information about the process has been published on the UD's web pages, and will be expanded and updated as time goes by. I believe that the specific issue at stake is that the EU has, on its side, provided a summary – not published, but summarised – of some of the requirements facing the EU. This is technically a very comprehensive matter to do. But we're going to try to have as much openness as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e150	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. Can I see the Minister for Foreign Affairs there that one will try to follow the example of the European Union in presenting such a list as the European Union has done, and that the reason why it has not been done before is a capacity problem, and not that one will follow the wording of Secretary of State Tronstad in the nation yesterday, where she said that ‘in a democracy you do not need everyone to be inside the picture at any time’? Isn't the goal here just to get to this transparency? What the WTO has been criticised for by so many is that there is a democratic deficit in such processes. The government has different contexts, such as: in the Johannesburg Summit, chosen to involve interested parties. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that they will try to do the same in these WTO cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e159	As Höglund knows, I am an enthusiastic follower of international free trade. I believe that the WTO is definitely moving in the right direction, and of course would like to have as much attention as possible on that kind of process. I can confirm that I will draw as many as possible into that process, and I think that will strengthen the basic idea of an open, liberal world trade, which I believe both Høglund and I agree on. With regard to the form in which information is to be published on the requirements that Norway has been faced with, I have to have the opportunity to come back to that, because it is correct, as Høglund says, that it is technically a difficult process. However, what is important here is that Norway’s jumping points are given the necessary attention. I'll make sure they do that. We have one problem with the entire WTO debate, namely that we are very concerned about the defensive aspects of it. I think we are now going to focus more on the offensive possibilities that lie in this for Norway, because they are clearly present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e166	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e169	I note the foreign minister's intention to keep Stortinget well informed and also to clear positions in relation to Stortinget. That's good. However, decisions of the WTO General Council of 13 May 2002 on procedures for the circulation and publication of WTO documents have decided to exempt all documents relating to requirements and negotiations on the liberalisation of services until the outcome of bilateral negotiations has been completed and their new binding lists have been adopted. In plain text, I cannot understand anything other than that it will mean that Stortinget will not get information or will get to treatment what Norway is going to give governing rights to do in this round of service negotiations. Thus, the size is set on the sideline of what is a very important issue for Norway. This is objectionable. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Is my understanding of WTO decisions in procedures for the circulation and publication of WTO documents correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e174	I can confirm that under WTO legislation the requirements are not published, but that we do not get a public debate on the important and emerging points for Norway does not necessarily result. This is probably also the background for the EU giving this summary as they have done. I believe, as I said, that Norway has so many good offensive interests in the WTO negotiations that I would like to have drag help in, that I do not at all need to light up the conspiracy theories of others by keeping things more secret than necessary in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e180	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e183	We are facing a historic summit in the European Union. After all, the EU will formally invite ten new Member States in. Soon, the whole of Europe will be part of the European Union. It is clear that Norwegian interests in the EU will be even harder to take care of when the area is enlarged. Our democratic deficit will increase. Of course, the Workers' Party supports the Government's work on the best possible solutions under the EEA Agreement, but now more and more calls for an open debate on the form of association. The final poll from Opinion shows that 58 pst. by the people would have answered yes in a referendum. Does the Foreign Minister think that we now have a challenging situation? And when does the government intend to come up with its assessment of what is now best for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e188	If the question is not more problematic than if we have a challenging situation, I can confirm that we have a challenging situation. To the extent that the government parties, as Mr. Gunhild's eyeman knows, have responded differently. The right has said that we have always thought that Norway should find its place in the European Communities. The other two have not done so, and so far are more in line with the Workers' Party, which has not come as far in its programme management as the Right has done. However, once we have reached the compromise contained in the Sem Declaration, it is precisely because, in any case, it is not realistic at this stage to believe that it is possible to get through Europe in ways other than what is now reasonably widely agreed. But that there are strengths and weaknesses in this situation, we're very open, and that's why the government is also very clear about what's plus and minus in the picture we're now facing, and we're actively taking part in that debate. In terms of disagreement between the parties, I think the best thing to do is to be open to the dilemmas that Norway is facing, and that's what we've been doing in all the questions that are. This is in many ways the answer to question number two. I think it's very important that we are open about the dilemmas we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e193	I thank you for your answer. I have noticed that the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, of Today's Business and the Christian newspaper Our Country in leadership has separately referred to developments in the European Union as exciting and positive. Sponheim is calling for an open debate, and our country is cautiously calling for a vision or two, as it is called, and I think it is gratifying that there is a will for innovation in circles in and near the Government. The Labour Party believes that it is very important to have freedom of action in the EU issue. We believe that we need to have either a good EEA agreement or full EU membership. Does the Foreign Minister and the Government now agree that we must have such freedom of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e200	The political platform of this government in Europe is clear. The Sem Declaration states that it is the EEA Agreement, our agreement with the ESDP, the Schengen Agreement and similar agreements that are now the basis of our European policy, and that is the basis on which this government is based. As I explained in my previous answer, there's been a process up to that platform, but that's the platform we have to run from. However, it is not the same as not openly discussing the dilemmas facing Norway. There we have been very open and hope that there is an openness that the internal process of the Workers' Party can also benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e205	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e208	The draft EU negotiating mandate now on the table suggests that the EU requires Norwegian fishing resources, possibly access to investment in the Norwegian fishing fleet. We know we've been running quota hopping in Norway. That's actually not allowed, but we've done it silently. We know that it's actually the general right that we've been faced with. That he's eight of the Northmen could be a question of doubt. But we can now risk Norwegian fishing boats becoming eight from London, Paris or anywhere. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e213	The President has some doubts about the relationship between the main question and this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e216	As Jacobsen very well knows, the challenge we are facing is to ensure that the rights we now have under the free trade agreements we have with the candidate countries actually exist when the EU is enlarged. We believe that we have a basis for compensation requirements under the WTO rules, and that is what we think. We're not going to draw the kind of problems that Jacobsen now mentions. I also have to say – regardless of Jacobsen’s question, because there has been a lot about it in the United Kingdom lately – that when Norway is going to negotiate, I would like to ask that we negotiate with the EU and not with the EU via the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e223	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e226	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence a question. There is a lot of evidence that the NATO summit tomorrow will lead to a historic extension of NATO. The interesting thing from a defence point of view is how this expansion will affect both the defence capabilities of the alliance and of each country. For Norway, of course, it is our own defence ability that I have in mind. It has always been a principle that new members should lead to a plus in total defence and military capacity within the alliance. It might be interesting to hear the Minister of Defence’s assessment of how the admission of new countries, countries with a somewhat different background than ours, will operate in relation to an improved collective defence within the spheres of the alliance. Can we trust that the new alliance brings more security and defence security than is now the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e236	The most important thing is to give more opportunities to take part in the benefits of NATO membership, namely increased long-term security. It will also indirectly be of value to old NATO members. At the same time, I believe that many of the concerns raised in some circles related to the capacity of the new countries should not be taken too seriously. What NATO is doing in addition to expanding with new members is precisely also modernising the structure of NATO, by both introducing new capacities, changing the command structure to make it more effective, and creating a new rapid reaction force. Within this concept, these three measures will also increase access for individual countries, small countries, to clean niches and to choose strategic partners, which will allow small countries to benefit from the alliance to a much greater extent than before. At a meeting between the Baltic countries, the United States and the Nordic countries in June, this point was just underlined to these three countries. If they identify their strengths in the defence sector, reindeer them to a niche that NATO needs, and choose strategic alliances in its region, small and new countries will also be able to contribute relatively quickly to NATO's strengthening, including military. I am convinced that enlargement will take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e243	I would like to thank you for your answer. It seems very reassuring that such reflections have been made around the expansion and that it is part of the justification. I remember the Minister of Defence's assurance that it will provide long-term security for the old members as well. Nevertheless, it is such that the close things also occupy us quite a lot. When the Minister of Defense is involved in the command structures, I could imagine asking her to expand it a little bit. What can we expect to happen to the command structures, both the operational and the functional command structures of an enlarged NATO? For Norway, it is quite clear that this is something that concerns us, and is very close to us in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e252	The background for the changes that are happening in NATO now is that we have practical experience that the way NATO is organized today is not good enough. When Article 5 was triggered after 11 September, NATO had an unacceptable long response time. We also didn't use NATO's command structure, but everyone knows that Operation Enduring Freedom is American-led. Therefore, if NATO is to have the same relevance in the future, it is important to streamline the command structure so that it is used. It is important to have a reaction force that has such a short response time that it ensures us all the day you have to use it. And it's important that we have relevant capacities. There is no doubt that today's command structure, including the headquarters we have at Jåttå and at Reitan, must prepare for major changes. The NATO Summit shall draw a new skeleton. What cities and what countries are on the map will not be decided until the near summer. However, Norway makes maximum use of its bilateral relations to ensure continued allied presence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e259	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e262	I should not, of course, suggest that this question was pre-ordered! The Council of State said something about niche capacity and job allocation, and among the decisions that are expected to be taken in Prague, is what is called the Prague Capabilities Commitment, which will replace the current Defence Capabilities Initiative. Behind these aliens lies a completely different form of structure in NATO, not least in the military forces of individual, in particular European, countries. NATO is going to require countries to provide us with niche capacities, with a greater division of labour between the European NATO countries, with a strong demand for modernisation, as the Norwegian defence agreement of 19 June this year – as the Workers' Party – despite today's headlines on the TV 2 news, looks loyally up – will the new PCC get for us? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e269	The President would point out that the representatives should respect the speaking time, so that the question can also be asked within the limits set by the speaking time. Furthermore, it must be considered that the main question was not pre-ordered!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e274	It is clearly the Government's intention that the notifications made by this government to the Prague Capability Commitment are in line with the defence agreement, that is. both the overall framework of DKK 118 billion and the distribution between years in the agreement. Nor is it necessary to postpone any of the investment projects approved in the Stortinget. But within a framework of NOK 118 billion, it will always be so that some projects planned towards the end of the period can be pushed into the next period, while some of the projects planned for the next four-year period are pushed into that period. Here we've suggested projects in the order of perhaps about 900 million. NOK 118 billion, and this will in no way conflict with the content of the defence agreement. As the representative Nybakk rightly points out, the whole idea behind the PCC is the same as that behind the defence agreement, namely the need for a strong modernisation of both national and allied defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e279	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e282	At the NATO Summit in Praha, the NATO strength and command structure shall be debated, with the aim of establishing a standing rapid reaction force of 21000 men under NATO command. It shall also indicate at the summit the other special capacities to be contributed by the different NATO countries in future NATO operations, while providing a clear signal for the development of a rocket shield. At the same time, Norway has major unsolved tasks in protecting the resources of our vast seas, including: we have an oil tanker that cannot handle major oil accidents and a coastguard that cannot keep all ships in operation. Is the Minister of Defence saying that a rapid reaction force for use in offensive operations anywhere in the world is a more important area for Norway than keeping a high level of preparedness in our own seas, among others. to avoid the kind of accidents we've now seen off the Spanish coast? And does the Minister of Defense think that developing an allied missile shield is the right way to go to deal with future threats to our security?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e287	The first three themes to be addressed at the summit, as described by Bjørklund, are correct, but it is not correct to give a clear signal to a rocket shield. The matter is sorted under the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but it's there, a study is whether you can also use a rocket defense for population areas in the alliance, and it's something quite different. But then to the question itself. Of course, we should have a satisfactory oil preparedness here at home. The accident outside Spain and Portugal clearly shows that this is a problem we must take seriously also in Norway. Here, in fact, the defense is very important, among other things. through our command on Reitan, which carries out surveillance of our northern sea areas, and there is close and good cooperation between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Fisheries and other relevant departments just around it with coastal surveillance and preparedness and what can be done if there is a crisis. With regard to other measures that fall within the remit of the Minister for the Environment, I do not want to go into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e294	Per Ove Wide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e298	With regard to the enlargement of NATO and the countries that may be involved in this enlargement, we know that the prerequisite is to strengthen NATO both militarily and financially. It surprises me that the state council so uninhibited is so positive when some of these countries we are now talking about, absolutely do not have that assumption. How, then, will she defend the participation of these countries? Of course, Norway and some other countries with resources can help countries to some extent, but the assumptions are not present. How will she defend this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e303	The President will remind you that the only person to be addressed in the Grand Duchy is the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e306	I believe that, after enlargement, all the new NATO countries can deliver something relevant to the alliance. I also believe that with the number of operations involving NATO and Norway, it may be good to have several countries to play on in cooperation with international operations. I'd like to give you an example. In Kosovo, which is a NATO operation, there are also Nordic countries present, and we are planning the Nordic countries to join forces and take the lead in what has previously been the British sector. In the future, we may need elements from other countries in such a Nordic brigade. There's going to be a good opportunity here, for example. for the three Baltic countries to be able to enter with elements then baked into a Nordic brigade. Then we will help qualify new members, while getting valuable relief for members who have been involved in such operations over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e313	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e316	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The world is in a very demanding situation. We're left with one superpower and one situation where there's a great need for the rest of the world to form a counterpower against a superpower that takes care of itself. Now it is in the situation that, in parallel with the adoption of a resolution by the Security Council vis-à-vis weapons inspectors in Iraq, the United States is moving around on its own to seek support for a military action. It seems like the United States has decided to war on Iraq anyway. In this respect, I have two questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the resolution that has now been adopted gives a sufficient UN mandate for a military action against Iraq? And point 2: Is it true if one initiates military action against Iraq, that this should be a US-led action where the United States can pick up the allies in the same way that they want in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e323	Clearly, it is a challenge that there is one remaining superpower, and one of the challenges is to engage superpower in broader international cooperation and dialogue. It has just been done, by the fact that this superpower, like all the other nations in the Security Council, also helped to choose the UN track in resolving this issue. Another expression of this is that the issue of missile shields is now to be studied - I stress it, it is right as the Minister of Defence says - in the NATO context. It engages the entire NATO circuit in that kind of question. So I agree with the underlying, that it is important to involve them in broader processes than purely national decisions. But I'm a little uncertain about what Kristin Halvorsen's question is now about, because the Security Council's decision is about the fact that there will be a process in which the matter will return to the Security Council, in the sense that the inspectors' reports will return to the Security Council. It will then be up to the Security Council to consider how to address this issue. That is why the resolution that has now been adopted is not the only one before the Security Council, and the matter is therefore closed. The resolution is very clear that the matter will return to the Security Council. For the government, it is imperative that we now get rid of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction without the use of armed power. At my discretion, this resolution 1441 also provides such a last opportunity to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e335	What the uncertainty has been about in relation to what the Security Council actually adopted in the last round is not whether the Security Council had to reassemble before any reaction, but whether a new resolution had to be put in place before any military action was backed up. I see that the Foreign Minister is going to lunch in Praha, and that the United States is already out to get support from allies to a military action against Iraq. Then I wonder if the Foreign Minister thinks that the Security Council resolution is going to be credible to Iraq. Is it really such that they can possibly believe that even if they comply with the Security Council resolution, this could have a peaceful outcome? And point number. 2 is: is it relevant for Norway to contribute to a military action against Iraq at the request of the United States and under the command of the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e342	The President is a little uncertain what place the Foreign Minister's lunch in Praha has in the picture. But the Foreign Minister may be able to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e345	There's probably going to be interesting things going on also on this question. I just want to repeat what is now our main point: that it is imperative for us to contribute to the abolition of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction without the use of military power. Resolution 1441 of the Security Council provides such an opportunity, and we expect Iraq to use it. If the Council has not made it clear in this decision that it could have the most serious consequences for the country. We will only be able to address this issue once the Security Council has assessed the reports of the arms inspectors and if necessary has found that Iraq has seriously failed to fulfil its obligations under the UN Charter. This means that all diplomatic and political instruments have been exhausted. Should there be a positive response, it must be clear that military operations should be enshrined in international law, and that in that case there will be a large number of NATO countries and important countries in the region supporting such an action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e354	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e357	Security Council Resolution 1441, which calls for Iraq in relation to the weapons inspectors, is exceptionally important, and it is very clear as to what demands are being made on Iraq. That's good. But what is not agreed on, and what is not clear in the Security Council resolution, is the further process in the event that Iraq actually violates the requirements imposed on it by the Security Council. Everyone agrees that the matter should be referred back to the Security Council and discussed in the Council, as confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But the issue is therefore whether existing resolutions represent an adequate mandate for international law to proceed to action against Iraq, or whether a new resolution is needed in order to launch a military attack. It must be possible for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to say whether or not to do so. Today there is a sufficient mandate to take action against Iraq if Iraq violates the requirements of Resolution 1441 or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e365	At my discretion, the further process is very clear, namely that the matter is going back to the Security Council, and that someone there is going to discuss the matter and evaluate the report of the weapons inspectors. It is also in that case that there is a serious failure to meet the obligations of the United Nations on the part of Iraq. This means that the next phase of the Security Council will be crucial for how to proceed. And in that case, that finding must be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e370	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e373	I have a question for the Minister of Health about interaction between the first line service and the specialist health service. It has been revealed that there is quite a lack of patient information in terms of available capacity and free choice of hospital. In the evening post, the Minister of Health said this week: ‘Your doctor is your agent’. But is there enough resources in the primary health service, i.e., at the local doctor and the doctor, to have the ability to find the vacant capacity of the specialist health service in our hospitals? And is there any kind of interaction between the specialist health service and the primary health service about this that makes it possible, when there is a hopefully good enough system up and going – quite immediately – to determine where there is free capacity? The opposite of failing information and interaction is often the case when patients are discharged from hospitals. Does the Minister of Health mean, with the relatively hard printing that is now, that the municipalities are well enough able to take back these patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e382	Interactions between first- and second-line services in relation to patients are incredibly important, and it is not difficult to find examples of this interaction not functioning well enough. Luckily, though, there are also many good examples of how it works well. Recently I was in Orkdal, and there was a witness to a hospital that has employed primary doctors in 10 p.m. position in the hospital to make patient flow work much better between the two levels. It also happens elsewhere. There is no doubt that free hospital choice must be based on good access to waiting time information, and subsequently also quality in hospitals, in order for it to function well on the assumption. Now the extent and proportion of patients receiving treatment outside the area where they live is increasing. This suggests that free hospital choice works better than many claims. But we've been gripping the information challenge. I have decided that, from 1 May next year, a national free hospital choice unit will be set up, which should have the task of improving electronic information, telephone services, etc. At the same time, hospitals will be required to report waiting times more frequently, thus improving the updating of information. I would also like to show that this year we have tried electronic booking, where the primary doctor can go in and order an hour directly on a booking system in the hospital, and we will build it up next year. So I want to clearly answer that we're putting the assumptions much better into facilitating the primary doctors, in order to be the agents they're going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e393	I want to say that the ideal choice of the free hospital choice was if you had full capacity utilisation in the vicinity of the patients, and that at least you got that effect out of it. It can't be achieved when hospitals don't even input their numbers and run some kind of statistics in these systems. So I hope the Minister of Health will get to it as soon as possible. Then it is with these quality criteria that the Minister of Health is now flagging in the evening post. They shall be entered already on 1 January 2003. What do they go into? So I think it's interesting, in these budget days, again to ask the Minister of Health if he believes that the municipal economy is good enough, so that the municipal doctors, the district councillors, have the opportunity to connect to this system. And in relation to the quality when the patient is taken back, is it good enough to have access to resources and follow-up to an increasingly rapid release of the patients to the hospital, to home health care, and to medical monitoring and quality follow-up there? Does the Minister of Health think that the Government is following up an increasingly rapid discharge of patients into the budget now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e402	There were a lot of questions at once, but if the Minister of Health can answer them in a minute, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e405	At least you have to try. I believe that the free choice of hospitals is important in order to improve capacity utilisation, but it is also in itself an influence on hospitals to improve. Because the money follows the patients, losing patients will also mean losing income. That means that a free hospital choice that works well will put a general pressure on all hospitals to get better, and it will benefit all patients. It is true that we want to introduce some quality criteria in the follow-up to hospitals as early as next year, and we will eventually also put that kind of information into the information system for free hospital choice. In the case of ready-to-print patients, it is essential that there is good cooperation between hospitals and municipalities on a case-by-case basis. And it has to happen on an individual level. Resource problems can probably be pointed out in many places, but the most important thing is to get good practice and cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e416	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e419	The interaction between the first line service and the second line service is very important. But the most important thing to make this work is that information goes to the individual patient, the individual doctor and the individual social security office in these systems. The Minister of Health warned that he would also go in to use an electronic system to get an overview of what has to do with the use of capacity in healthcare. Will the Minister of Health ensure that a national database is established in order to be able to search for where capacity is available at all times? Will the Minister of Health also ensure that the private hospitals come under this now, so that a real choice can be made in this country? And will the Minister of Health ensure that sufficient resources are available to keep this database up to date at all times? For an unupdated database this operation is unusable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e426	Information to the patient and not least to the inpatient and referral physician is essential for this to work well. And I presented in my reply to the representative Glow Violence a series of actions that we are now taking to develop the services we actually have. It's not like we don't have a national database, but we're now going in to make sure that the numbers entered in the database are added more frequently. We're going to go in to make sure that the registration procedures are good enough to improve the quality of the numbers. We are developing a national health network between hospitals and primary doctors to provide a much faster and better accessibility in the communication between the different parts of the healthcare system, and we are developing and developing an electronic booking system, where the primary physician can approach outpatient clinics in the specialist healthcare service and immediately obtain the available treatment capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e431	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e435	Let me first assure Councillor Krohn Devold that the Workers' Party does not intend to cut the defence budget, as you could get the impression on the TV 2 news today. Then to the question: In the spring of 1999, the Stortinget decided to establish a regional training and shooting area for the Defence Departments in the East. There was a lot of discussion in the Labour Party, but we voted in favour. A modern defense needs a large field of practice, and here, for example, is training. our special forces together with allies. Before the decision 30 organisations were consulted. The Storting gave clear leadership, including: in order to protect the population against noise and, in particular, the environmental conditions were important. It is important that the local population can be safe at the presence of the Defense, whether it is in the Østerdalen or at Hjerkinn. Some now claim that environmental requirements have not been met in the Eastern Region. Can the State Council confirm that the Storing assumptions have been and will be followed in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e442	I have repeatedly answered questions in the ordinary Questionnaire relating to the environmental conditions of the region of Eastern Europe in addition to spring. Several reports have been prepared on this, including a report that clearly shows that the environmental situation is actually a little better than what was foreseen if the different criteria for environmental assessment are added together. I would like to point out, among other things: a report from NIVA presented in November 2001 summarising very clearly that the negative environmental effects of metal deposits with today’s ammunition accounts, including lead-free ammunition, are likely to be slightly less than what could be assumed from the ammunition accounts in KU 96. I don't have time to refer everything from this report, but the most important thing is that the environmental conditions are generally becoming more positive than assumed. What I want to add, however, is to realise this region area as the majority of the population has foreseen, a majority of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, it is important to have a good dialogue with local authorities. I think there's a clear common interest in ensuring a sufficiently good outdoor classroom for the FIST-H that's located to Rena. If we're going to do the division of the Army that we've added, with the 6th division in the north and the Rena in the south, both areas must have sufficient practice ratios. I would therefore encourage both municipal representatives and others who are in the areas around Rena to have a constructive dialogue with the Defence Force to resolve the further work on the plan that we have ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e451	The last thing I can do is join. I would also like to thank you for your answer. A modern defense requires, as we know, in many ways much more than before. Special skills, technology and cooperation between the weapons also characterise the exercises that we will have in such practice fields. The local population should know that the activities of the Defence Agency do not lead to major environmental pollution. I had almost said that it also does not lead to unexposed remains after cluster bombs on the Hierkin or elsewhere, or acidification of ants and water in the Østerdalen. It is important that the necessary studies are carried out and that the assumption that there are no major damage to valuable natural areas is followed. I'll ask the council to follow up and make sure that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e458	I can assure you that the whole project Regionfield Eastland is followed closely. It is Defence Buildings that are responsible for this project, and annual reporting is also carried out in the budgets and other documents that we submit to the Stortinget. This happened at the latest when we discussed the implementation proposal in the Stortinget in June, where a clear majority still support the project, although it is true that there is a minority, SV and the Central Party, who do not want a shootout field in the East. I would also like to add that there are many positive environmental impacts by realizing the Eastern Region. Among other things, several other firearms are released that are currently in use. One of them is located on Hjerkinn, and it is also an environmental benefit to have these other shooting grounds released, but unfortunately it cannot happen until the Eastern Region of the region is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e465	There will be follow-up questions – Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e468	It is important that people in the community can be sure that the environmental challenges are being followed up, and I hear the minister now saying that the environmental situation is better. Then I would like to ask two specific questions. First, white phosphorus. It was not particularly problematic in 1999. We know it's very toxic. We know that it has great consequences for our nature, and I want to ask if the Council of State can assure that the necessary steps have been taken to ensure that there are no irreparable damage to our environment, so this is new information. The second concerns Rena River, one of Norway’s most attractive fish rivers. There is now uncertainty about whether parts of it should also be included in the field, and of course there will be significant negative consequences for outdoor life and fishing. So my question is whether the Council of State can assure that the assumptions of the Storting are being followed in relation to the environmental consequences. What was not very problematic when we dealt with it here in Stortinget will be checked out, and can you be sure that there will not be irreparable damage to valuable natural areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e475	In the case of Rena River, exactly a sub-plan for that subject of municipal government treatment. Against local government, a number of sub-plans relating to the Eastern Region have begun to be dealt with, and a sub-plan has been adopted which includes the River Rena. I have full confidence that it will be possible to reconcile military activity with the environmental considerations that are important for the 11th. As regards the question of white phosphorus, it is correct that white phosphorus is used in smoke grenades fired to prevent the opponent from being given access to its own departments, inter alia. The main way to limit white phosphorus is, among other things, selecting appropriate target areas for which river run-off is not available and where other measures to be fully controlled can also be cleaned up or implemented to prevent the spread of such toxins to land and watercourses. This has been answered in three question-time questions in ours, and nothing particularly new has happened since that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e482	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e485	There is no doubt that the field, as it is currently planned, breaks the environmental assumptions in many areas. Then the main question is how the government handles this. In relation to the pollution law, the pollution authorities shall grant authorisation for the activities of pollutants on application. Such an application has still not been made. Nevertheless, you continue to give framework permits and allow the project to go its own way. The question of white phosphorus is part of this. It is a very serious toxic substance, for which an emission permit has not yet been granted, but which is still planned to be used. Does the Minister of Defence consider that it is appropriate for her activities to circumvent this law and that consideration be given to important environmental considerations to be taken into account in the pollution law?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e490	I do not agree with the questioner’s claim that the environmental conditions for Storting’s decision to establish the region of the East have changed radically. On the contrary. Following the completion of the impact study in 1998, independent trade union consultants have carried out follow-up investigations. The results show that the impact on nature, the environment and society is largely the same or slightly better than that presented to the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 11 for 1998-1999. This is also explained in a letter from the Ministry of Defence in July to two representatives of big business – I am on the move a little uncertain about which. The point is that reference is made to this NIVA report, which is the basis for the views of the Ministry of Defence on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e495	Per Roar Bredvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e499	The question of the interests of landowners is of great importance in extending the issue of regional areas. It may seem that the Defence Building and the Defence Agency do not have a full overview of this. Can the Council of State ensure that the interests of landowners are fully safeguarded financially and that compensation and financial compensation are maintained at 100 %?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e504	The interests of the landowners are followed closely by the Ministry of Defence. Among other things, there has been a meeting between the landowners and State Secretary Heløe. On the other hand, negotiations have been allocated to Defence Building, and I ask for an understanding that I can hardly go in and negotiate from the Parliamentary Chair. But I'm assuming that here it'll be possible to come up with a positive consensus. Although there will always be nuances when two parties have to assess the value implications of an expansion, it is natural that the landowners would wish to obtain the best possible clearance. It is also natural that the other party makes its own assessment. But I have every reason to believe that here you have good opportunities to come to a positive consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e509	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e512	My question goes to the Minister of Health. I have recently received notifications from health regions that I do not like, namely that healthcare companies are planning to cut off the treatment offer in 2003. In various contexts and at the latest in the present draft state budget, the Minister of Health has ensured that the difficult hospital economy should not lead to reductions in treatment services in our hospitals. I'm glad. Akershu Central Hospital has closed down geriatric unit these days, and the superior has been cancelled. Is the Minister of Health informed about this, and what has been done in the case of the Minister of Health to prevent that from happening? Can it not be that enterprises are so exempted from health policy priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e521	Health enterprises are not exempted from health policy priorities. They are not exempted from the decisions taken by the Stortinget, nor are they, of course, exempted from the budgetary requirements adopted by the Stortinget. The budgetary assumptions adopted by the Storting in the context of our revised national budget made clear the prerequisites for businesses to improve the efficiency of their operations. This implies looking at both the structure and the implementation of the operational arrangements, from different points of view. This may lead to changes in patient provision. But I attach great importance to following up what has been said in the budget, that the overall patient offer in 2003 should be a continuation of the high level we have in 2002. As part of the follow-up to health businesses, we have a dialogue in which they explain their plans. We had such a review this week at the latest. My impression from the information I have received from that review is that the search light is largely placed on administrative levels and efficiency in non-patient functions, and that you look at how the operation can be improved – the main emphasis of the efficiency measures lies there. As for the question about the geriatry at the University Hospital in Akershus, I would have to look into it in more detail before I can answer the representative Alvheim's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e528	I thank you for your answer. I assume that the Minister of Health does not believe that you should be so effective that you remove the patient services. You shouldn't be that effective! The number of older people is increasing, and geriatri has been a field of activity in recent years. The geriatric patients are a very weak but growing patient group, and cutting health services for this group does not seem to have to be reduced, but is constantly increasing. I am aware that several of the regional enterprises have developed plans for cutting health services in 2003 due to a difficult budgetary situation. Will the Minister of Health in his governance document for the enterprises in 2003 make it clear that the Storting will not accept any reductions in treatment provision for the weakest patient groups, such as geriatry and psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e535	I would like to continue in the newsletter to the hospitals the assumptions and decisions made by the Storting in the 2003 budgetary procedure. The intention of the Government’s proposal is to continue the overall patient offer. However, it cannot be seen in such a way on the part of Stortinget, when the Storting itself has adopted efficiency requirements in the billions of hospitals, that it should not lead to changes in patient provision. The important thing to be sure about is that the overall patient supply is continued and that no savings measures affecting weak groups are implemented. At that point, I fully agree with the representative of Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e540	There will be follow-up questions – Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e543	I hear what the health minister says, but there are constantly alarming messages that health companies and hospitals are running a huge deficit and are actually keeping current operations going using credits, i.e. borrowed money. With such an operation, I fear that the day of truth may come, and that this may lead to a reduction in treatment, for example. in maternity wards, emergency reception and rehabilitation, which one should have in place, especially if it is towards an ever-increasing deficit. My question is then whether the Council of State can clarify how he will deal with the danger signals that are now manifestly there, in relation to unwanted conversions and the closure of offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e548	It is important to distinguish between intended and undesirable effects. Hospitals are provided for to make billions of efficiencies. Asmund Kristoffersen has also been involved in the adoption. It is provided that hospitals are to be able to draw on operating credits during this important conversion period in which they are in. And it's assumed that hospitals will be able to cope with deficits in the current year and also next year. So it's not new bombs, it's actually been in documents that the government has presented to the Stortinget, and to which the Stortinget has joined. Having said that, I would also like to say that it is my opinion that health businesses have clear limits on the kind of adjustments and improvements they can make without conflicting with decisions and decisions taken by national health authorities and by the Storting. There we have mechanisms in the hospital reform that allow intervention and management from the owner’s side in that type of situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e564	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e568	The Minister of Health is entitled to implement efficiency measures in the hospital sector. At the same time, however, the Health Minister has been crystal clear – he said it to Dagbladet on 19 June, and has repeated it several times – that the psychiatry should be protected. It is now reported in the Health East, following decision of 30 October, that there will be significant cuts in relation to psychiatry in the eastern region. This will affect the Sogn Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry, and it will affect children’s and youth psychiatry in general. This means that children with psychosis, i.e. with visual and auditory hallucinations, with paranoid delusions, who are already waiting for treatment, have to wait further. This means that the group that the Minister of Health had had a chronicle two days ago in Dagbladet, i.e. those who have eating disorders, must wait even longer for treatment. This means that measures are being taken, as the Minister of Health himself has said, to protect them, and this is about cutting them off. 50 jobs only in childhood and youth psychiatry in Oslo. There are further cuts of the same magnitude at the Nic Waals Institute, which also contribute to child and youth psychiatry. This is contrary to what the Minister for Health has said. Will the Minister of Health now take action to put an end to the cuts in child and youth psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e575	The Minister of Health has intervened in this respect – and the representative of Ballo knows it. It is such that after rounds we have had here in Stortinget, I have taken this up with Health East and with the County Board in Oslo, and Health East has assured me that the treatment offered to children and young people in the psychiatry in the Oslo area of the current year will be maintained at least the level it was last year, and will be maintained at at least the same level next year. The representative to whom Mr Ballo refers is a non-finally adopted plan document, and the representative Mr Ballo knows very well that in budgetary procedures in different contexts proposals will be presented that will never be adopted. No final budget has been adopted for children's and youth psychiatry in Oslo, and I have received insurance from the healthcare company responsible here that the treatment offered to this group in the Oslo area is to continue the current year at least as high as last year's level. And it's going to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e582	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e585	We all agree that we need to look at what is going on in the organisation of the healthcare system, and the way in which you have built up your offer in some places. But it's a big leap from looking at the organisational aspect of actually considering cutting down departments because the economy of individual enterprises is so bad that you have to assess this. In view of the fact that the Minister for Health has a review of his health businesses – because he has the opportunity to do so through the individual governance documents that the Minister for Health can use in relation to the Business Meeting – is my question to the Minister for Health: Will the Minister for Health ensure that activities that can lead to longer waiting lists and poorer offers to Norwegian patients will not be the result of the poor economy of the individual hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e592	I think it is very important to hold on to the fact that there is a significant efficiency potential in Norwegian hospitals. It is also possible to treat far more patients within your resources than what is actually happening. We were inside child and youth psychiatry instead. Some of the institutions in the Oslo area have an productivity that does not tolerate today’s light – 0.8 patients per year. are treated per day. day(s) Here, in the guidance papers next year, I'm going to demand that you treat a lot more patients within the resources you actually have, because it's unethical not to do that when there's a lot of people waiting for treatment. With regard to the issue of changes in activities, it is my ambition that, to the extent that it should come up with proposals that clearly conflict with national health policy decisions and assumptions, I will address it and ensure that the owner’s side comes in, so that it is not implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e599	Ola D. Lukewarm – to the next, and definitely the last, follow-up questions in today's oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e602	The Minister of Health said that health businesses are not exempt, but that they can make structural changes and measures in this area to a large extent. Yes, but how much are these structural measures and changes going to carry by reductions in real terms, and how much should the distance from supply increase and treatment capacity decrease within the concept of ‘structural changes’? I remember the debate we had on the revised national budget six months ago. Nor was the will to give priority to hospital treatment. I believe that the increase in treatment capacity and the quality of treatment costs, and then there are questions about what is now being done, is particularly true. Psychiatry has been mentioned, in addition to food departments and rehabilitation. Now you lend money to competing rehabilitation agencies, and the emergency medical supply is in danger in many places, not least in relation to the ambulance service. Then the main question is: does the Minister of Health have enough power, and not least, does he have enough resources to control this, or is the health companies actually freed for economic reasons?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e609	The hospital reform means that health businesses have a freer position than if they were to be management activities. It implies, and there has been a desired situation from this room, that it should not be that one should enter from the political level – formerly the county, now nationally – and control the hospitals down at the postal level of each department. On the other hand, a national health policy is to be implemented, and I want to use the instruments in the business meeting, in the governance documents, in the planning and notification system – what is in the Health Business Act – to implement the Storting decision. When the representative Glötvold says that in the context of the revised national budget there was no willingness to prioritize the hospitals, that is not the case. What was prioritised in the revised national budget was two things: it was the hospital economy, and it was the defense. The budget allocated over NOK 2 billion extra to the hospitals in the revised national budget. So there's never been more resources and activity in hospitals than it is in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e618	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e623	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Johnny Hult to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Per Roar Bredvold. Question 8, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 9, from the representative May Hansen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family, who has been away. Question 12, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 23, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 16 from the representative of the Minister for Transport, Mr Froyn, has been withdrawn. Question 20, from the representative of Carsten Dybevig to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice, who is directly responsible. At the request of the State Council, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5 to be answered by the same State Council. Question 21, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for the Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 22 and 23, from the representatives of Sylvia Brustad and Mette Gundersen, respectively, of the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e651	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Norway itself means being a propelling country when it concerns the international non-proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons. Norway played a decisive role in the 2000 Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference. During the UN General Assembly, Norway recently refrained from supporting the New Agenda Coalition, which is trying to hold up the pressure to comply with nuclear disarmament obligations. What reason did the Government have to give up in this important cause of disarmament?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e660	Disarmament and non-proliferation are high priority tasks of the Government. Norwegian side played an important role in the 2000 Non-Proliferation Treaty surveillance conference for nuclear weapons. Norway’s bridge builder role here was possible precisely because all participating countries were prepared to obtain concrete results. New Agenda countries Brazil, Egypt, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Sweden and South Africa were central to the work of the Conference of Supervisors and promoted in the UN General Assembly the same harvest of a resolution on nuclear disarmament supported by Norway. New Agenda countries adopted a different and less cooperative approach this year. For Norway, the main objective of the work on disarmament at the General Assembly was to contribute to the best possible international negotiating climate on such issues. This is particularly important in view of the fact that the preparations for the next non-proliferation supervisory conference in 2005 continue until spring. I believe that the two resolutions on nuclear disarmament promoted by the New Agenda countries this year did not contribute to such an improvement in the negotiating climate. However, we agree with the main purpose of the resolutions, namely the need for further nuclear disarmament and for greater transparency, including for tactical nuclear weapons. We then also called for this at the General Assembly. Norway and a number of other countries were in dialogue with the New Agenda countries with a view to reaching decisions that could bring together the widest possible support and, in our opinion, served the purpose best. So this didn't prove possible, and we're sorry about that. When we chose to abstain during the vote on the two resolutions, it was because we found the texts not fit to promote nuclear disarmament. It's the nuclear powers that hold the key to further progress. In my view, such a critical and nuanced presentation of progress in nuclear disarmament work as the New Agenda countries presented this time is not appropriate. All our European allies shared this view, and voted renunciation or against the resolution. The results of the vote also show that the New Agenda resolution by many other countries was seen as less constructive than last time. Nearly 40 countries that voted in 2000, this time chose to vote against or abstain.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e678	I thank you for your answer. Now, one and a half years after the Supervisory Conference, the United States has broken by more than half of the 13 steps contained in the Non-Proliferation Agreement. What has the Government done to demonstrate the nuclear states to launch the 13 steps for disarmament and non-proliferation from the 2000 Conference of Supervisors?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e685	I have to say that we have now left the vote, on which Mr Jacobsen really asked questions. I just want to stress that we stand fully behind the vote that we had in the year 2000 and that I mentioned. We also had activity in connection with the General Assembly in the autumn, where we then tried to get resolutions that brought this matter forward and that did not create new confrontations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e690	I thank you again for your answer. Next year, in April/May, there shall be a preparatory conference for the Non-Proliferation Agreement to take place at the bottom of the five-year supervisory conferences to be held in the future. What kind of thinking and what sort of priorities does the government have within this conference, we're talking about the future of the whole non-proliferation regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e699	I find that we are not in the vicinity of the question that was originally asked this time either. I just want to say that we are now preparing the conference and going back to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e707	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘Vestfold municipality Re’s investment firm Nordea Finanz has now sold its shares in TotalFinaElf, France, under pressure from the municipality. This happens after revealing that the company is under investigation for child labour and forced labour in Burma. The oil fund has invested $2 billion. kr in this company, in addition to the company having exposures on a Norwegian base. Will the Government have implications for Norway’s relationship with TotalFinaElf?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e716	The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the management of the State Petroleum Fund, and I will therefore concentrate on answering that part of the question that concerns the Petroleum Fund. The Minister of Oil and Energy is, as you know, responsible for the operation on a Norwegian base. The Petroleum Fund is invested in countries with which Norway has extensive trade. Companies must comply with the national legislation of the countries in which they operate. In order to ensure that the investment of the Petroleum Fund is not contrary to international law, the so-called extractive mechanism for the Fund was established last year. The Government has set up a Council to assess questions of international law following enquiries by the Ministry of Finance. This council had in spring's assessment the question of whether an investment through the Petroleum Fund could violate the international obligations regarding human rights. The Council pointed out that certain provisions of the Convention provided for an international obligation of activity and that it could not be excluded that investment in companies with activities covered by such provisions could be contrary to international law. This concerns the provisions of the UN Convention on the Sexual Exploitation of Children and the Sale of Children and of ILO Convention No. 182 on child labour. On the basis of the International Law Council’s assessments, the Government announced in the revised national budget that this year a systematic investigation would investigate whether there are companies in the portfolio – the Petroleum Fund – operating in contravention of, among others. those Conventions. The Ministry of Finance is in the process of concluding an agreement with an external consultant to filter the portfolio – i.e. review with a view to recommending an exclusion – for companies that have been affected by these provisions of international law to which I have referred. This will be implemented from the turn of the year. If TotalFinaElf has an activity that is covered by the above conventions, the company will be assessed excluded under the extractive mechanism of the Fund. The Government has recently established, on the basis of the Storting’s request, a public body to propose ethical guidelines for the State Petroleum Fund. This sample shall report before the summer of 2003. The report will then be sent to the hearing. Based, inter alia, on: The report of the sample and the consultation opinions will be submitted by the Government to the European Parliament in spring 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e731	I thank you for your answer. What I'm asking is, will the government possibly take some steps before this sample starts its job? For the Government is also independent of this and can take steps on its own. And when we have a prime minister who is so engaged in Burma, and it turns out that the forced labour and child labour of which this particular company has used has just taken place in Burma, I wonder if it could be thought that the Prime Minister will get high before this selection starts to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e738	It is rare for me to have questions about whether the Prime Minister will come up high. But if the question is meant to be addressed to the Minister of Finance, I will answer that the Government, as I have just answered in my post, will carry out a so-called filtering of the portfolio, i.e. review of companies in which the Petroleum Fund has investments, in order to see if there are any of these that violate the international obligations we have within, among others. The Children’s Convention and the ILO Convention on Child Labour. So the answer to the question is yes. We do not await this sample's investigation until we review the portfolio with a view to these areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e743	In this case, I expect that if it turns out from the investigation that is now taking place in France, TotalFinaElf has used both forced labour and child labour, among other things. The ILO, which is the UN's own body, has revealed, the Government will go directly in and say: we do not accept that the Norwegian oil fund is investing in this company, because we believe that the Norwegian people should not be indirectly held responsible for abuses against children and workers in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e748	I would like to stress that the Ministry of Finance has no basis to say if TotalFinaElf violates the guidelines per. today. What is now available is an investigation. Only the outcome of this could give assurances if you actually break international conventions, and then the Government will proceed in the way described in the revised national budget, i.e. through the extraction mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e756	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «According to the Evening Post, the State has granted a monopoly on the production of pallets by its prisons to one company. Competitors claim that this results in job losses and impossible competitive conditions when a firm obtains reasonable labour through such an agreement. What will the Council of State do in this regard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e765	Under the Penal Code, prisoners have an activity obligation in the implementation of prison sentences. This obligation may consist of work, training, programmes or other measures, and criminal services are obliged to provide prisoners with an activity offer to the extent practicable. Prisoners are also entitled to a job offer, and I have no initial concerns about letting private operators join in and contribute to the provision of a job offer to prisoners. The prison administration concluded the first cooperation agreement with Aven AS on 1 March 1973. This agreement was linked to the activities of the Ilseg Working Colony. Following this, several agreements were concluded with other prisons, and the company is currently operating at five prison units, three of which are working colonies. The basis for the conclusion of the contract was that short-term convictions should be able to obtain meaningful and productive work that required limited training. This results in the correctness, as Mr Enoksen points out, that there is essentially one company, Aven AS, which has concluded agreements with the criminal services concerning the production of pallets and is thus the main player in this context at this stage. However, I would like to stress that it is important that the agreements on criminal law are concluded with private enterprises, whether in the field of works contracts or other services, subject to general competition rules. In the general guidelines on the operation of the prison system, given by the Ministry of Justice on 29 February 2000, it is clear that future contracts between the criminal services and private operators in the field of work operations will only be concluded after a regular tendering round. This will help to ensure equal treatment and competition between operators operating on the market. In the case of contracts between Aven AS and the Criminal Service, these are being revised in accordance with the new guidelines as old contracts expire. Here I can show that the East Region, at the end of the production agreement between Aven AS and Trugstad prison, sent out in the summer of 2001 an invitation to 100 NHO companies to compete for a new production agreement with the prison. The possibility of entering into production cooperation with the prison was announced in the Öllningsbladet etc. in accordance with normal tendering procedures. The result of the tendering round was that Aven AS was the only one who offered an offer, and the company is therefore still engaged in the work operation at Trøgstad in prison. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned that there should be clear procedures for the cooperation of criminal services with private companies. It is an important point that several actors are involved in competing for open contracts in order to ensure that criminal services are also able to benefit from the best offers at all times. I want to ensure that this case is followed up so that all new production agreements between the criminal services and private operators are concluded after the usual bidding round.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e780	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is very positive that it has been taken to ensure that others too will be able to get the kind of agreements that I have seen in the media representatives of the company themselves characterise as a gold-plated agreement – right before the new guidelines were adopted. This is an unusual offer. It is not a goal for the Government to get the cheapest possible agreement, but an agreement that provides the best possible payment for the services provided by the State through prison inmates to private companies. The company Aven has had a very long contractual relationship with the state, from 1973. It has significant market power and has some significant equipment at many of its prisons. It will therefore be difficult for others to compete with these. There must be a goal for the Government to avoid a monopoly situation. One thus has to facilitate the possibility for more people to receive this type of tender, and there may have to be some intervention in order for it to be possible. I would like to ask the Council of State if he is willing to take the necessary steps in order for us to have a real competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e789	I have to deal with the competition rules that were introduced in 2000. If someone's been for a while, they'll have market power because they've been there. This will be the case in a number of areas where tenders and competition are put in place. Whether there is something about the tender specification itself or the call for tenders that can ensure that the basis is optimal for other actors, I will at least take the initiative to review it, and see if it is possible, because of course I have the same interest as the representative expresses in his question to me, namely that it should be a real competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e794	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good that the Council of State intends to follow it up that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e802	‘Criminality related to nightlife appears to be very extensive and varied. Illegal meat and spirits, poor hygiene conditions, bankruptcy, tax evasion, violation of the work environment law and a lot of violence in and around the tipping points are no longer uncommon. Will the Council of State take specific initiatives aimed at this industry which facilitate the publication of these sites and subsequently the right to donation and operation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e809	The outdoor industry has had to endure a very critical search light recently. Unfortunately, there have been some very serious violations of the rules in the case of restaurants and restaurants in several places in the country. In particular, a number of relations in Oslo have been revealed since I one year ago initiated a project in Oslo with coordinated controls between police and several state and local authorities. The conditions identified are totally unacceptable. It should be a matter of course for the public to be able to trust that food and drink are treated and served in a fully secure manner, and that the service points otherwise comply with the rules and regulations applicable in the industry. In my opinion, today's legislation is essentially sufficient in order to adopt and impose penalties on those companies that do not comply with the applicable rules. These include: strict quality rules in food law, while the alcohol law, on the other hand, has strict standards of good conduct in order to be granted and to retain the right to drink. In addition, the municipality may grant donations in the event of a breach of the alcohol law and other laws relating to donation. The police have the right to close a dead end for up to two days. In the case of the food law, it also provides the police with the option of shutting down the catering business for up to four days. Otherwise, the municipality may suspend the service authorisation in the event of a crime. It is important that the municipality collects public permits or closes serving and serving places where the check reveals serious violations of the rules, and then that the audience knows which places are closed for a short period of time or for a longer period of time. Otherwise, the various laws do not prevent the control authorities from publishing which serving or serving points have received orders or remarks. Much depends on the practice that has been followed over the years by the municipality. Good reasons can be given both for the publication of such information and for its silence. On the issue of concrete initiatives, I can inform you that there are regular meetings between the industry and the departments involved where we go through a number of issues related to crime and the violation of rules in the restaurant industry. With regard to publication in particular, it seems to me that there is a question of which practice each municipality chooses to follow, both in terms of the publication of the results of its control work and in terms of the strictness of the withdrawal of public funds. However, through the contact work I have, I want to ensure that this topic is reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e826	I thank you for your answer. When you get the descriptions you have received in the last days on matters that have lasted for a long time, there is a question as to whether it is sufficient to the industry with just conversations to clean up this. My search for the initiative of the Minister of Justice is precisely based on the fact that if we are to be able to prevent crime, we must not only react with severe penalties and a lot of police when crime has arisen. I think maybe some of the most important justice minister can now do, is just look at the tipping points, especially in the larger cities. We see a lot of violence, we often see some breaches of legislation, and we see a lot of money laundering, which is absolutely reason to do something about, something more than conversations with the industry. I really want the Minister of Justice's initiative in relation to action, in relation to structure. You can do something for, among other things. to limit the number of sites and to create stricter legislation that might make it the serious ones that are allowed to operate in the industry and not the unprofessional ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e833	Now I mean to remind you from my script that I talked about something more than conversations with the industry. I talked about contacts with the department concerned, and I, for Oslo's part, would like to add the municipality. This is a structure that exists because you just want to be out there fighting crime. I have been concerned about this for a long time, also in advance of this question-time question. What I'm referring to is that this structure allows for cooperation between the municipalities concerned, for example. Oslo, department affected by different types of legislation, and the industry. When I mention the industry, it is because it is important to take seriously that the industry, together with the trade unions, will mobilise, so that you can react in time, and that you set up as a partner, as responsible citizens to fight crime. So the structure we have is just created because we're going to be able to prevent, detect and control. And that will be part of the review that, among other things, is scheduled for a work meeting in the near future, to look at what experience is now being gained. When it comes to publication, I've already said that I want to look at it. And I've noticed the practice that's been put into practice in Oslo, among other things. with the blessing of the City Council, to speak plainly about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e842	It is a paradox that it is said that the legislation is far enough, but at the same time it seems, according to today's newspapers and newspapers from the past, that the public has hesitated to publish the companies that operate illegally. You hesitate to withdraw the grant, sail if you donate illegal liquor, and you are allowed to donate the other goods. And you hesitate to use the sanctions that are in the law. That is why I believe that we, as political authority and the Minister of Justice, should be responsible for this field in relation to criminal acts, just to do the law so that it is actually used, and to have effective administration. It is said that an allowance should be easy to get and easy to lose. In the wake of this, we see that a grant is easy to obtain, but very difficult to lose, and that the penalty means actually don't work. It requires exceptional measures in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e849	Let me take an example that goes on publication. Let's say that the supervisory authorities, based on a lead value assessment, are closing, and then you get samples analysed. The result comes first, because you want to be sure what it is, but you've already reacted in a way that closes. My general impression, based on the cooperation that exists between the different departments and different public agencies, both municipal and state, is that we work together just because we have to react. You have to react in such a way that you are effective and knock it down. The main headlines presented by the media are just about finding disturbing relationships that have been reacted to both with rigour and determination. To be sure of the overall experience, I have been involved in creating such a structure as the representative asked for. That structure is what I intend to use, because we want to prevent crime, fight it and avert it with the means that the law gives us, and possibly also new initiatives where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e859	This question, from the representative Johnny Hult to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e862	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Nord-Odal in Hedmark, like other officers’ offices, does not have enough crews to maintain a full-time back-up system. At the same time, when you see that Swedish police just across the border are being reduced, this doesn't look good for Hedmark as a border state. Does the Council of State see that more money is needed, so that people can be sure that when they need help, it is getting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e871	In the context of police reform 2000, former Hamar, Kongsvinger and Østerdal police districts were merged into a new one, Hedmark Police District, with effect from 1 January 2002. In the period following the merger, Hedmark police districts, like other police districts, have carried out a number of organisational and service assessments to achieve the main objectives of the reform, such as: is a more service-efficient and cost-effective body, and not least a body that more effectively prevents and combats crime. Based on this overall perspective, Hedmark police districts have also prepared for the implementation of the reform. The district shall review all its service arrangements during 2003. In the south of the police district, where, among others: The North Odal County of Länsmann is already well under way in this process. The working group is expected to have developed a new service list, which will provide a significantly more active police service in the Kongsvinger region before the end of the current year. This work also includes the inclusion of Nord-Odal in a back-up vigilance cooperation. It is therefore expected that a clear improvement will be achieved for the public in terms of the presence and availability of police services. A similar review of the manning situation is now ongoing in the police throughout the country with a view to achieving an improved allocation of personnel resources in accordance with the new district structure of the Police and National Police College. Summarized, and based on the information available to me, the resource situation and disposal in Hedmark Police District seem to be such that the public can be confident that the district police service provides the necessary assistance and assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e889	I thank the Council of State for the answer. A better provision of services to the public is expected. As it works today, this is not good enough. On 1 January 2002, Hedmark was established as a police district, and during 2003, according to the Council of State’s response, the district is to review all its service arrangements, i.e. two years with perhaps some uncertainty for the population. At the same time, when one sees that on the other side of the border, namely in North Värmland, there is reason to be somewhat skeptical about the service to be provided to the inhabitants. If this is an economic issue, – as the Progress Party wishes – more money must be provided to this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e898	I have said in my first answer that a working group is expected to come up with a new service list, which will provide a more active police service in the Kongsvinger region, before the end of the current year. This work also includes the inclusion of Nord-Odal in a back-up vigilance cooperation. A clear improvement is expected for the public regarding the presence and availability of police services. Otherwise, Hedmark's police district gives me the information that after their observation, North Odal, which is seven miles from the border, has so far had no problems in particular compared to other districts related to border-related crime. But the representative has a crucial point. One has to accompany, as other representatives in this Chamber have also taken up earlier, and that is why initiatives have also been taken to ensure that actions are taken near border areas, inter alia. in order to combat the illegal activity of criminals who might take advantage of the limit that we now have, following the Schengen Agreement. It's an initiative that I've asked the Police Directorate to follow up in all border areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e905	I thank the Council once again for the answer, especially the last half, where he came into this with borders, because that is often where the problem is. A while ago, in the Glåmdalen newspaper, we could read about a man who was killed in Kongsvinger. He went to the local waitress – or if it was to the police office, I'm a little unsure about it – and was met with a closed door, but was connected to Hamar. Regardless of the example of this person, does the council realize that people would feel safer if, in such a big city as Kongsvinger after all, you had an office and a watchman around the clock, a weekend like everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e912	In the arrangement of life, I have personally met this person mentioned. He said that after not so long a police patrol came. It did not happen the way he was used to before, but he took the episode up with me so that I should be aware of what happened locally, in the same way that the representative is concerned about it. He said that once the police were notified, they were very kind and kind to him. It is precisely what is meant by the review of the reform that the police should be available. They don't have to be available the way they were before, that they're sitting at the station all day, but there should be people available, for example. in the form of patrols or otherwise. I know the example well, and I promised the person to take it with me when I later followed up the office management of the Police Directorate and the police reform in the various districts, and in this case Hedmark police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e919	We're now going to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e925	This question, from the representative of Carsten Dybevig to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Justice who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e928	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘An additional means of transport is provided for asylum seekers who have been refused residence in Norway. However, the flow of asylum seekers into Norway is greater than the number transported. Nor does there exist a central, coordinated database between Aetat, social security offices, social services and other public registers today that will facilitate police work on tracing asylum seekers. What will the Council of State do to establish such a coordinated, central base to make transport more efficient?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e937	The representative Mr Dybevig's question is addressed to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs. As the question also concerns the Ministry of Justice's area of responsibility and competence, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and I have found it appropriate that I should give the answer to the representative's question. Both the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and I consider it very important to have asylum seekers transported out after rejection of the application and others without a valid stay in Norway. We are now transporting far more people than before. So far, the police have transported out 5,928 people. In addition, 712 people have volunteered with IOM, the International Organization for Migration. There are no immediate plans to establish a coordinated central base between Aetat, Social Security Office, Social Security Office and other public registers. Our opinion is that a coordinated base between these agencies will not significantly facilitate the police's efforts to track down asylum seekers. Asylum seekers with final negative decisions do not have rights under social services law. Social offices shall refer asylum seekers with negative decisions back to reception. Asylum seekers with final negative decisions do not initially have a work permit. However, the police have direct access to the People's Register and the Foreign Control Register and may obtain information from other registers, including: The register of employees. In the next year, however, we will have a coordinated database for the police, the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department that will improve the effectiveness of foreign field work. This system, called DUF, will be both a personal register and a case handler database. In addition to information relating to the procedure, information on the place of residence will be provided. An asylum seeker may live either on reception or privately. Where there is reason to believe that a non-resident will refrain from implementing decisions, Section 41 of the Foreign Affairs Act provides that a foreigner may be required to have a specific place of residence. If the asylum seeker does not live at the indicated address, the police would have to use common investigation methods to track him down. However, there is no lack of information on the place of residence which poses the main problem of having asylum seekers transported out by final negative decision. The main reason why it may take a long time to have non-residents transported without the right to stay here is that approx. 90 pst. by those required to be transported by the police, have insufficient travel documents. In many cases, passports or other documents are kept hidden. The police must therefore make substantial efforts to establish the identity so that the country in question is willing to issue travel documents. A number of measures have recently been put in place to improve the efficiency of shipments. I would like to mention in particular that a cross-ministerial working group in the foreign field has now been set up to improve the effectiveness of police identification and deportation work and other measures to facilitate transport, including: agreements with the countries of origin concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e956	It was said by the Minister of Justice that there is no particular problem in relation to the lack of a coordinated base. In Norway, social assistance is provided, and public support is given even if an asylum application has been refused, and then a public system and a database is in place to obtain financial support from either social security offices, social services or, where appropriate, Aetat, as long as there is a system that provides them with financial support. In the Netherlands, no financial support is granted if the asylum application is rejected after the second treatment. Is it possible to introduce such a thing in Norway? The aim is to deal with an asylum application in Norway within eight days, while it actually takes 71 days. In addition to the first question, which was whether you want such a Dutch model to refuse financial support, I have a question: what do you want to do to reduce treatment time from 71 days to eight days?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e965	As regards the general work on improving the effectiveness of the procedure in relation to the asylum application itself, there is a work on which the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, with the bodies for which she is responsible, has put considerable pressure on and where results have also been achieved in the form of faster procedures. There's a reason to register. In addition, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has said that those who have been finally rejected should not receive public support in the form of social assistance, so that mitigation has already been clearly signalled by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. What I see as the main concern of the representative is what is needed to get the shipment going. Here I have shown that through the new data register that we will have at our disposal for the foreign administration and the police, we will have a more effective tool than today. But at the same time, I have said that it is not the transport capacity that is crucial now, but it is simply work to obtain travel documents that are accepted in the country that will receive them. And here, there's now a considerable pressure for this to be streamlined, so people shouldn't be here in the country when they don't have the right to be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e972	I note that there is a clear improvement in the treatment of asylum seekers and that there has been a clear increase in the number of asylum seekers who have been transported in relation to the number of asylum seekers who have come to Norway. But you also have to look at it in relation to the total reception capacity we have in Norway. If it is always the case that more asylum seekers and fewer people are being transported out, then there is a problem with regard to reception capacity. Will the Minister of Justice be willing to use other than the police to arrange transportation? And in addition, I would like to ask the following question: how competent is the UDI to use the Dublin Convention to prevent so-called asylum shopping, that is. asylum seekers who go from one country to another and apply for asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e979	As far as the latter is concerned, it seems to me that the foreign authorities are making considerable efforts to be competent both in national and international cooperation to deal with matters of legal certainty correctly, but also effectively, as the representative in his question is concerned. When it comes to the question of whether someone can use someone other than the police, it is the police who are to implement the coercive decision. However, in the context of a framework independent decision taken in the budget for the current year, asking for a possible tender situation in which private prisoners could be transported under police management, the Ministry of Justice has requested that this work also include the transport of asylum seekers. It is a working group that has now given its first position on a possible tender procedure for the use of police under the supervision of the police in the event of the transport of prisoners. The Group is now in the process of looking at the work associated with similar schemes for the outsourcing of asylum seekers and as a testing scheme. This is in addition to decisions taken here in Stortinget earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e986	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e992	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The rehabilitation institution Nordagutu training centre now wishes to liquidate the owner, Telemark County Council. In the light of the Business Act, will the Council of State, as soon as possible, ensure that the Nordagutu training centre is transferred to Health South and incorporated in the health company Rikshospitalet together with the Coastal Hospital and Kongsgårdheimen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1001	The Ministry of Health has made it clear by letter of 18 October this year to Telemark County Municipality that the Ministry considers Nordagutu Training Centres as covered by the State acquisition of the specialist health care, regulated by the Health Enterprise Act § 52 paragraph. 6th@item: inlistbox Telemark County, on the other hand, has communicated that they disagree with our conclusion. If there is no agreement between the State of Telemark County and the State, at the Ministry of Health, on the ownership of the Nordagutu Training Centre, then one of the States will promote the case for the purpose of dealing with disputes with the county councils. It is referred to as ‘State acquisition of the specialist health service’. This is the established system for dealing with disagreements, as also stated in the Health Business Act § 52 paragraph. 9th@item: inlistbox It has been suggested that disputes with Telemark County Council should be dealt with in the spring of 2003. One has seen from the department that the disagreement between the county and the state has created some uncertainty about the operation of the Nordagutu training centre. Of course, that's unfortunate. The Ministry of Owning and Health South, as a regional health business, has therefore come to the conclusion in consultation that a scheme should be established to guarantee the functioning of the institution during this transitional period. This is also stated in a letter dated 15 November. from the department of Health South. I have also been pleased to see that the Telemark County Municipality has expressed a positive opinion in terms of ensuring the operation of the institution during a transitional period. I am therefore totally optimistic about the fact that the property dispute will not affect the operation of the institution. If the specific denominator is that the State has acquired the Nordagutu training centre, then this is the State, at the regional health enterprise, as the Health Enterprise Act has determined. In this context, this is Health South. The Ministry, which owns the regional health enterprise, may, of course, affect the organisation and placement of the Nordagutu training centre in relation to the other health enterprise structure. However, it is my view that this is a question that should be dealt with primarily by Health South, in the new system that we have after the hospital reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1012	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that the people of Telemark and the employees of the Nordagutu training centre are very pleased with the answer the Minister of Health has now given. After all, it would be pointless to sell or liquidate the Nordagutu training centre, which has served in the specialist health service in Telemark for very many years. The Nordagutu training centre is an institution approved in Group I and has good results. Health South has a major shortage of rehabilitation sites. Any sale or closure of the Nordagutu training centre will be a disaster for Health South in terms of moving in the patient flow. The training centre is part of the specialist health service and is clearly covered by the State acquisition, cf. § 52 nr. of the Health Business Act 6th@item: inlistbox My question to the Minister of Health may not be so easy to answer. It would have been nice if the state negotiators had in their time been awake, so that we had escaped the insecurity we have had around the institution – among patients now, among future patients and also among employees. Does the Minister of Health specifically know why it was not included from the beginning?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1021	I don't want to go into this kind of speculation about what's the reason this institution wasn't involved from the beginning of the transfer to the health company and the state. I find that the state and the county council now have a different opinion about it. Then we have to clarify the matter through the mechanisms that the Storting has decided to be there to resolve such disagreement. But when that is said, I hope that what has now been said by me, what has been done by Health South, and the attitudes expressed by the county council, are sufficient to dispel the uncertainty that may have been created.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1028	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. The situation at the Nordagutu training centre is now that patients have received a withdrawal from 23 December. The county council says they're advertising the institution for sale these days. It is therefore urgent to transfer the institution to Health South as soon as possible. I assume that one with the transfer to Health Sør repays the operating grant for the current year, NOK 2 800 000, as the operation of the Nordagutu training centre has actually been a state responsibility from 1 January of this year, but has not been formally in place in that way. Does the Minister of Health agree with the assessment that the county municipality must, of course, recover the operating resources they have committed to the institution – an institution for which they are not really responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1039	I think the matter has been resolved either in an amicable way between the state and the county council or through the clarification mechanism that is in the denominator. If the conclusion becomes clear to the State that this is part of the specialist health service, the State assumes both obligations and rights in relation to that institution from the date of the entry into force of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1048	‘In Ullevål Hospital, overcapacity in cardiac surgery is reported, while 1200 surgery is now performed at the Fairing Clinic annually. The activities of the Feiring Clinic are financed from public health budgets, and this situation contributes to poor overall resource use, since Ullevål is subject to a non-reducing preparedness, despite overcapacity. Will the Council of State implement measures to counter this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1055	First, I would like to say that on behalf of the patients, it is very satisfying that there is no waiting time for cardiac operations in the central eastern region. In other words, the capacity for planned treatment of heart disease is good in the Health East. However, ensuring good use of capacity is a challenge for the health region, while ensuring the patient’s free hospital choice. Health East has recently carried out a cardiology study as part of its project to implement a new health business structure and functional and task distribution in the region. The group of experts in cardiology has recommended that Ullevål University Hospitals should be given increased activity in surgery, including: to maintain their university functions. It is recommended to increase up to 800 heart operations — from a level of approx. 500 – in addition to the pulmonary surgery at Ullevål. Getting a sufficient volume of treatment is essential for maintaining quality, both in treatment, in teaching and in specialisation. Health East, according to the law, has responsibility for the inhabitants of the five health counties in the health region. This implies a follow-up to the fact that patients actually receive the treatment they require. This is ensured through the ownership of public health undertakings and through negotiations and agreements with private hospitals and service providers on the services to be provided, to what extent and at what price. Regional health businesses are responsible for providing patients with a good treatment offer and facilitating the patient’s right to free hospital choice. At the same time, account shall be taken of the fact that private operators are an important and necessary complement and corrective factor to the public-owned specialist health service. In the light of the premises on heart surgery given by the majority of the Social Committee in the treatment of St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002 in spring, in its governance dialogue with regional health businesses, the Ministry will follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1064	We are now recording that hospitals through healthcare companies are struggling with the economy, and that a number of conversion processes are underway. The consequence of also struggling with financial problems related to the heart surgery at Ullevål may be that, in a competitive situation, for example, with the Feiring Clinic, professionals will be lost, and a professional challenge is needed, that development is needed, both in terms of speciality and in order to maintain it. Based on the figures I've got from Ullevål, some heart surgeons at the Feiring Clinic make 92,000 dollars a week of heart surgery there. That means that if you had just worked there, you could have earned up to a couple million dollars in half a year. It is clear that this is demoralising and decrorating in relation to the specialist health services in public hospitals, and the concern is that public funds are being used. Will the Minister of Health contribute to measures that can work smoothly, so as not to lose professionals from the public and into other institutions, which are the consequence of that kind of disparate payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1073	It is not the Minister of Health who is negotiating the salary of the doctors at the Feiringklinik. That's why I'm going to refrain from going into an assessment of their salary level. The problem pointed out by the representative, Ballo, is the hospital owner’s problem. Having said that, I certainly believe that Health East, based on its "care for" responsibilities, has the possibilities they need to ensure a good distribution of patients while at the same time caring for patients' free hospital choices. Both are important. I want to see through the governance dialogue that it happens on the basis of the leadership of the Stortinget in the treatment of St.prp. No 59 in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1080	I would like to stress that I and SV are very happy that you have a capacity within heart surgery that avoids waiting time. At the same time, we are concerned that resources need to be used in such a way that they are treated as much as possible and at an appropriate level. However, if the funds are used to a large extent for high pay for health professionals, there will in principle be fewer treatment for the same amounts. What is also seen at the Feiringklinik is the development of a rehabilitation facility, without any official approval, in parallel with the fact that both hospitals with rehabilitation units and rehabilitation centres are struggling with poor finances. The Minister of Health may well take the view that it is the responsibility of health businesses to agree on remuneration. At the same time, however, the Minister of Health must see the overall responsibility he has for the proper use of the funds, so that the public does not undermine public activity through its resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1087	I am pleased that the representative Ballo sees the positive in the removal of the cardiac cows and that patients receive treatment much faster than before. The fact that patients largely prefer treatment at a private clinic that is publicly funded does not seem to cause me to worry. But it is important to make sure that our university hospital, Ullevål, has sufficient patient base to perform its important functions. So we have a state regional enterprise that is responsible for both the agreements and the grants to the private clinic and that owns and operates the University Hospital Ullevål. On this basis, I believe that it must be possible for Health East to grasp this. They have done so through the investigation of the cardiology that they have carried out. I want to follow up on how they deal with this, so that both the consideration of patients' free hospital choices and the consideration that we should have a powerful university hospital on Ullevål is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1097	This question, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1100	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The future of Norwegian offshore industry is increasingly present in floating and mobile installations, combined with subsea solutions. If Norwegian shipping does not obtain European competitive conditions, what consequences do the Councils of State see for offshore activity in the North Sea and for the internationalisation of Norwegian offshore industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1109	The activities on Norwegian pedestal currently operate under two different regulations for recruitment. Fixed installations, floating and movable installations, rigs and storage ships operate in an offshore regime, while service vessels, such as: supply boats, stand-by boats, ropeboats and bow loaders, operate under a shipping regime. An essential part of the vessels operating on Norwegian base today are owned by Norwegian shipping companies and crewed by Norwegian seafarers. Different conditions of competition may result in vessels on a Norwegian plough to a greater extent being manned by foreign seafarers. Today, a large number of Norwegian-owned service vessels operate internationally with partly Norwegian crews. The Norwegian share of the crew on these vessels may be reduced as a result of unequal conditions of competition. It will not in itself affect the offshore activity of the North Sea or the internationalisation of the ship-based Norwegian oil and gas industry. Shipping is an important part of the Norwegian oil and gas industry. The Government will work to further develop and internationalise the Norwegian oil and gas industry, and in this context will place considerable emphasis on continuing the competences built up in this part of our offshore business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1121	I have followed with great interest the development of a maritime cluster in the West. The centre party believes it is very important to maintain the unique competence that exists there. The maritime element in the offshore industry is growing. Of a total of 350 Norwegian eight ships in the petroleum industry, only a 60's are in the Norwegian base. Corresponding: Of almost 50 rigs in Norwegian eggs, only a few are on Norwegian soil. The maritime offshore business has thus been able to establish itself internationally, has our tenants and is there before service supply and anchor handling, and is leased before rigging and drilling. And in order to develop new technology and expertise based in Norway, it's important, we think, to keep up with a complete maritime environment, with Norwegian seafarers and with Norwegian shipping companies. If part of this cluster is confused, it has a domino effect even in other areas which will be marked quickly. Does the Council agree with such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1130	I agree that we have very important environments related to the maritime industries, and that it is important to maintain these environments, including in terms of competence and its further development. I believe that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is working very closely with the petroleum industry both in terms of maintaining and further developing its competence. It may apply in the field of education, research cooperation and research. We also know that there is a lot of money in education. But it is clear that it is demanding, even for the industry itself, and it has, among other things, the relationship with how well a thing to recruit, for example. youth to these industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1137	I've been following former staging representative Einar Steensnæs' commitment over the year to securing Norwegian shipping. I've also followed Right's commitment here in the Storting. I have a letter here from May last year, which is written to the Norwegian Maritime Association. The letter is signed by Jan Petersen. He stresses that the Right believes that there should be a level playing field for seafarers in Norway and in the EU. The bigger was the surprise when the state budget came this year, where a government where both the Right and the Christian People's Party are represented, well cut out a reimbursement scheme, and choose to opt out to secure a level playing field. I believe that there is an underestimation in the Council of State response here of the relationship between the petroleum industry and shipping. Can the answer today still mean that the Council of State and the Government will look again at Norwegian shipping their framework conditions and a level playing field for Norwegian seafarers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1146	The government's proposals for the government budget have been presented and, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa is well-known, it is demanding to be in government. Then you can't just provide parts of a government budget. You have to put forward an entire state budget, which is linked. And as the representative is familiar with, the government has seen it as a very important task to propose a government budget that is tight enough for us not to put any further pressure on interest rates and prices. In this context, we have chosen to prioritise the general framework conditions for business and to reduce the cost-benefit support. That is why we have proposed to wind up the reimbursement system for seafarers from 1 January 2003. This equates employment in this industry with employment in other Norwegian industries. So the question is what does it do with competence, if any. I have great faith that the shipping industry has a competence that will enable it to assert itself in competition. I myself have daily responsibility for the field of education and know, among other things. e.g. The lack of real-life investment also weakens the recruitment and competence of these industries, and here we have just presented a strategy plan to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1157	This question, from the representative May Hansen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1160	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Children and Family has arranged for MST teams around the counties. MST aims to help parents and teachers to deal with and solve behavioural problems in young people at home and in the local environment. Part of the funding was psychiatry, which has now been drawn out. For Eastfold's part, this means a decline of 3.4 million. in 2003. This means that it is not possible to continue and further develop this important work. What will the Council of State do to bring about a continuation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1169	So I answer the question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Since 1999, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Health, the former Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, have cooperated in implementing the multisystemic therapy method, MST, which is aimed at young people with serious behavioural problems and their families. Often it is about young people who would otherwise be placed in institutions. The method involves an intensive four–six-month treatment schedule, carried out at home and in the community, with daily contact between the therapist and the family. The MST method has been developed at the Medical University of South Carolina, and evaluation from the United States has shown good results. This is now confirmed by the Norwegian evaluation carried out at the Centre for the Study of Problem Behaviour and Innovative Practices at the Psychological Institute in Oslo. The Centre is also responsible for the training of therapists in the counties. 25 MST teams are established in 17 counties and more than 600 families have undergone MST treatment. The training of therapists is funded from the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family, while the operation of the MST teams is funded by the county municipalities. The teams are organisationally linked to county child protection. There are many areas of cooperation between child protection and child and youth psychiatry, and there should be. For children and young people with complex problems, it is essential that the two services cooperate and are coordinated in the provision of services. Outpatient clinics in the field of mental health protection for children and young people need to strengthen cooperation with, inter alia: the protection of children and part of the growth of capacity must be achieved through the provision of consultation and guidance to cooperative services. In the Roadmap for Mental Health and in circulars to municipalities and hospitals, the need to strengthen cooperation between child protection and child and youth psychiatry has been addressed. In the past, Eastfold County Council has raised the question with the Ministry of Health about the economic cooperation between the protection of children and the psychiatry of children and young people. The Ministry of Health has in a letter to Eastfold County and Health East provided that the necessary measures are followed up from both parties to the clients concerned. Health East has explained to the Ministry that cooperation between child and youth psychiatry and child protection should not be stepped up, but that cooperation should be at the professional level and not through the transfer of financial resources. I assume that the necessary cooperation between child and youth psychiatry and child protection, such as: are described in key health policy documents, followed up in a good manner and with regard to the young people concerned as the central theme. The political signals are clear. It shall cooperate and cooperate more closely. However, there is no requirement for enterprises to transfer funds from the psychiatry plan to child protection measures. In Eastfold, there is currently one MST team. The MST offer in Eastfold should be maintained, as in the other counties. Health East and Eastfold County should find a solution to this problem. Both departments will monitor developments and assess measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1182	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There are some problems with the economy in both municipalities and counties. Serious behavioural problems are difficult to deal with. Increasing efforts in prevention for children and young people and their families is necessary and very resource-efficient. St.meld. No 40 for 2001–2002, to be treated just over Christmas, emphasises the need for resources to be allocated to the family. It is the government's clear signal that institutions should be used to a limited extent. MST, as the Council of State says, is a method that has good experience. In St.meld. No The Ministry of Children and Family said that the MST should be developed so well that everyone with behavioural problems should be offered this form of treatment. Where in the world are these means to come from? There are no leads inside St.meld. No 40, and the psychiatric drugs are withdrawn from this team in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1191	There is no doubt that this offer is a wanted and wanted offer. This is why there has been a clear commitment by the Ministry of Children and Family to building this, where training is funded by the State, while the operation of the teams is funded by the county municipalities. This is part of the county's responsibility for child protection. In Eastfold, the county has used ear-marked psychiatry for child protection. They have transferred money from the mental health escalation plan to the county child protection. That possibility also exists for the regional health undertaking, but they have no instructions or instructions to do so. On the other hand, they have a clear expectation that, together with the county municipality, they will seek a solution so that this team can be maintained. Both departments concerned will follow up on the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1198	I thank you again for the answer. I'll turn the last question a little bit. Cross-disciplinary cooperation is given great importance in St.meld. No 40, 40, 40, 40, Municipalities and counties are required across institutions to cooperate in order to create a better network of children and young people — strong leadership from the centre. The frightening development of gang violence and girl violence requires action. We have a good example from Moss in our fresh memory last week. When will the departments cooperate fully on actions for children and young people and see the consequences of their own policies? New measures are always imposed, from one department and from the other department, while the same obligations are not imposed on, for example: health enterprises, as the Council of State says. You don't put pressure on them to take care of this bit in terms of MST. Who really is responsible for ensuring that children’s right to justice is respected? Is it the Ministry of Children and Family, or is it the Ministry of Health? When are you going to start working together at ministerial level?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1207	Long-term cooperation at ministerial level has begun, and it is quite intensive in relation to the target groups that need complex services, where responsibility lies in different sectors of society or departments and departments. It is not difficult to identify the situation in which cooperation can be improved. But it is completely wrong of the representative Hansen, at least on the basis of the answer I have given here today, to say that there is no pressure on the health company to come up with a solution. The answer I have given here today is an expression of such a pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1217	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Training Act does not require the States to recognise apprenticeships for young people under the age of 21 without training rights. For young people who have taken out their right to secondary education, it has not been possible to sign a contract until they have completed 21. The counties have different practices in reimbursing grants to the apprenticeships of these apprentices. Will the Council consider lifting the age limit of 21 for the right to sign voluntary learning contracts and ensuring that all approved contracts result in entitlement to grants?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1226	The main model of vocational training involves two years of training in school followed by two years of company training. The applicable legislation allows for derogations from the main model on an individual basis in certain cases: The person who has reached the age of 21 may sign an apprenticeship contract with the entire training of the company.He who has physical and/or mental disabilities may sign an apprenticeship contract with deviations from the normal contractual conditions.He who, according to expert judgement, is very little motivated by school and will therefore have special problems in following the training scheme for the subject may sign a learning contract with the entire training of the company. Under the rules in force, the county shall pay grants to educational establishments in accordance with the rules laid down by the Ministry. The payment obligation applies to recognised learning contracts. In my view, more should be provided for than under existing rules in order to take more decisions on the organisation and implementation of training at local level. In this context, I recently sent a proposal for changes to the Training Act to be consulted. The proposal allows local decision to be made whether to follow the main model or to draw up a learning contract with the entire training course in the enterprise. The proposal includes, inter alia: that the age limit of 21 years in order to be able to sign apprenticeships with the entire training of the enterprise will fall. So the answer to the question of whether we want to raise the age limit is yes. This happens, among other things: on the initiative of SV, who promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on this for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1245	Does the representative of Rikvam want an additional question?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1248	No, I don't need that. I just want to thank you for the answer. This promises very well. It's very good for young people who now have an opportunity that they haven't had before. So I say thank you once again to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1255	I am pleased with the representative, Mr Rikvam, because on this issue we are fully in agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1260	All hearts rejoice!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1267	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «The reform of competence determines the need to establish mechanisms to stimulate all educational institutions providing user-oriented, competent and continuing training services. Minerva high school has experienced that this is not the case with the laws of today. What will the Council of State do to establish a regulatory framework adapted to the intentions of the reform of competences also for private institutions which are training under the reform of competences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1276	The reform of competence includes, inter alia: the objective of making the education system more flexible and adapted to individual needs and of opening up alternative learning venues. A number of reform actions are targeted at this. Among other things, adults have been granted a right to secondary education, adapted to their wishes and circumstances. The reform is still under development, including: the Adult Education Act will be reviewed with a view to the most appropriate organisation of the grant schemes. There are many market players who offer competent continuing training services, and that is good. The specific case of Minerva is under consideration. It is therefore premature to conclude whether this case is appropriate as a starting point for a revision of current legislation for private educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1285	Public and private schools must have equivalent conditions and conditions. The system must help each adult to become better equipped for work and social life. I refer you to a letter from Minerva, by a lawyer, from which the Council of State has received a copy. It is clear from this letter that the ministry has repeatedly neglected private schools by shutting them down. Letters of letters have not been answered. It is no wonder that private schools fail when there is no legislation to adhere to, and there is no necessary guidance from the Department, which is provided for in Section 11 on the obligation to provide guidance. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Minerva's secondary school is not closed, in the situation they are in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1292	To the very general point of equivalence between public and private educational institutions: there is a great deal of positive in it. Among other things, in higher education, the Government and the Stortinget of the previous session have merged to contribute to a greater level of equality. At lower levels, the Government intends to promote a proposal for a law on independent schools. This law will initially apply to a revision of the current private school law — as far as primary school is concerned — and we will later see what to do in terms of secondary and adult education. But one of the things we'll come back to is, as I mentioned, a revision of the Adult Education Act. With regard to the Minerva case, I do not think it appropriate to comment on it. The ministry has asked some questions to the school. We have received answers from the school, and these are now being treated in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1299	I want to point out the serious situation that Minerva is in. There are hundreds of students in line to get into school. The school is doing a socially useful job according to the decision taken by the Storting on this reform, so that a solution has to be found, and it has to come soon in order for the school not to be shut down. Will the State Council consider appointing others, outside the Ministry, who may determine grants for the school according to the work done by the school in relation to the reform of their competences?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1306	I have to stick to my previous answer. In my opinion, the Ministry is working both quickly and fairly on the so-called Minerva case. But since the matter is now under consideration, I do not think it appropriate to comment further on it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1313	Question 12 will be addressed at the end of the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1320	‘Troubles and abuse in the home are taboo, and the numbers of darkness may be large. It is assumed that the need for tailor-made assistance is present in several major municipalities. In Oslo and Drammen, many older people have been helped by the ‘Vern for the Elderly’ projects. Projects have shown that older people are given a place to go where help is available and coordinated. What will the Council of State do to ensure that older people who are at risk or have been subjected to abuse receive good help and follow-up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1327	Older people are a vulnerable and vulnerable group in terms of violence and abuse, and many have limited physical function. This makes them more vulnerable to both physical and mental abuse than younger ones. In 1991, the Ministry took the initiative to launch a pilot project aimed at developing models of action, combating violence against the elderly in the family, and catching up problems at an early stage in order to prevent suffering. The protection of the elderly is the result of this. Knowledge is needed to achieve the most targeted work against violence and abuse. These include: one of the reasons for the establishment in 1996 of a dedicated centre of competence for victim work. The protection of the elderly was part of the work of the Centre of Competence. Violence against the elderly must be seen as part of the general problem of victims of violence in society. The Ministry of Justice has been given responsibility, inter alia: for the action plan ‘Violence against women’, to be implemented between 2002 and 2003. The action plan includes 20 different actions, which will also benefit older people. One of the actions is projects aimed at developing models of how municipalities can more effectively strengthen their response to violence and abuse. Different models shall be developed or tested for the prevention of violence, cooperation between relevant bodies and assistance to victims and offenders. As of 1 July this year, a family violence coordinator scheme was established in all the police districts of the country and instructions were given to the police on how to deal with family violence. I would also like to mention that in the wake of the Vern for Older people project, there has been a testing scheme with the establishment of an advisory office for crime victims in seven cities: Drammen, Fredrikstad, Haugesund, Tromsø, Kristiansand, Trondheim and Hamar. The offices are established in cooperation with the police in the city concerned, assisting victims of criminal acts with advice and guidance and passing on the need for legal and health assistance. In addition, four new advisory offices shall be established. The Centre for the Competence of Victim Work is responsible for coordinating and developing the work of the Advisory Offices. With the measures now under way by the Government’s Action Plan ‘Violence against Women’, older victims of violence will also be able to receive the assistance they need. In order to ensure assistance and follow-up in the event of an assault on the elderly, we depend on the presence of the local apparatus and on its ability to follow up the victims of violence. It is important that the general auxiliaries are able to capture abuse when they occur and to provide appropriate assistance. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the supply in general, so that there can be lasting measures not linked to individual projects of limited duration. A part of this is a further training offer for staff in the care/social services of the municipalities of the University of Oslo, the competence centre and the county council in Buskerud cooperate on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1344	The measure ‘Vern für Alter’ has done a fantastic job in Oslo, but at the same time they have revealed a lack of expertise in the social auxiliaries in dealing with this. The Competence Centre for Violence does a good job, including: through its Regional Conferences. Feedback that I get is based on the fact that there are few or almost no participants from the municipal service provider. The reasons for this are probably many, but these are the occupational groups closest to discovering such situations. When knowledge and competence to detect violence and methods to deal with this is lacking, the elderly remains a hidden and taboo phenomenon. Will the Minister of Social Affairs contribute to the schooling of municipal services and the capacity to help the many elderly who are now suffering in hiding because of persistent violence against them?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1351	The most important thing is that both the need and the measures are developed locally, that they take place in each municipality and in cooperation with the police. I note the views of the representative Hildeng that there are a few participants from the municipal service provider. Some of the follow-up will then be to take this up in meeting with the municipalities and to put it on the agenda. What we can follow up with from the state is exactly what goes on in competence and making skills available from the experience we have so far. It is about the centre of expertise established in 1996, to which Hildeng's representative himself refers, a lot of experience from the establishment of the Advisory Office for Victims of Violence in Municipalities, which continues the experience we have in the project 'Vern for the Elderly', and not least the experience that is also in the testing scheme with the Advisory Offices for Victims of Victims of Violence, and what is in the Ministry of Justice's follow-up to the action plan 'Violence against Women'. I fully agree with the representative that this knowledge is present. We get more of it all the time, but it's important that we make sure that the municipalities and the employees who meet the elderly become part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1360	It's good to hear that the Social Minister is as positive as she is. Now, it is often the case that when a public utility problem is not fully addressed by a public utility, voluntary aid organisations contribute to the launching of important aid projects, often in cooperation with municipalities and countries. Examples include: in the case of eating disorders, crisis centres, etc. I am aware that there are non-governmental organisations that have engaged in the issue of aging, and some also have good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and Oslo municipal measures on the protection of the elderly. The need for this type of measure is also required in other major cities. Will the Council of State help to facilitate such activities in other major cities in Norway, preferably in cooperation with non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1369	I would like to repeat that the measures must be anchored locally in each municipality and also with the police. At the same time, I fully recognise that it is important that we also use the knowledge and competences that voluntary Norway can provide. In this respect, it is important to encourage municipalities to involve more fully both the knowledge and experience of voluntary organisations, and also to look at the possibility for them to participate in this work. I myself am aware that several of the volunteer organisations, such as Through the Visiting Service, there is some knowledge about observing issues where there is concern that the elderly are actually subjected to violence and that they also have the competence to prevent violence. It is important that public Norway includes voluntary organisations where appropriate. I think, like the representative Hildeng, that they actually have a lot to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1379	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘Else Pub in Oslo could open again only a few days after the Food Authority closed the pub because they found vodka with technical spirits. They could not sell alcohol, but wine and beer can still be sold. Does the Council of State consider this to be sufficient sanctions in such a serious case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1388	It is shocking that a tipping point should have served its guests technical spirits. As guests, we all need to feel safe about what we eat and drink outside. We must have confidence that what we are served is lawful, and there must be clear consequences when gift points break this trust. In this context, I would like to praise the Municipality of Oslo for the actions that have been carried out. Active control activities are a prerequisite for detecting and responding to such conditions. In that case the representative Eye refers to, it was the Food Authority in the Municipality of Oslo that exposed technical spirits in bottles at the bar at Elvis Pub. The bar was, after I was informed, closed by law in Section 6 of the Food Act, referring to health risks. All the liquor was confiscated, and the place was then opened again. The provision of technical spirits is a serious breach of the alcohol law, which provides a basis for the withdrawal of a local smoking permit. A place of this kind is linked to both a serving allowance under the Food and Drug Administration Act and a gift grant under the Alcohol Act. A service permit is a prerequisite for giving a gift under a gift permit. Both types of funding are granted by the municipality. It is also the municipality that supervises and imposes penalties on the basis of this. In this case, the municipality of Oslo has chosen to suspend the service authorisation. The site must then be closed and therefore nothing can be served until a final decision has been taken by the municipality. I am familiar with the fact that the Municipality of Oslo aims at withdrawing the serving permit. That means that the place will have to close for good. In my opinion, that is a correct reaction in relation to the overtramp of this variety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1403	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State says, something has happened since I raised this question, and that is very good. However, I will not let go of the roof of this matter. This case is serious, and it is probably not a single case either in Oslo or in the other major cities. People have to feel that they have a reasonable assurance that they are not poisoned either by food or drink when they go out to a restaurant or a pub. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she believes that the legislation is good enough, when it is now that Norway has become a haven for smuggling meat and smuggling liquor, not only for private consumption, but also in business, as in the restaurant industry. It must be such that it must be possible to run seriously here in the country. That is why I believe that we must have a food allowance as part of a more central sanctioning regulation in which infringements of the alcohol and food law become a guide for the municipalities, i.e. that we must have an overall regulatory framework. And I ask, does the Minister for Social Affairs agree that there can be a way to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1412	The municipality has all the possibilities to respond. It's just about using the tools you have, the law. The municipality of Oslo has used it in this case. We have an overall law, and that needs to be sufficient to impose sanctions on companies that do not follow the rules. There are strict quality requirements in the food law and there are strict standard requirements in the alcohol law in order to obtain and retain the right to provide alcohol. In the event of a breach of the Alcohol Code and of provisions relating to donation, the municipality may withdraw the grant. The police have the right to close a parking lot until two days. The Food and Drug Administration Act allows the police to close down the catering business for up to four days. The municipality can also suspend and suspend the serving permit in the event of a crime, as the municipality of Oslo has done in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1419	I thank you again for the answer, but I am not satisfied that the social minister now says that the law we have is good enough. It is a problem that when a pub or restaurant is closed – which happens – it can open again a few days later, with a new owner and with new blank sheets. I would therefore like to ask: will the Minister of Social Affairs go in order to introduce the requirement that a tax certificate be submitted before authorization is granted? In order to ensure that employment contracts and occupational indemnity insurance are in order, is the grant of the grant of the grant necessary? If that's not all right, shouldn't you grant the gift grant? And businesses must not be allowed to start up until they have registered in the charging mandate? There's a lot of areas we have to go into here. Now we've heard for so many years that we're trying to do something about it. But we won't be able to deal with the problems, and then we'll get such big headlines as we've seen in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1428	I note the views of the representative Eye. On the basis of Elvis Pub, which was the starting point for the question, the municipality has the means to do so by following the law. Oslo Municipality has done so with regard to the food law and the alcohol law. I take with me the views that the representative has in relation to any new owners and exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1438	‘I refer to the report on the results of the conversion of transitional aid. It shows that the conversion has not led to a better financial situation and self-sufficiency for the recipients, but that less than half of them are in full employment when the social security period expires. The conversion has created a poverty problem. The report shows the need for the Government to take action and amend the legislation. What concrete action will the Council of State take to counter the negative consequences of the conversion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1445	The purpose of the social security scheme for lone dependants is to ensure income during a transitional period and to facilitate a greater level of self-sufficiency. The period of benefit was shortened in 1998 from 10 to 3 years, with the possibility of five years of social assistance in the event of the necessary training. At the same time, the transitional benefit was increased in cash and the benefit scheme for child care was significantly improved. This should better facilitate work or training and help single-parents from the long-term receipt of passive social benefits to active action and work. The report by the representative Lena Jensen refers to, builds on feedback from well over 400 people and, together with the experiences of the social security system, will make an important contribution to further developing the policy of single dependants. The report confirms that the reform has consistently worked well to get single-parents into work and education in the past. In this way, the report is much more nuanced than what you get by reading the paper. Half of those who no longer have transitional benefits in 2001 work full time, while 40 pst. working part-time. I therefore do not agree that the reform of single carers has failed. Social security rates were raised through the reform, more people have come to work more quickly, and there is no basis for the claim that the reform has created a poverty problem. The researchers stress in the summary of their report that there is a dominant positive attitude to the reform of the people asked, but in particular the time limit is perceived as negative. At the same time, many believe that the social welfare system is too flexible and has too tight deadlines before the social welfare period expires. The government has already proposed in the 2003 government budget that single dependants should retain transitional support for the school year, regardless of whether the social benefit period expires in the school year. The Ministry of Social Affairs is also considering any other measures that may facilitate the transition to self-sufficiency for single dependants. I would also like to mention that in the action plan against poverty, it is proposed to earmark 1 000 places for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance in labour market measures, where single dependants who are struggling to fit into the labour market will be an important target group. I am concerned about finding solutions for those who are struggling to get sufficient work or have problems completing their education. The solution does not exist only in the social welfare system of the people. Some are struggling with housing problems, illness, debt problems and other conditions. The criticism of the report on non-cooperation between agencies can be justified by far-reaching reasons. The Ministry is now in the final phase of an investigation into the change in the organisation of Aetat, social security and social security policies, and aims to provide a report on this in a short time. Better coordination between the services and services of these agencies will be an important contribution for those who feel that they are being thrown into the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1458	I would like to thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the intention of the reform, but would quote from the final report that came a few days ago: ‘This means that some have been reduced in income as a result of the reform and that there is a significant group that does not have the level of self-sufficiency through paid work that was the objective of the reform.’ One of the conclusions reached in this report is killing. I quote: ‘The reform can thus not be said to have succeeded in improving the economic situation of lone dependants as a group.’ I would like to ask the Council of State the following additional questions: Now that this report is available, and a final evaluation of the conversion of the transitional aid has been carried out, will the Council of State come back to the Grand Duchy with a plan of action to provide both liberality and to look at the various groups within those receiving transitional aid, so that both financial security and a more liberal system are provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1475	I also allow myself to refer from the report. It says: ‘There is a dominant positive attitude towards the reform among those who have responded, while many perceive the time limit as negative.’ We've already done something about that. There are 400 people who have been interviewed in the evaluation report, which is only one contribution to the assessment of the reform. We are also going to pay particular attention to the experience of the Rikstrøgdeverket, as well as to the material we get from the Statistical Central Bureau. We have already proposed a number of measures because not everything is being resolved over popular concerns, and that is among other things. to look at measures to facilitate the transition to work and/or training. In the 2003 budget, we have proposed to keep the transitional benefit out of the school year. We are earmarking measures in relation to labour market measures, and we are also improving housing support schemes to improve them regardless of who finances the housing. These are just measures that are in addition to what is in popular fear and that have also been referred to as a single-parent relationship, among other things. labors with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1489	I'm not going to swirl a lot about the report, but one of the things that this report points out is that there are quite a few students in relation to the number of answers, and then they conclude that there will probably be even more people who have it tougher than those who have answered. Once again, I would like to ask the supplementary question, on which I believe the Council of State has not answered well enough: will the Council of State, in the context of the review of the reform, both see that studies are not completed, that people are forced into poverty, and that very many have suffered a much worse economic situation as a result of the conversion of the transitional aid, come back to the Grand Duchy with an action plan, so that concrete action can be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1496	I refer to my previous answer, which mentions a number of measures that will help improve the situation of single dependants. If the representative asks me if I want to come back and increase the benefit period in general, the answer is no. The offer today is three years plus two years, five years total. Our starting point has always been that we should work in the long term and provide measures that are activating, not passivating, and that we should provide help so that it does not become a difficult way back to neither education nor work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1513	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1520	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Variable vehicles with green signs are required by the authorities to have fixed, solid lattice behind the front seat. Should the cars run into water/river or the like, it is impossible to travel straight through the car's rear/door due to the grid that goes from floor to roof. The Council of State will take the initiative to improve the safety of these drivers, e.g.: with lower/simplifying walls or other measures?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1529	The requirement for fixed protection wall in the van at 0 p.m. 2 is governed by the one-off motor vehicle charge regulation of 19 March 2001 No. Paragraphs 268(2) to (3). This Regulation is laid down by the Ministry of Finance. The requirement applies to fixed protection wall from floor to roof and wall to wall between driver/passenger compartment and cargo space and must be met in order to obtain a special tax status, in this case be included under van class 2. Of course, a fixed protection wall also has a road safety side by helping to protect both the driver and the passenger. If the protective wall were not there, it could easily result in damage to the person or persons seated at the front of the vehicle by the goods located at the rear in the event of a disembarkation, collision or heavy braking. As I have been informed by the Directorate of Roads, this protection wall has not led to such problems as the representative Nistad addresses. Looking at road safety as a whole, removing the protective wall is likely to have a negative impact on overall road safety. On this basis, I find no reason to take the initiative to change the requirement in the current regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1542	I have to say a little surprised that the Council of State is just thinking that the goods in the back of the car can come out. And you can do this in a lot of ways. You can, for example: have a hatch where you can walk out, or you can have a lower wall. After all, there are a lot of so-called small cars or passenger cars that also have this fixed wall, and they are not exactly as full of goods. So I think the government council was a little negative. Nor has it been registered that there have been any accidents, and it is then only to complain that it is difficult to take such a registration afterwards when there has actually been such an accident. Is it so that the Council of State is more concerned with taxes than trying to save lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1551	I am concerned that the fees can actually be used to save lives. We have several examples that we use both economic incentives and user payments to improve the road safety picture. But in relation to this specific question, I'm not just thinking about the goods. On the contrary, I see that it is an advantage that there is such a grid that can simply take off for the damage that would have occurred if this grid had not been there. I would also like to stress that this is not a requirement for all cars. There is also no requirement for station wagons. It is a requirement linked to cars in so-called class 2 vans.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1563	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘More municipalities feel pressured by the county to impose property taxes on private residential buildings. The reason is that the county demands that all income opportunities be used before considering the allocation of discretionary funds to municipalities with the pressed economy. Property tax is a voluntary municipal tax. So in practice, it's not as voluntary. Will the Government ensure that the county councillors can no longer demand the introduction of property taxes prior to the allocation of discretionary funds?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1572	As Andersen's representative mentions, property tax is a voluntary municipal tax. It is up to the local authority to decide whether to issue property taxes in the municipality, provided that the conditions so permit. Like Andersen, I am concerned that there should be a real freedom of choice for municipalities to print property taxes. A request has been made in the Ministry’s guidelines on the discretionary allocation with effect from 2003 that county councillors should not be able to make direct claims to municipalities on the introduction of property taxes as a prerequisite for obtaining discretionary means. The guidelines provide for the following: ‘The triggering of grants must be linked to a binding and time-limited action plan on how to resolve the problems encountered by the municipality. [[(see section 4.4). financial plan)]] Such a plan must contain clear contributions from the municipality itself that are proportionate to the state’s providing assistance in the light of self-inflicted problems. These may be contributions both in the form of increased income and reduced expenditure. However, the county does not impose direct taxation as a precondition for obtaining a discretionary grant.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1584	I thank you for the answer, which I must say I was very pleased with. Then I understand that it is now over with the practice that several municipalities have actually had to deal with for quite a long time. There are many examples of the fact that property taxes have been introduced precisely as a consequence of the pressure exerted on these municipalities to raise and allocate funds from the State. A change in this area, I believe at least, will be of great importance as many local politicians feel very uncomfortable about being pressured to impose property taxes as it has been in the past. We all know that this is a very unpopular type of tax among the vast majority of residents of a municipality. Then some of this has already been clarified, so that we look forward to this practice ending in 2003, if I understood correctly the Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1591	In practice, there has been a relatively wide disparity between the different statesmen as to how they have interpreted previous guidelines and previous discussions in the United Kingdom. In a discussion on discretionary grants, the county can still address the question of the income base of the local economy. A comprehensive plan is needed to balance both on the income side and on the expenditure side. Not least, what we discussed last year, namely the question of inter-municipal cooperation, possible community mergers, is a topic to be addressed. But we have made it clear that the county cannot impose direct taxes on property.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1596	Would you like further comment from the query?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1599	No, I feel reasonably confident that the Council of State will act in line with what she has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1607	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: «The Official Journal of the European Communities writes on 9 November about a 92-year-old lessee who is put on the street by the lessor. The draft also applies to two other older women, one of whom has lived in his apartment for 30 years. Being thrown out of his dwelling is naturally perceived as a very heavy burden for people of such old age, and it is difficult for them to find other solutions. Will the Council of State take the initiative to improve the protection against dismissal in the household rental law of older tenants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1616	I would first like to be informed that I have no further knowledge of the issue of the draft, to which it refers, in addition to what is in the Official Journal of Bergen. That is why I do not want to comment on this. However, I can state that the Ministry does not intend to amend the provisions relating to the termination of leases in general, nor for older tenants. Whereas, in drawing up the provisions on dismissal, different interests must be weighed against each other; On the one hand, the lessor must be able to cancel the rental contract when there is a valid reason. If this becomes too difficult, the effect could be that many homeowners no longer want to rent out. As a result, the overall supply of dwellings will be reduced. That would be a little desirable. On the other hand, the provisions must be designed in such a way as to protect tenants from dismissals which are not factually justified. Such provisions must also sufficiently safeguard the interests of weak groups. This was attempted when the law was completely revised in 1999. Under current provisions, there is a difference between fixed-term and non-scheduled rentals. A fixed-term contract ends after the date agreed in advance, while an indefinite contract ends after termination. If a lessor cancels an indefinite rental period, there must be cause for action. If the lessee objects to the termination, the lessor must bring an action against the lessee in order to have the cancellation tried. The court will first examine whether the termination is lawful. However, even if the termination is lawful, the court may set the termination aside if it considers that it would be unreasonable on the basis of an assessment of the circumstances of both parties. However, this cannot be done if the right comes to the conclusion that the termination is due to material default. This protection against dismissal ensures that the lessor cannot cancel the rental contract without delay and have the lessee thrown out. The court will guarantee the lessee the right to further rental if the termination is unreasonable. Further rentals will also be ensured if the lessor does not bring an action for the cancellation to be tried. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has produced a circular on housing-social work, including assistance to master housing conditions. In the circular, we refer to different measures and instruments that can be taken by municipalities and other bodies and that can help reduce the number of discards. Many drafts could have been avoided if all the bodies concerned, including: the social offices, had come in at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1632	I notice that the Council of State gives an introduction to the Housing Rental Act in general, and although it is important enough, it is probably not as relevant to the matter in question. The Council of State says that she will not comment on this matter in particular, but it must be possible to ask for a more general assessment of this type of case and to know whether the Council of State believes it is a problem that older tenants are as vulnerable as they are on the rental market today, taking into account that on this market they make a particular resource deficit, both in terms of their small opportunities to enter the market as owners, and the great physical and psychological pressures associated with moving at such an age. I think it is appropriate to hear the Council of State's assessment here of whether there is a lack of political opportunity to make changes, or whether it is such that she actually believes that this is not necessary to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1639	I believe that today's house rental law provides tenants with good legal protection, not least because it is the landlord who has to take legal initiative for any eviction and to justify the fact that a cancellation is factual. I think we should be very careful about making difficulties in terms of rental situations if we want to have a functioning rental market in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we do not create new difficulties with the rental system that make renting more difficult and less interesting. So it's like an indefinite lease, which I assume must apply, even if I don't have the basis to say it for sure, is very clearly regulated in relation to when the cancellations can happen. An interpretation of the legislation we have will lie with the courts. The Courts may take further account, inter alia, of: to age issues, but there is a process that the courts themselves need to take. I believe that the law we have is sufficient to provide the framework for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1648	I thank you for your answer. It's clear: the council doesn't want to do anything to help people who are in the situation that this is about. Governments mention that different interests need to be balanced against each other. I would like to ask if I understand the Council of State correctly if I believe that it is such that the interests of the lessor here must outweigh the interests of the older tenants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1653	I think it was an incalculable assessment. I believe that the legal relationship for tenants in terms of time indefinite agreements is good in Norway. It offers good guarantees for rental conditions, but at the same time we have to make sure that we don't have incentives that work against getting apartments out on the rental market. A stronger protection than what we have in the law today could result in fewer people interested in renting apartments. It would mean a smaller rental market, and I have at least seen other representatives from SV so it is important that we get a larger rental market in Norway. Then we also have to have a situation where you, for example. in the case of sale or conversion or in the event of a clear default of a lease – and the three conditions are specifically mentioned in relation to the law – have the possibility of cancellation of leases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1660	Question 20 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1673	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1679	This question, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1682	I will be asked the following questions: ‘The Ministry of the Environment is now concluding a new agreement with the packaging chain on the collection and recycling of plastic packaging. In order to reduce the amount of waste exported for recovery, more in the industry would like the agreement to include a target of at least 50 pst. the plastic waste shall be recycled in Norway. As I know, the Ministry of the Environment does not want this. If this results in correctness, can the Council of State explain why the Department does not wish to pursue such an ambitious objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1691	It is right that we aim to conclude a revised agreement with the plastic packaging chain on the collection and recovery of waste from plastic packaging. Today's agreement, which was concluded in 1995, requires a minimum of 30 pst. of the plastic packaging waste shall be recovered. The government of Stoltenberg presented in St. ermeld. No 24 for 2000-2001 on the government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the State that they would reduce this target. The government of which the representative Brustad himself was a member thus added to a reduced level of ambition that would not only give a lower use of the waste but also undoubtedly weakened the framework conditions for Norwegian plastic recycling companies. It does not want to be co-operative, and therefore it is envisaged that today’s ambitious targets for the recovery of packaging waste should be continued. Never before has so much plastic waste been collected and recovered as now. Total recovers 70 pst. of the plastic waste, 20 pst. recycled material, the remaining energy is used. Through the revised agreement with the plastic industry, the government will ensure that this positive development continues. The representative, Brustad, asks for an explanation as to why the plastic agreement does not contain a measure or require that 50 pst. the recycling of the plastic waste as recycled in Norway. ==References== 60 pst. the recycling of plastic material is currently carried out by Norwegian recycling companies, without this being defined as a requirement in the agreement between the industry and the Ministry of the Environment. Packaging agreements between industries and administrations focus on finding socio-economic appropriate solutions. A requirement for a specific amount of waste to be recovered in Norway could result in additional costs for industries and consumers – without justification for environmental reasons. In the Ministry of the Environment's dialogue with the plastics industry about a revised agreement, we see that the vast majority of the industry will not therefore want such requirements or restrictions to be part of the text of the agreement. Sorted plastic waste for recycling is classified as ‘green waste’, which according to the EEA Agreement should be allowed to cross-border trade. There is very much doubt about a measure of at least 50 pst. recovery in Norway will be accepted in relation to EEA legislation. It has to be mentioned that Norwegian recycling companies also benefit from this legislation by ensuring access to the waste market in other countries. Recycling in Norway is desirable for several reasons, not least for workplaces and the development of Norwegian environmental technologies. Furthermore, it may be easier to maintain population involvement in source sorting when the collected material is treated in Norway. Thus, the packaging industry itself has advantages in having competitive plastic recycling companies in Norway. However, the framework conditions for the recovery of waste shall primarily contribute to effective solutions. This is good for both the environment, consumers and the industry. Therefore, the Government does not propose through the agreement to require the recovery of a certain proportion of the plastic waste in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1708	I think, of course, that it is good for Norway to recover as much as it does, for all sorts of reasons. I would probably wish it had also been desirable for the government to add to a slightly more ambitious objective of the agreement that is now to be concluded, even if in practice there is something more than 50 pst. I understand it so that the government believes that 30 pst. is ambitious enough, and from that point of view I would like to ask the Council of State: what other measures can the Council of State and the Government plan to put in place to ensure that so much remains to be recovered in Norway — and hopefully also more — that the waste is not exported out of the country, for example. to China?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1715	First, I want to stress, as I also said in my answer, that the government has an ambitious goal. We have a more ambitious goal than the previous government had in this area. We believe that we are actually able to achieve goals without defining them in agreements that can be asked questions, among other things. related to our international agreements. Going into other types of instruments when it actually works well is a question that I don't want to answer right now. We have more instruments. This agreement is a good tool to achieve this. The instruments we have, which are linked to the overall environmental policy, also work well in ensuring that we get a good waste management of plastic packaging.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1722	I understand that the Government intends not to do anything more than what is in force in relation to the existing agreements. I think that's a little regrettable. We can have a long discussion about the snow that fell last year. We can have that on a lot of things. However, there should be no doubt that the Workers' Party has a strong wish and believes that as much of the plastic waste as possible will be recovered in Norway. In fact, transporting waste out of the country to very many other countries that have their negative environmental aspects, not least in relation to transport, is a very bad environmental policy. I will continue to appeal to the Government to think carefully through this before the agreement is signed. I believe that it would have made sense to set a somewhat higher target than the government is clearly on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1729	So the government has an ambitious goal. We fully agree that it would have been a great advantage if we had released much of the transport related to material recycling. However, transport issues should be first and foremost assessed in relation to transport distances, not just within a national context. In fact, some areas in this country will benefit from not only transport to several key points in Norway but also across borders. The important thing is to see when environmental problems are cross-border. When we have an EEA agreement where this is classified as ‘green waste’, we get the best possible environmental use by not adding up to national leads or to too strong requirements where questions can be asked about getting the most cost-effective and the best environmental solutions. I would therefore say that there is no contradiction between what the representative says about being ambitious, and what I'm actually saying, we have to look at the environmental effects, not just what happens to Norwegian and national recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1741	This question, from the representative of Mette Gundersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1744	I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘The Johannesburg Summit concluded that much of the environmental work for sustainable development should be done in the municipalities. Local Agenda 21 was highlighted. It is in the interaction between municipalities, non-governmental organisations, businesses and the population that good environmental work is taking place. Will the Council of State support those municipalities that promote their own health and environmental measures for their citizens, in line with the Johannesburg idea of local participation in sustainable development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1753	Sustainable development in Norway requires local involvement and decisions. The government is committed to strengthening local environmental protection. Over the period 1998–2001, the Ministry of Environment implemented a national incentive programme for Local Agenda 21. The experience of the Stimulation Programme will be part of further efforts to strengthen local environmental protection. A key element of the Government's commitment to local environmental protection will be to facilitate and encourage municipalities to make better use of the space they already have. In addition, the Government, as announced in St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002, give municipalities increased responsibilities and instruments to carry out environmental protection tasks of a local nature. The Foundation Idébanken has a role as a support function for municipalities in the form of an inspiration and the dissemination of good examples of local solutions, including: a dedicated community programme. In order to support the local environmental protection work of municipalities, the Government will facilitate: disseminate national targets and state involvement in predictability and clarity regional and local planning processes. Municipalities should know the space for action they have, and what is expected of them to stimulate inter-municipal cooperation in order to trigger economies of scale and to extend the tasks of the county council to guide and follow-up the municipalities in order to improve the decision-making base and to streamline the decision-making process, providing the public with better information on the state of the environment through the proposal for a new law on environmental information. The law will also cover municipalities and imply new rights for the public and an obligation for public bodies to have knowledge of the state of the environment within their area of responsibility and to make it available to work for sustainable development a further boost, by providing an action plan for sustainable development – a National Agenda 21 – in the context of the 2004 national budget. Local government, business and organisations will be invited to participate in this process and local Agenda 21 experience will be highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1780	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Several municipalities express that the involvement in local environmental work is decreasing because we have not had enough transfers to do the work with the Local Agenda. Pending a national action plan for Agenda 21, some municipalities have slowed down their environmental work, while others want to appear as precursor municipalities. In Kristiansand, for example, set up a group working on concrete follow-up actions following the Johannesburg Summit. Measures such as organic milk in kindergarten, the free provision of smoke-relief to the municipality’s inhabitants and the increased use of bicycles in the urban core are proposals that this group has promoted. Based on the Council of State's response, she may seem to be in favour of this type of local initiative, and I would like to ask: How does the Council of State think that the Government can become a supporter of these municipalities that promote very special local issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1787	The government is constantly a support player for municipalities that want to exercise their local space for action. It is a well-known case that the local authority's work force is only negatively limited. This means that the tasks conferred by law on other levels of government are not to be carried out by municipalities, but otherwise they can operate with what they want, according to today's municipal legislation. This is why it is also important to see the context in which the municipalities operate, for example. a number of actions in this area will be actions that deliver environmental and health improvements as a result in other areas for which municipalities are also responsible – in relation to health, in relation to better internal work environment in municipalities and a number of areas of this type. The main measure to be taken by the Government directly towards the municipalities is to decentralise more authority and, in this context, to review the income system and the criteria that exist in relation to the municipalities, to reflect where environmental and agricultural challenges exist from 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1792	As mentioned above, the interaction between business, non-governmental organisations, municipalities and the population constitutes good environmental work. Is the Council satisfied with the work of the Government now doing to these parties, or does she see that in this field there is a need for a significant lifting to recover to that commitment and the enthusiasm shown by these parties after Local Agenda 21 became a priority case for the state and municipality at the beginning of the 1990s? I also want to add that I am pleased with what the council replied to me. I hope that municipalities such as Kristiansand is accepted with open arms when any project requests are sent to the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1799	I think it is important that local development work – and this also applies beyond the environment area – is done as much on the initiative of the municipalities themselves, because it gives a local anchoring and a desire to do something, such as being top-heavy, top-developed projects that are being tried to push down the municipal sector. When the municipalities do a good job and want to give priority to the environmental objective, of course, the state will always be committed to being a contributor to it, but it cannot always be done by exceptional means, you may have to look at the framework and legislation that the municipalities have to be able to do the tasks they have. We have therefore invited the municipal sector in general to task differentiation measures, to experimentation to prioritise in the areas that you want, and if there are some municipalities that want to prioritise the environmental area, then of course the departments will also be able to follow up there. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the 1990s, environmental enthusiasm was slightly greater than it is now, so we're going to have variations in the amount of local mobilization. But I think there will be more and more municipalities in the years to come that look, not least because they get a job in this area, that it is an important area for the municipal sector to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1806	So we go back to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1814	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Recently, several areas of protection have been established in important fishing areas without due consideration being given to fishermen and their interests, at the latest in the planning and establishment of a protection area outside the Western Baltic Sea. How do the Councils view these problems and what measures will be taken to safeguard the interests of fishermen in the planning and decision-making process in the area of protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1823	I assume that the issue concerns the planned network of marine protection areas along the coast. Indeed, work is under way to establish a so-called national marine protection plan. The plan intends to ensure a range of representative, specific, vulnerable or threatened marine subsea natural habitats and natural values for the future. In this context, an advisory panel has been set up to make a proposal for a marine protection plan, in which both industry and management are represented. For example, both the Fishlayer and FHL aquaculture are represented in the sample, as well as the Fisheries Directorate. These are precisely in the sample – as asked by the representative of Bastisen – to safeguard the interests of the industry during the planning and decision-making process of the Marine Protection Plan. There is today a ‘gross list’, which is a first proposal on which areas can or should be assessed in a future marine protection plan. Which areas will eventually be included, and how many, therefore, it is far too early to say anything about, even in terms of the area to which it was referred. However, it is unlikely that all the protection areas of this so-called gross list will be included in the final marine protection plan. The committee I mentioned instead will deliver its proposal for a Marine Protection Plan in February 2003. The authorities will then prepare a proposal for a protection plan to be further explored and sent out at a wide public consultation. Then the fishing interests and other interests are also given a new opportunity to think about it. The final protection plan is planned by the Ministry of the Environment in cooperation and in consultation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Fisheries. This can be done at the earliest in 2004. Thus, there is a relatively long process ahead of us that offers many opportunities for the fishermen's interests to intervene. I also think, like the questioner, that good and broad processes are important, so that the organisations and operators in the fishing industry are given the opportunity to participate and to make their views known before the final decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1839	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Here are more questions clearly than I have been given an answer to. He just came from a 75th birthday at Ole Nilsen. Just outside of Nordmela, there has been a long effort to reserve the area for jack fishing and for jack fishing and line fishing. But with reference to allowing the Russian trawler to fish from Jenegga and southward along the Vesterålsegga, the Ministry of Fisheries has not been able to go into it. As regards the protection area, the question is: Is this under the Saltwater Fishing Act? Or is it under the Nature Conservation Act? If the Council of State reads the law on nature protection, he finds that it applies no longer than to the spring, even though we have decided in Stortinget that the law will apply for four miles, because it is not the Stortinge that adopts laws, but the Odelstinget and Laginget. So the question is, will proper consideration be given to the fact that people beyond the Western can continue to fish in juxtaposition and line fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1846	Now, of course, I'm not going to deal with these specific proposals on a case-by-case basis, because that would be wrong in relation to the process that is going on, and wrong in relation to the fishermen and other interests that are linked to this, and that are going to give their backs on it. They're in a sample, and when the government has asked them to be in a sample, I think it's reasonable that we both in general and in government are waiting for the work that's going on there, and that we don't participate in pressing decisions in advance. As far as the law is concerned, it will be properly enforced. But I point out that when the government in its time intervened and secured coral reefs on e.g. The seal ground out in Trondheimsfjord, it was under the Nature Conservation Act. And that's another case that we have for treatment, the great coral reef outside of Røst, which is perhaps the world's largest field of type Lophelia, which it's important to protect. There is no fishing going on there, but there is fishing around. I have understood that fishermen are also interested in protecting such areas, so that they are not destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1853	I am fully aware of the limitations of the Nature Conservation Act and the extension of the Seawater Fishing Act. In this Chamber, we ourselves have led the Prime Minister to confirm – or the Minister for Foreign Affairs has confirmed to the Prime Minister – that there was work on extending the territorial waters from 4 to 12 nautical miles and that there was going to be a sailing director outside there again. So we know that's in place. But as far as the law on nature protection is concerned, it is not yet clear in the form of law what is law, and what is not law. The Seawater Fishing Act is clear and applies outside 12 nautical miles. Now the Minister of Fisheries has a written question from us about jurisdiction, so we'll get back to that. But anyway: What are the laws to be taken into account when the selection is due to be made available in February?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1860	When I referred to the law on nature protection, it was under clear reference to what has been done, and what we intend to do in relation to coral reefs, which are protected to a greater or lesser extent, and which are to be protected to a greater or lesser extent. As far as the Marine Protection Plan is concerned, I would just like to stress what I said in my first answer: there is now a preparatory work going on. At the earliest in 2004, we will be able to take action by the Ministry of the Environment, whether alone or in cooperation with other departments. Due account will be taken of the existing legal protection. And if you need further clarifications, of course the Stortinget will be contacted and consulted to the extent that there would be uncertainty associated with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1867	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-20.ana.ud372e1878	Unit is deleted.
