ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e24	The representatives of Rolf Terje Klungland, Øyvind Halleraker, Asmund Kristoffersen, Berit Brørby, Thore A. Nistad, Bjørg Tørresdal, Sigbjørn Molvik, Øyvind Korsberg and May Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken the seat. The representative of Olav Akselsen shall apply for sick leave from 3 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of Rita Tveiten shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e77	Rita Tveiten is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e85	The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e88	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I would like to make proposals to ask the Government to submit proposals for the law on amendments to the Law of 15 June 2001 No. 53 on compensation in the event of injury to patients, etc., in order to replace «tort and prune».
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e93	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e96	It is good to promote this proposal in advance of the presentation of the budget by the Minister of Finance. There is a proposal concerning the minimum standard in primary school, ensuring the framework of resources in primary school. The proposal is being promoted on behalf of myself and Lena Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e101	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e105	On behalf of the representatives of Ursula Evje, Torbjørn Andersen, Lodve Solholm and myself, I propose implementing the system change in the Norwegian school framework to ensure a good teaching quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e110	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e113	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Morten Lund and myself, I would like to propose that the mandate of the Bank of Norway in monetary policy be clarified so that the inflation target is balanced in relation to the objective of a stable exchange rate and the purpose of production and employment. And on behalf of Morten Lund and myself, I would like to make suggestions to change the rules of action for the use of oil money so that there is room for increased use of oil money where this can reduce the pressure in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e120	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e132	The Norwegian economy is in good condition. Norway is a rich country, and oil revenues give Norway opportunities for a few other countries to be neglected. Then it's important that we take advantage of these possibilities. They can't be a sleeping cushion. Oil money must be used to increase prosperity both for us today and for future generations. The challenge facing industry and competitive business illustrates the importance of progressive and cautious action in the use of oil revenues. I've been talking to a lot of people working in companies that are competitive with the rest of the world for the past few weeks. And others have asked me, do you want politicians to remain competitive? To that I have just answered one thing: yes, we need companies that create values, create jobs, and that constantly need to improve in order to compete in global competition. We don't get away from conversions. I was in Mo in Rana recently. For a few years ago, many people didn't believe in a future in Mo. When the state-subsidized industry disappeared, many wondered what they were going to live on. Today, the old industrial area is filled with over a hundred new and modern industrial and technology companies. I met a rapporteur with optimism and faith in the future – Mo in Rana had looked towards the world and towards the future. We must pursue a policy of value creation. Our well-being is based on it. The 2003 government budget proposal is a budget designed to further develop well-being, increase value creation and improve conditions for competitive business. We find room for important efforts in health, psychiatry, poverty reduction, research and education, public transport and, above all, action for families with children. The economic situation is still uncertain. The uncertainty has increased internationally as a result of the fall in share prices. The tense situation in the Middle East has also contributed to making the image more uncertain. The rise among our trading partners is expected to be somewhat weaker than previously estimated. The Norwegian economy is, of course, affected by the international turmoil, among other things. through weak market growth for Norwegian export products. At the same time, high wage growth and strong exchange rates have weakened the competitiveness of industry. Overall, this has led to the slow development of exports of traditional goods in the last few years. The number of bankruptcies increased significantly in the first half of the year, especially in the ICT industry. The housing prices show signs of flattening, and the growth in private consumption has been moderate since last year. On the other hand, strong income growth indicates that consumption will be able to rise in the future. The Ministry of Finance is now estimating the growth of GDP in mainland Norway to 1.7 pst. in year and 1.8 pst. Next year. These estimates are slightly lower than in the revised national budget submitted in May. The reason for the downward adjustment is lower investment in mainland enterprises, lower consumer growth and weaker export trends of traditional goods. On the other hand, oil investments have been slightly adjusted both this year and next year. We now see signs of some increase in registered unemployment. Unemployment is still low in this country compared with most other countries. That's still the way it should be. For the individual, and for the individual communities affected, unemployment can hurt deeply. The workplace is one of the most important social meeting places and a place for personal development. We must therefore stick to the goal of full employment. In particular, the increase in registered unemployment has taken place within service industries and in central strata in the East. In addition, we have recently seen certain signs of a more general increase in unemployment, both in several industries and in some larger parts of the country. However, the high wage growth, particularly in areas protected from competition from abroad, is evidence that the labour market is consistently tight. For municipal and public health employees, there is a salary increase of about 6 pst. this year. In industries particularly exposed to foreign competition, wage growth could be lower. This must be seen in the light of the significant deterioration in cost competitiveness. The key to balanced development in the Norwegian economy, with lower interest rates and stabilisation of the krona, is in the labour market. Wage growth this year is well above our trading partners and clearly higher than that consistent with the monetary policy inflation target. This suggests that the labour market is still tight. When Norway’s Bank increased its interest rate to 7 pst. during the summer period, the Bank paid particular attention to the results of the year's wage settlement and the risk of high wage growth in the years ahead. If we are not able to bring wage growth down again relatively quickly, monetary policy will have to remain tight and interest rates high. And then it's hard to avoid that unemployment will increase. In this situation, it is wrong medicine to propose that we give gas in budgetary policy. Budgetary policy and monetary policy should work together to contribute to a stable development of the economy. If, in today's economic situation, more oil money were to be used than that resulting from the rule of action, the result would be a tighter monetary policy. It means higher interest rates and probably a further increase in the price of the crown. This would reinforce the trend towards a two-way economy and lead to more industrial workers losing their jobs. At the same time, we would move away from the long-term guidance on the proper use of oil revenues resulting from the rule of action. Such a policy would result in an increased need for us, once in the future, to either increase taxes or cut costs. The decline in the stock market and the strengthening of the exchange rate have helped to reduce the value of the Petroleum Fund. The amount of the Fund at the end of 2002 is now estimated at NOK 666 billion. That is NOK 110 billion less than estimated in the revised national budget for the current year. The increase in the exchange rate explains more than half of this loss, while the fall in the share prices explains the remainder. The possibility of significant fluctuations in share prices, oil prices and exchange rates was one of the reasons why it was said, or rather, when the new budgetary policy guidelines were drawn up: ‘In the case of specific large changes in fund capital... from one year to the next, the change in use must be allocated over several years, based on an estimate of the real return of the Petroleum Fund some years in time.’; In 2002, we spent 5 billion so-called oil crowns more than the year before. If we were to add up for 2003 to a use of oil revenues corresponding to 4 pst. of the fund, it would have given a decrease in the use of oil revenues of about NOK 2 billion compared to the current year. For 2004, there would then be an increase of over NOK 6 billion. The first cut in the use of oil money in the 2003 budget and then ‘give heavy gas’ again in 2004 would be completely wrong in relation to the objective of a steady and gradual increase in the use of oil money. In the budget, the Government therefore proposes to balance the increase in the use of oil money for the years 2003 and 2004. From 2002 to 2003, the Government is proposing an increase in the use of oil money of DKK 2 billion and a corresponding increase from 2003 to 2004. This is in line with the rule of action to which Stortinget has joined. The fall in the global stock exchange thus does not have such a significant impact on the Norwegian economy next year that a more mechanical application of the rule of action would result. At the same time, a high level of interest rates and a strong krone and associated deterioration of competitiveness underline the importance of limiting the expenditure growth of the State budget. The government's arrangements involve a real underlying growth in government budget expenditure of about 0.5 pst. in relation to estimates on accounts for 2002. This is the lowest expenditure growth in a government budget since the mid-1990s. See 2002 and 2003 as a whole, expenditure growth in government budgets is below the economic growth of mainland Norway. This is in line with the objective of the Cooperative Government. The 2003 budget is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. It provides the basis for dampening the pressure on interest rates and the exchange rate, thus contributing to ensuring a continued strong and competitive business. There is no doubt that parts of today's competitive business are struggling. This is due to several factors: Demands outside fail. Cost increases at home, especially as a result of expensive payrolls. Interest rates are high. Measured with the industry's effective crown price, the crown has strengthened by 4 pst. through the last year and by more than 9 pst. this year. The crown has not been stronger since the mid 1980s. The hourly wage costs for workers in the industry were around 22 p.m. higher than our trading partners last year. As a result of the wage settlement and the purchase price, the difference may now increase to over 30 pst. this year. This can lead to large and abrupt conversions. Changeovers are part of the company's everyday life. Therefore, it is not in itself negative for some jobs to be lost or for enterprises to have to renew themselves. However, the danger is that jobs will disappear faster than new ones do. There is a link between the use of oil money on the State budget and the development of the competitiveness of industry. The longer we go about increasing the use of oil revenues, the higher the interest rate and the stronger the price of oil. However, the current deterioration in the competitiveness of industry cannot be attributed solely to the increased use of oil revenues resulting from the rule of action. This does not mean that it is irrelevant how fiscal policies are designed through the annual budgets. By agreeing to the rule of action, the size has done nothing but to define the framework. So the political majority agrees on how much money is going to be spent. However, we disagree more on how to use the money. The government believes it is absolutely essential that the increased use of oil revenues leads to lower taxes and taxes. There are two main reasons for this. Firstly, lower taxes and taxes give less pressure to the economy than a corresponding increase in expenditure would give. This mitigates the need for a tight monetary policy with high interest rates and a strengthened exchange rate. Secondly, lower taxes and taxes contribute to a better functioning of the economy and thus to an increase in economic growth. This ensures the living conditions of individuals and ensures the funding base for the welfare society in the years to come. In addition, increased public expenditure will lead to even more labour being seized by the public sector, as we have seen in the 1990s. In 10 years, the number of government employees has increased from 600 000 to 725000 last year. The scarcity of labour, which helps to explain the expensive wage-earnings, is largely due to the policies of previous governments. We have seen much stronger growth in the public sector than in most other countries. The government, for its part, will contribute to: lower taxes and fiscal framework budgets that reduce expenditure growth in the public sector limit the growth in the number of public service jobs that facilitate more jobs and increase competition in the production of goods and services The 2003 draft budget contributes to all these issues. Competition is a good tool for providing good services to citizens. A recent example is the outcome of the Government’s policy for increasing competition in aviation. Following the disappearance of the air passenger charge and the Competition Authority’s decision to abolish the award credits domestically, there has been real competition. This benefits travellers, not least people and businesses in District Norway. Several areas of competition should be encouraged. It is important that competition authorities have overall responsibilities and have the opportunity to act quickly and effectively when competition is restricted. Increased emphasis shall be placed on competition concerns in the handling of complaints under the Competition Act. Other considerations need to be fully documented. The government will go critically through public regulations and mechanisms that may have anti-competitive effects. A key aspect of the review is to ensure a level playing field for private and public actors. The Government wants to ensure that public procurement contributes to competition and opportunities for establishment, and State companies do not contribute to restrictions of competition and monopoly formation. The Government will ensure that public activities are organised and operated in a way that promotes such competition. The aim of the cooperative government is to reduce taxes and taxes by DKK 25 billion over this major period. In addition, the impact of the investment tax, which was removed two days ago. Over the years, several attempts have been made to eliminate this charge. It's 32 years old, and it was introduced as a temporary fee, but it's only now that it's gone. Only in the current year have three unfortunate tax types been removed: the air passenger charge, the double taxation of dividends and, therefore, the extraordinary investment fee. There is evidence of an important change in course in Norwegian policy. To this extent, the Co-operation Board has focused on reducing the level of taxation and taxation of enterprises. The government will now focus on reducing the tax on labour. In this way, individuals can decide more about their own income, while encouraging more people to work more. The policies of former governments, with ever-increasing taxes and taxes, would have been completely wrong medicine for value creation in this country. Several of the reliefs adopted by the Stortinget for the current year are fully reflected in the budget for the next year. This, of course, gives less room for new reliefs. However, we have found room for new tax cuts of a total of DKK 1 billion in the budget for next year. Total tax relief reduces revenue in the 2003 budget by DKK 10.6 billion. For 2002 and 2003, the total amount of relief is more than DKK 17 billion, including the loss of the investment fee of a total of DKK 6 billion. The government will continue to reduce taxes and taxes in the coming years, with particular emphasis on benefits for large groups. Changes in the tax system in 2004 and 2005 will be assessed in the light of the suspension of the Skauge Committee and, of course, the consultation process after the suspension, which will be available at the end of this year. For 2003, the Government proposes to increase the entry point in the top tax from today’s level of 320000 DKK to 340700 kroner. Thus, in two years, the ceiling on peak taxes has increased by more than NOK 50000. This means that 135,000 fewer people will pay top taxes next year than two years ago. The government also increases the minimum deduction from NOK 43 000 to NOK 45 700. The government's aim is to remove the house tax entirely during the period. Since last year’s Stoltenberg government wanted to increase the housing tax, the Cooperative Government reduced it by raising the bottom line. Next year, the tax on owner-occupied dwellings will be reduced, but this time by reducing the values of the equations. The government wants to stimulate increased contributions to non-governmental organisations, which carry out valuable societal efforts in many areas. The Government therefore proposes to raise the ceiling on the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations to NOK 6000. With this, the gift-deduction is an autonomous deduction, excluding the deduction from the trade-union quota. The union quota is also proposed to be increased, from NOK 900 to NOK 1 100. The employer's coverage of both treatment insurance and direct treatment costs for employees shall be exempted from taxation from 2003. This is a follow-up to the Sem Declaration, as well as to previous decisions on enlargement following the agreement with the Progress Party on revised national budget this year. The aim is to bring sick and injured people back to work faster. We also propose new tax reliefs in the 2003 budget directly targeted at businesses. The corporate research and development tax credit scheme is extended to all enterprises to stimulate business to focus more on research and development. This extension involves a tax relief of 400 million. kr. It has been said in the past from this pulpit that everything is linked to everything in politics. The current debate on the conditions of the competitive sector illustrates this clearly. If the public sector continues to grow in the same way as it has in the last ten years, we are destroying for the creation of value and thus for future growth. It is therefore important to make clear priorities on the expenditure side. Within a tight budget, the Co-operation Board has focused on making clear policy choices. The international situation shows us how vulnerable modern society can be. The fight against terrorism is a struggle to secure the individual's freedom. Therefore Norway is actively participating, together with our allies, in this fight. The government has placed great emphasis on following up the agreed defence plans, as laid down for the years 2002 to 2005. For 2003, this represents a historically high budget framework for defence. Within tight budgetary frameworks, the government has also found room for important measures to further develop and improve the welfare society. It is a paradox that we see trends in new poverty in one of the richest countries in the world. It testifies that our welfare systems, which are largely general and will hit everyone, do not always hit those who need it the most. The aim is that no one should live in poverty in Norway. The government will prevent poverty and help people out of poverty. Priority will be given to measures that strengthen links with the labour market. The government also provides for long-term and targeted work to reduce drug problems. Together with the budget, there is also a big message that sets out strategies, actions and further work to combat poverty problems. The fight against poverty also applies most to those who suffer most, namely the millions of people who every day are without food and do not have the necessary livelihoods, and I am talking about developing countries. The government's goal is to step up the assistance to 1 pst. of gross national income during this gross national income period. For 2003, we get to 0.93 pst. This increase occurs even though the level of gross national income is significantly adjusted. It is the result of new national accounts figures from the Statistical Central Bureau. The government proposes an increased bet on kindergartens of about DKK 1.7 billion next year. This is the largest investment in kindergartens that has been promoted in any Norwegian state budget. We're proposing to increase the state subsidy so that it facilitates an average parental payment of about NOK 2 500 per person. the month of a full-time slot. This shall apply to both private and municipal kindergartens. The draft budget also facilitates the creation of 12,000 new kindergartens next year, including: through the continuation of the incentive subsidy in 2003. There is broad agreement on the main objectives of kindergarten policy, and the Government is following up the main points of the decision of the Grand Duchy on kindergartens through this strong initiative. However, at the same time, the Government refers to the point of the agreement regarding the possibility of adjustments in the event of significant deviations from the basis on which the agreement is based. The government has launched a comprehensive investigation into the impact of introducing the maximum price and will come back to this issue in the revised national budget. The government promotes, among other things: in this context, proposals to introduce a maximum price are not now being made. The introduction of the maximum price could have adverse consequences both for kindergarten development and for cost developments in the kindergarten sector. The kindergarten agreement did not contain proposals for containment. The government proposes to remove the childcare supplement from the second six months to cover this bet. The individual's freedom of choice is central. Therefore, the cash support is increased corresponding to the reduction in the infant supplement. In this way, those who choose solutions other than kindergartens will come out just as well. A central point of the Government’s commitment to transport and the environment is the strengthening of public transport. In this area, the Government proposes increased appropriations and will in particular enhance the accessibility and user-friendliness of public transport in the major cities. Health and care are a high priority in the 2003 state budget. A growth in the Ministry of Health budget of nearly DKK 8 billion, compared with the 2002 budget, provides room for action in key areas such as mental health, the hospital sector in general and health measures for drug users. The government has given priority to strengthening the supply of those groups that have traditionally been low priorities in healthcare. The Psychiatric Plan is being followed up with the strongest increase of one year since the adoption of the plan by the Stortinget in 1998. Health measures for drug users are strengthened and the cancer plan is completed as planned. With the introduction of a self-interest measure 2, there is also a protective system for those who really have the high health costs. This is done in combination with an increase in the proportion of equity in some areas. From 2003 a new global system for the management and financing of investment in public health enterprises will be introduced. The new system facilitates a greater overall responsibility for the investment activities of regional health establishments. This is expected to provide efficient resource use. Knowledge is the key to coping with today's society. This applies both to individuals and to enterprises. Knowledge enables us to better meet the challenges and make the choices we face. For companies competing on a global market, high levels of competence are particularly important. Research efforts are still too low in Norway. The Government therefore proposes a significant increase in the appropriations for long-term basic research and for the other priority areas of research policy. The capital of the Research Fund is proposed to be increased by DKK 3 billion, so that the fund's capital will be DKK 30 billion in 2003. The research and development tax deduction scheme is, as I said, extended to all enterprises. In order to follow up the quality reform in higher education, it is proposed to allocate more than half a billion dollars. This is almost a doubling of the year's budget. In addition, the appropriations for research in the university and higher education sectors are increased. The government is also continuing its work on improving the quality of school. Among other things, the special grant scheme is extended to award and demonstration schools to stimulate development work. The Government will consider extending the scheme to apprenticeships as well. It is important to strengthen training in basic subjects of Norwegian and mathematics. For the current year, it is decided to increase the number of hours in Norwegian. Now we propose, among other things: to grant scholarships for the further training of teachers in these basic subjects. For the Cooperative Government, it is important to have a forward-looking commitment to the environment and energy that contributes to sustainable development. The government will strengthen environmental efforts in several areas in 2003. The clean-up work in contaminated sediments is intensified. The protection of important natural areas is strengthened and the Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund becomes operational from 1 January. The business environment has been greatly improved through lower taxes and taxes. In addition, we will strengthen access to capital through some fund and development schemes. A new district fund will be set up from 1 July with the corresponding loan framework and loss allocation. The appropriations allocated to county councils are increased to include: funds may be used for local food funds. In today’s situation with increasing unemployment, the Government has seen the need to strengthen Aetat. Particular attention is paid to strengthening the follow-up of the unemployed. The number of response sites is increased by a total of 600 compared to 2002. The need for further labour market measures will be assessed on an ongoing basis. In addition to these priority areas, expenditure related to established welfare schemes in the area of population protection is also marked in 2003. From the previous year to 2003, the impact of existing legislation on public health is now estimated to result in a real increase in expenditure of around DKK 8 billion compared to the balance of the budget. Overall, in 2003 the cost of population protection is now estimated to exceed DKK 200 billion. In the autumn of 2001, the government of Stoltenberg entered into an intention agreement with the social partners on a more inclusive working life. One of the objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding is to reduce total sick leave by at least 20 pst. during the contract period. However, since the conclusion of the agreement, sick leave has increased significantly. For the next year, sick leave is estimated to be around 9 pst. over the absence in 2001. During 2003, we came mid-term. A smooth phasing in of the objectives of the intention agreement, with an even distribution in the absence reduction between the employer’s period and the social security period, would mean that sick leave was reduced by about 10 pst by that date. The difference between 9 pst. growth and 10 pst. falls in sick leave amount to approximately DKK 4.5 billion. If the worrying development of sick leave persists, the Government will have to consider increasing the use of economic instruments. In the context of tight budgetary frameworks, it has been necessary to propose some tightening. The day-to-day pay system shall provide financial security for the unemployed while finding new employment but shall at the same time encourage individuals to seek employment. In order to balance these considerations, the Government considers it important to maintain a high level of unemployment compensation but to limit the maximum social benefit period. At the same time, the system shall be designed for persons who have had a stable and real connection with employment and labour income as the main source of living. The government will therefore propose adjustments to the system that target the scheme more against that group. The government’s objective is to provide Norway with an attractive country of localisation for Norwegian and foreign shipping companies. In view of the demanding budgetary situation, the Government will give priority to the overall business environment and reduce the industry-specific support. The reimbursement scheme for seafarers and the net pay scheme for staff on international ferry companies are therefore proposed to be abolished. At the same time, the government is proposing to raise the maximum amount of the deduction for seafarers and fishermen from 70 000 to 80 000 kroner, i.e. for the individual. We are also proposing to reduce the amount of funding allocated to the school leisure scheme. This could lead to the user payment, given that other assumptions are unchanged, increasing by about 150 kroner a month. The government is proposing a conversion of the criteria for gravitational assistance. In this way, support is targeted at those with the worst economy. For them, the aid is increased. At the same time, the Government proposes to liquidate the ordinary burial aid. Although the revenue from oil and gas is currently high, we will also receive considerable expenditure in the future. The state’s future pension liabilities amount to a total of NOK 3,400 billion. The Petroleum Fund corresponds to only about one fifth of this amount. Of course, it helps, but Norway is not predestined to have to make important reforms in its pension system. The Pension Commission — under the direction of one of my predecessors — presented a preliminary report a few weeks ago. It underlines the need to put in place, over time, measures to limit the strong growth of pension expenditure in order to ensure that the pension system becomes economically sustainable over time. The government's objective is to implement a security reform of popular security. We want the pension system to provide security for the future of the population by being economically sustainable.We want the pension system to stimulate increased labour input and we want all pensioners to remain guaranteed a minimum pension. It is natural that the State assumes its obligations to ensure economic and social protection for all older people. Pensions may not be made unilaterally depending on previous income or payments to the pension scheme. The Pension Commission is clear that we should establish a fund solution for some of the people's rights. The government understands that the choice of fund solution will depend on the choice of pension scheme, and the Commission will make a possible choice here. The Government will await the final proposals of the Pension Commission, which will only come in autumn 2003. It is my hope that we, as politicians in Norway during this ageing period, will provide the basis for a social security reform of the pension system. Such a reform must be broad, politically anchored. Tomorrow's pensioners cannot live with different systems as political majority changes. Norway is, as I began to say, a rich country, and the oil and gas should of course have some of the credit for it. However, we cannot live on the oil revenues alone. We must first of all live by the values created in the country. Our workforce is actually 15 times more valuable than the value of oil and gas, both the one we've pumped up and that's in trust, and the one that's still below the sea bed. The debate on the conditions of the competitive sector nowadays clearly illustrates the need to focus efforts on value creation. The government has stressed in the 2003 draft government budget that the budget should be well adapted to the economic situation. The budget is tight to secure jobs and to dampen the pressure on interest and the exchange rate. By facilitating increased value creation and a strong, competitive business, we also provide the basis for future well-being. It is my wish that the Storting should be able to get together on a budget that will take care of our businesses and our jobs. The government is inviting the Stortinget to cooperate on the 2003 government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-03.ana.ud2227e327	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the 2003 government and national budget be discussed at a later meeting. – This is deemed to be adopted.
