ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e42	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e51	This matter has been of great interest both in the industry and among animal protection organisations. In the Committee there is an amazing consensus on how we should deal with this. This is mainly about three areas, and I should like to briefly explain how the committee has landed. The first thing is about this about the ban on castration. There the Committee has stated – not unanimously, it is with the exception of the Centre Party – that we want to introduce a ban on the castration of piglets from 1 January 2009. The second question that has been raised for discussion is how to deal with castration until the ban in 2009. The Committee unanimously agreed to introduce castration by anesthetic and veterinary means from 1 August onwards. This case has created a good deal of discussion in the industry, and the Committee has put forward a clear indication that it is conditional on an active anaesthetic that works, doing so. For there is also some uncertainty among the veterinary authorities as to whether one is able to get such anaesthetic up, and functionally, until the date set by the Committee. The third question that the Committee has discussed is who is going to pay. Who is to pay the extra cost of having a veterinarian carrying out this castration? The Committee did not agree. SV and the Central Party have a proposal where we propose that the State cover the additional costs outside the agricultural settlement. This is not the majority for, but I am promoting this proposal on behalf of the SV and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e66	Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e69	This legislative proposal now under consideration is a follow-up to decisions taken in Stortinget in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 68 for 1999-2000. The majority of the business committee at that time proposed that the government should urgently promote a legislative proposal which would prohibit the castration of pigs. In addition, the Committee proposed that during the transitional period only veterinarians be able to carry out castration. Those of us who were in Stortinget in December 2000, remember that the debate had a reasonably high temperature. It makes sense for the government to come back so quickly with such a case. It was also said in the majority proposal at the time: ‘It must also be taken into account that there should be no derogation from the provision to use anaesthetic in surgical procedures on pigs and other animals where the procedure can be expected to cause ‘very bad’.’ The decision we are making today is another step in the right direction towards good animal welfare in Norway. I want to give tribute to the Animal Alliance for the work they do in this way, but also to the industry, which has been positive in this context, even though it has had some counter-representation with regard to the proposals, especially with regard to the use of anesthesia. In the course of the process, we have raised questions as to whether we should not postpone this matter and deal with it together with the announced notification of stock protection and animal health, which is likely to come to the harvest. There's no reason. This proportion is a follow-up to the almost unanimous decision in December 2000. During the work on this proposition, I have found that there has been little disagreement about imposing a ban on castration. There has been some uncertainty about which year it is to be introduced. When the industry and research communities have been given a period of time until 1 January 2009 to find methods for reducing the substances that cause so-called predatory taste in the meat of male pigs, they have been given a reasonable period of time, the majority of them appear in the Committee. The debate is also taking place in Europe, and research is also going on there. We are convinced that there will be even closer cooperation between Norway and the European countries that have the same interests as us. The difficult part of this case has been the use of stunning, especially because we have understood that the method used today is not entirely satisfactory and that it costs the industry quite heavily. However, we have chosen to go in for castration with anaesthetic, and performed by a veterinarian, during the transitional period, and then we expect this to lead to a further job finding anaesthetic methods that are better than the current one. We from the Workers' Party have not taken part in the proposal from the Centre Party and SV on economic compensation for the industry. We are aware that this could lead to increased prices of pigmeat, but we assume that this will be caught up in the agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e96	Like the representative Fossli, I would like to refer to the request decision that has been dealt with earlier in the Grand Duchy, and that the Government would shortly put forward proposals for a ban on the castration of pigs. During a transitional period, authorised personnel should carry out castration up to a total ban. All parties in the nutrition committee, with the exception of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, supported this proposal for a decision. The main reason for supporting the proposal was to ensure the proper treatment of animals. It is important to remember that castration is a very painful procedure. Pigs are subjected to intense pain during and during the hours following the procedure itself. This position was also supported by central bodies such as the Norwegian Veterinary Association, the State Animal Health Authority and the State Food Authority. The Progress Party will support the Government's proposal to abolish the admission of laymen to castrate pigs, castration by professionals after stunning, and until the animal is four weeks old. Furthermore, we are in favour of a ban on the castration of pigs. In this case, it is important to strike the right balance between animal protection and industrial policy considerations. Castration is now to be carried out by veterinarians and the animals are to be subject to local anaesthetic procedures, and significant progress will be made in the protection of animals, because by using an appropriate method a significant pain relief will be provided during the procedure. Although this involves additional costs, no decisive weight can be assigned. Increased permitted age limits for castration will in many cases also mean reduced costs, as more coal can be castrated at the same time. The protection of animals considers that, with current knowledge, it is possible to introduce a ban on castration with immediate effect. The animal protection alliance considers it important to set a date for the entry into force of the prohibition. The views of animal health surveillance are consistent with those of animal protection. It is considered that the ban can be introduced from 2007. The arguments for this are, among other things, that most people do not understand that something prohibited by law is allowed in practice. Furthermore, it is claimed that sorting methods are already satisfactory today. That it's an advantage to know what to do in the years to come is also from the arguments. Introducing a time would be an incentive to intensify research on inheritance and environment and to develop de-sorting methods that meet the requirement for profitable pig production. On the basis of an overall assessment, the Progress Party considers that the proposal for a ban from 1 January 2009 – which the entire Committee, with the exception of the Centre Party, is behind – will be viable, both for industry and for animal protection organisations. Since all castration of pigs is now to be carried out by a veterinarian and after stunning, it is no longer as urgent to have a total ban imposed. It has everything to gain by first implementing a development that prevents undermining the economy in production. The industry is intensifying this work in cooperation with the other Nordic countries and with research communities in Norway. Although studies show slightly different results, there is reason to believe that a minimum of 15-20 pst. the meat from non-castrated pigs with current animal material has such high levels of the substances Skatol and Androstenone in question that they must be sorted out. Therefore, a rapid ban will most likely significantly reduce production and, due to unfair distortions of competition, with increased imports from countries that do not wish to practise the same ban, would put Norwegian pig producers outside. A ban from 2009 will put pressure on industry to develop methods of sorting, which will reduce the amount of sorted slaughter. So we in the Progress Party believe that you have everything to gain from spending some time to come up with sensible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e119	Today’s decision puts Norway in a special position – with strict requirements for the castration of pigs and imposed on a development that makes castration of pigs unnecessary before 2009. The decision is taken with one motive: to improve animal welfare for pigs. It is a goal to develop and strengthen animal welfare. But we know that there is professional uncertainty about today's local stunning method is good enough. One also knows that there is a professional discussion about how stunning by castration of male pigs should be carried out in practice. We will refer here to Ot.prp. No 36, which says that the ministry will ask the Norwegian veterinary school to complete the work on developing a useful stunning method. The Government Party argued that prior to the entry into force of the Veterinary Stunning Order, a recommended method must be applied from the Veterinary Högskulen, i.e. a method which causes less pain to the pig than the current castration practice. Should the demand for stunning by castration lead to capacity problems for the veterinarians, I suggest that the Ministry of Agriculture takes the initiative to solve these problems. Both pig producers and the ministry have a goal of working to secure and strengthen pig production as a district industry through financial framework conditions to adapt today's structure. The cost of castration is relatively high, especially for a small producer, where it per person. Visits are few coal — perhaps only one — that can be castrated, compared to a larger producer, where it per year. visits can usually be castrated more coal. The Ministry of Agriculture has concluded, on the basis of a calculation from the NILF and on the basis of a report from the industry, that costs will be between 30 and 35 million. kr. In addition, the costs of additional work for the farmer will arise in the form of additional time spent. This is calculated as approx. Five million. kr. So the total additional expenditure for pig producers will be about. Forty million. kr per. years, i.e. at the lower edge of 700 kroner per month. breeding sows. The industry has carried out a strong efficiency and modernisation process in order to become as competitive as possible in relation to the price of pigmeat. Our castration requirements will apply special cost supplements to the industry, as other countries have not introduced veterinary stunning requirements. The industry has already invested and in the years to come will spend a lot of research to solve the problems surrounding the production of pig meat from non-castrated pigs. The Government Party will therefore ask the Ministry of Agriculture to be positive that the compensation theme will be included in the forthcoming agricultural negotiations. This is important, not least because the economy of too many pig producers is already under pressure. A cost compensation is applicable during a transitional period until we can stop throwing pigs. It is a rather consonant call from Stortinget today – as far as I can understand. The aim of this research and development process is to make castration of pigs unnecessary as soon as possible. The decision today is somewhat controversial, but with a positive attitude to cooperation between industry, the professional community and the ministry on progress and action, it should facilitate more animal-friendly development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e136	The centre party takes note that this is a matter which has been dealt with several times in Stortinget and which has created a quite extensive debate. I believe that there is also reason why it has created a debate, whether it is necessary to do so in the way it is now being put up to, and also the costs that this actually entails. The centre party takes note that a majority in this Chamber wishes to introduce a ban on castration and that in the meantime one should be able to castrate pigs using anaesthetic. We agree to that, but we believe that one should have given room for a transitional period until one stops castrating pigs that had been slightly longer than the majority put up to. I think it is necessary if the industry is to be able to carry out the conversion it is currently undergoing and if one is to be given the opportunity to implement the measures that are absolutely necessary to achieve the quality of the meat which a person wishes to achieve when, after a transitional period, castration ends. The centre party is disappointed that it is not possible to obtain support for a proposal to increase the appropriations in order to cover some of the costs incurred by the industry, costs to cover an intervention that the majority of this position says is important and necessary. We know that the practitioners of this industry are already heavily under pressure on the income side, and for many smaller practitioners, this will be a huge cost. I think it is positive if the Council of State takes the call from the Christian People's Party to address this issue in the coming agricultural settlement. It seems to me to have been important as a handshake, especially to the smaller manufacturers who are exposed to a very strong conversion. But in that case, it should not affect others in the industry. This should therefore not be done at the expense of other operators in the agricultural sector. The centre party also believes that the transitional period itself, until a cessation of castrating pigs, will have to mean an increase in the appropriations for research and development in this area. It has to be done if one is to achieve the objective of getting the percentage of boars sorted down to 5 pst. It is a very ambitious goal, and it is a goal that can hardly be achieved with the efforts we have today in research and development. There's a whole lot of other resources that we need to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e149	I will link some comments to this amendment. The Government has submitted a proposal proposing amendments to the Animal Protection Act in respect of pig castration. The amendments are based on the request decision taken by the Stortinget during the Ot.prp process. No 68 for 1999-2000 on amendments to the Animal Protection Act. The Government has proposed the introduction of a ban on pig castration, which will enter into force after publication. Until the prohibition enters into force, only veterinarians shall be able to castrate pigs using anaesthetics. I take note of the fact that the Economic and Social Committee has set a date, 1 January 2009, for the entry into force of the prohibition, and set a date, 1 August 2002, for the entry into force of the transitional arrangements for the placing on the market of pigs by veterinarians only in the event of anaesthetic use. I also take note that access has been granted to veterinarians to castrate pigs when specific reasons for use make this necessary. Such castration will, in my view, have a very small extent. With the introduction of this legislative amendment, Norway is in a special position in the field of animal protection. No other country has imposed a ban on pig shedding. Nor is there any other country that has introduced a requirement that all piglets should be castrated by a veterinarian, using anaesthetic. I note that the Committee asks the Government to put in place measures aimed at getting the share of unsorted robbers into less than 5 pst. by the end of 2008. The Committee further asks the Government to put in place measures to develop the uses of pig meat with a smell of swine. The Government will work, within established budgetary frameworks for research and in cooperation with the industry, to develop methods that can contribute to the achievement of these objectives. Finally, the question of the additional costs incurred by the industry. In the run-up to the agricultural settlement, at the stage we are currently in, there are just questions about the costs and cost increases that the industry is facing, which is the most important thing when the state is to measure its input into the negotiations. And perhaps the most exciting of all at this stage is how cost developments have been in the last year, which will be the basis for the negotiations to take place. In an industry with such a low profitability, the cost issues themselves are crucial to providing the industry with more profitability. The main principle must be to do what you can to keep the cost growth in check, because it is the most important thing to achieve better income for the industry's practitioners. Then it is in the policy that, throughout the year, we contribute in various ways to ensuring that cost increases always come, and that is what the agricultural agreement is all about. Today's Odelstinget decision imposes a new cost on the industry. It will form part of the basis for the country's involvement in the agricultural negotiations, as requested by a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e168	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e176	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e183	During the debate, Mr Ryan, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the proposal contained in the vote on page 3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a scheme outside the agricultural agreement whereby any additional costs incurred by the farmer in connection with veterinary intervention during transitional periods shall be borne by the State Treasury.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e247	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-08-lower.ana.ud2254e257	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
