ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e49	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Socialist Left Party and 5 minutes for each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following comments from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e58	When Odelstinget today decides to repeal the acquisition law, it is a last farewell to Norwegian industrial concession law. The Ervervslaw replaces the Industrial Concession Act of 1917, which required foreigners and foreign legal entities to apply for a concession in the case of the purchase of immovable property in Norway. For when Norway concluded the EEA Agreement, it was necessary for a far-reaching law that was characterised as discriminatory in relation to non-residents. In fact, in the debate on the accession to the EEA, it was used as an argument that the proposal on the table of acquisition laws would meet some of the control needs lost by Norwegian government powers by joining the four freedoms. I shouldn't say they were tricked, those who went into these premises, but now it turns out that an important premise for that, for example. large parts of trade support the law and entered the EEA, now applicable. The introduction of the acquisition law was a comma, the repeal of the law today is the final sentence of the necrologist of Norwegian industrial concession law. The object of the acquisition law is not clearly formulated in the legal text or in the pre-work. However, the majority of the Committee stressed that it had three main objectives: to ensure that the information and the expression of rights of expression in the context of acquisition are secure information to the board of directors on matters relating to ownership of business to function preventively in relation to unprofitable investors; One must, of course, see the experience of the acquisition law in connection with the fact that the State has been reluctant to impose both concession requirements and to take action when the requirements are broken. But that the law has not been properly applied can be no argument that the law is not useful and should therefore be abolished. That is the majority of the Committee's opinion. The Ministry’s argument for repealing the law is primarily that of industrial policy and economics. A focus also focuses on the fact that the law has had no purpose. The business organisations have supported the repeal of the law on the basis of similar arguments. In the hearing, the employee organisations have mainly opposed the proposal for a repeal. But there are also some critical comments from other hearing authorities, where arguments have been based on preparedness for older concession terms. The Progress Party supports the Government's proposal to repeal the Act, while the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party oppose it. The Christian People's Party, which in its time passed the law – contrary to the others who have always opposed it – is now also in favour of suspension, despite the fact that, when the law was passed, they strongly argued for changes in the old concession law, which had ‘prevented foreign capital from securing control and we became housekeepers in our own country’. I'm assuming that in addition to this, the multiples in the room themselves will argue for their own positions. The Ministry argues that, in the context of the purchase of Norwegian enterprises, the acquisition law is less far-reaching and can therefore lead to a delay in the purchase process. The Ministry suggests that this suggests that it is difficult to raise the necessary capital to Norwegian business. The majority of the Committee disagrees with this assessment. The plural does not mean that the law is a serious obstacle to the establishment of capital in Norway. The Ministry itself presents figures showing that foreign direct investment in Norway has grown strongly over the last decade. Foreign ownership in Norway is increasing. Foreign ownership can be good in many ways. History has shown that it can lead to the introduction of foreign competence, to name a few. Today, however, we see a trend in which the proportion of foreign ownership increases, without increasing research or building up skills. In my opinion, the main reason is that the deregulation of the economy has led us to be without mechanisms that enable us to make demands on the owners. The acquisition law could have been such a mechanism. For SV, concession law is an important management tool to prevent the slaughter of holdings, to prevent deflagration and to prevent over-concentration of owners. Stable and long-term ownership is an undertaking to sustain and further develop Norwegian business. But there is no hiding that some purchases are motivated only by the desire for short-term profits. In the deregulated economy, speculators win at the expense of workers and society otherwise. There is then good reason for the governance to continue to need control of ownership change in business. The Committee has discussed the EEA and ESA a great deal in connection with this law. In the letter dated 24 March 2000, ESA claims that the acquisition law is contrary to EEA law. The majority in the committee believe that as long as the case is not resolved, and Norway has not provided any confirmation to ESA, the ESA's assessment cannot be an independent argument that the law should be repealed. So I'm going to be the first to admit that the Department of Proposition writes that it's the industrial policy arguments that weigh more heavily in relation to the repeal of the law, and that therefore they haven't seen the need to evaluate the ESA's comments further. However, in a letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that ‘one must assume that the ESA considers that the acquisition law as such is contrary to the EEA Agreement’. I have a certain impression that ESA's assessment has been very pleasant for those who have wanted the law to go away, even though it is not formally used in the argument for suspension. Recognising that there are multiples in Odelstinget to repeal the law, they have added their organisations to promote a subsidiary desire that what is about adding their rights to the law is incorporated into other laws. The Ministry has assessed this, but has not found it advisable and argues that the new Labour Law Committee will address the issue. However, a new labour law can be applied at the earliest opportunity during 2005, and the consequence of the lifting of the law by Odelsting today is that they are adding their rights to it. There have been a number of cases in the Committee to ensure that they are added to other legislation. Among other things, there has been a great deal of focus on the fact that ‘reverse’ information obligations may have worked positively, because conflict has simply been avoided. The majority therefore believe that the business community as a whole is not interested in adding them to the right to information, and we believe that they should add their rights during the transitional period to any new labour law. The Committee's attitude, which unfortunately does not represent the same majority as in Odelstinget, is therefore to ask the Government to come back with proposals for changes when they attach their right to information and pronunciation in connection with acquisitions and with proposals for sanctions if not. A number in the committee, which also makes up a number in Odelstinget, i.e. The Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre have requested that the information obligation for the «Assurance» be respected in other legal acts if the acquisition law is repealed, but we have disagreed on how best to do so. The party of progress, together with the government parties, has created a separate proposal which does not go as far as the proposal for the majority in the Committee. But the present proposal is too bad. It's like: ‘The new holder shall hold an information meeting with employees on the transfer of business and on the impact on employees at the latest when the transfer of business is made public.’;» Here, a right that is already in the Working Environment Act extends to include them, and not only those who trust in the Work Environment Act. But that's not what this thing is about. What we're discussing here is that we lack rights and obligations relating to share purchases. The rights and obligations that currently have doctors in the acquisition law are now missing. The proposal that is on the table from the Government Party and the Advance Party is not good enough if you want to preserve the rights of those added at the change of ownership. I should therefore like those who really want to take care of the added rights, rather than the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e107	The case rapporteur has had a very good review of the case, and since the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party are united on the majority position, she has been given the main arguments for keeping the law. We can't understand why it's necessary to repeal the law. The argument that the law is little used and that it should therefore be repealed is a bad argument. The fact that the law is little used may mean that it has seemed preventative, and that therefore unprofessional acquirers have kept away from buying – and then the law has fulfilled their intention. Another important argument for keeping the law is that it allows the Government to control a certain amount of ownership change. It's strange that the Bondevik government is giving away this control capability. When the law was introduced in its time, it was emphasised that one of the purposes of the law was that the law should provide the authorities with control over ownership and ownership of industrial activities of a certain size. In addition, the Government would have the opportunity to intervene in the development of less desirable ownership structures in each sector and area. The law is also important in terms of regional policy. Norway is a country where small communities are dominated by corner stone holdings, and the existence of many communities depends on such enterprises. The law allowed the Government to keep a certain level of control of such enterprises, which is important in terms of employment and housing in the districts. As regards the relationship with the EEA Agreement, one may enter into: O. No 16 for 1994-1995 read as follows: ‘The proposal points out that the draft law has not been drawn up in a discriminatory manner. The law is not intended to apply specifically to foreign purchases in Norwegian enterprises. The Ministry underlines the non-discrimination principles underlying the EEA Agreement and will use them in its practice of law against different investors.» I record that the Government is following the ESA's claim that the acquisition law is contrary to the EEA Agreement, which was worked to avoid by the introduction of the law in its time. I also record that the government has not taken any interest in evaluating the comments from ESA and therefore has not taken this into account at all, but has taken other considerations into account when repealing the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e125	The previous speaker concluded by pointing out that the government has not cared about going through the comments that have been referred to regarding ESA. The reason for this is precisely that this has not been the reasons of the Government to propose the winding up of the law. But I think that if you had taken that way, it would in itself have been more than good enough to use as a main reason for breaking the law, because this is nothing but a kind of experiment that Norway the only country in Europe is still operating with. With seven years of experience with this law that was established with effect from 1 January 1995, we all know that we need to ask ourselves the question: is this law necessary? What kind of effect does it have, what kind of effect does it have, other than being an extra penalty round for business and for those who sit and will manage the future on behalf of the value-creating Norway? We know that over these seven years, changing governments have received around 2,150 messages about acquisitions, and none of them have refused acquisitions in one single case. When we know that this leads to disadvantages and costs, it is commendable that the Government has taken an initiative to bring this to an end. It is entirely in line with the Government’s wish and aim in its ‘Simplify Norway’ campaign to get rid of these unnecessary costs imposed on business, which over the period have amounted to several hundred million in extra costs. It may create employment in some public agencies, but it is not the ‘Simplifying Norway’ that will contribute to it. That's why this is a law that has survived itself, and that deserves one thing, namely to be dissolved. As others have mentioned and will address, the interests of employees are safeguarded, and it is also protected by laws other than the acquisition law. We will also be able to find the rights and requirements of employees to information about the change of ownership, guaranteed by the work that the Government has undertaken in relation to the Labour Law Committee, which promotes its position if not too much time. That's why this is a step in the right direction. In time, with the support of the Advance Party to the Government, we will be able to put an end to this too, and Norway will be the only country in Europe to remain and have such a law in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e132	I'm going to start by recording the proposals No. 1 and 2, referred in the setting, on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, so I'm sure it won't be forgotten. The Progress Party supports the Government’s proposal to repeal the Act on the Acquisition of Enterprises. For us, it is important that the Government carry out a careful review of all legislation relating to the situation of traders, make necessary simplifications where possible, and remove laws and regulations that only contribute to red tape and costs to business. The Occupational Code is a good example of the latter, a good example of a law that can be repealed with advantage. The purpose of the law has been to safeguard Norwegian interests in an ever-changing international business environment in the context of potential acquisitions of businesses. I believe that we all agree that it is important to ensure that significant parts of Norwegian business remain on Norwegian hands, and that public authorities have to establish an industrial policy that ensures this. We believe that there must be a completely different way of doing this than a law of acquisition. The evaluation of the acquisition law shows that the law has not fulfilled the intentions it was supposed to have and that the law has almost not been in use. In the time that the law has worked, no acquisition has been refused. This may indicate that the need for such a law is not as great as what was initially believed. The Progress Party believes that the evaluation shows that it has never met the intention it was supposed to have. The case also shows that the law has resulted in high costs for business, a business that already has a heavy burden on expenses and taxes, and that the law has benefited most from the law. It's been good lawyer food. The removal of a law that has brought as much cost to business as that law has should be a brand day in business policy. In addition, we will probably remove a strange scheme that has helped to weaken Norway's reputation abroad in general and in foreign business in particular. I also refer to ESA's view, that the law is contrary to the point of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of capital and the right to freedom of establishment. However, the Progress Party believes that it is important that employees of enterprises exposed to buying-in are informed of changes in ownership that will affect their everyday life and life. The government has announced that it will address this issue in the work of a new labour law. That is good, but we are of the opinion that the rights of employees must be guaranteed in the best possible way until the result of this work is achieved. We believe, like the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, that there must be a provision in the Working Environment Act that ensures the needs of employees for information. We believe that a provision can be included in the Working Environment Act § 73 E that ensures this. In this context, it is important that employees are briefed on what is happening in the enterprise. It should be a matter of course that everyone is given an orientation about the workplace they are in much of their life. Now more people have argued that this is not the most comprehensive, but what we have come up with is at least an additional effect in relation to today's legislation when the acquisition law is repealed. The Progress Party hopes that when we have this law repealed, we will also do what we set out to do, reduce the form field and bureaucracy, and therefore unnecessary costs for business in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e151	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e154	Concession laws have been of great importance to Norway, so today's decision is a landmark. But after my and Christian People's Party's assessment, time has gone away from the need to have such a law that regulates sales of property. It takes a certain courage on the part of politicians to make changes. There are always groups or concerns saying that a known person yesterday should also be present tomorrow. Therefore, there should be a certain initiative and a certain back to go on change. One will usually meet with some reluctance and some criticism, with the risk it creates. In my opinion, the acquisition law was a leading law: after the entry into the EEA Agreement, one in Norway would have a means of securing business in the event of certain situations. The idea was good, but the practice we have seen shows that there was no need for this law. We in the Christian People’s Party also see a great point in working for ‘Simplifying Norway’. We just need to realize that we need to achieve this, we need to remove some rules, laws and statutes. And this doesn't just apply to Norway, because we see that from outside Norway there is almost a stream of supply coming across the country, which we have to take care of in a modern everyday life. It is therefore important to take such initiatives as today to remove what does not fulfil any specific purpose. The fact that no other country in Europe has such a legal asylum today is an additional argument. For the Christian People's Party, it's not an argument that ESA seems to be in doubt that this is a legal means. In any case, we would have agreed to repeal this law, in order to simplify the everyday life of the larger companies. In order to ensure that they add their needs and interests, we will support the inclusion in the Work Environment Act of a rule that the information needs they want to provide should be met in a transfer situation. Against this background, I would recommend that the Christian People's Party's representatives vote in favour of the government's proposal to lift the acquisition laws. I would also recommend that the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party on the amendment of labour-environment law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e169	I would like to first of all be allowed to thank the case rapporteur for a good and thorough review of the case, and also many good arguments in relation to the position she has in the law. It is a position I share, namely that the law should not be repealed, and that the law could have had an important function if one had shown a different willingness to use the law than has so far been the case. I remember very well when the concession law was lifted. I also remember well when the acquisition law was inserted as the instrument that would replace the concession law. There was no way in which the importance of the EEA-positive majority that introduced the law seemed to be the law on the date of its adoption. It was said from a broad alliance in the staging hall – from the Right to the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – that this was a very important law, which almost as much as the concession law would guarantee Norwegian interests and ensure control of ownership changes in Norway. Today I register that the same EEA-friendly majority is standing and saying that the law has no meaning, and that the law in itself is nothing but paper regulations. Either it's a confession that the same majority today realizes that they were very wrong in 1994, or maybe they were talking to better people in 1994. It's hard to know. The centre party said in the context of the introduction of the acquisition law that this is a bastard law. Because it was. It was not a law that could function in the same way as a concession law did, and it has not been in any way as good as the concession law we had before. That is why we also warned against repealing concession law and replacing it with the acquisition law. But I think that the acquisition law could have become a more important instrument than it has been, if it had been used in another way. I will not ignore the fact that the law has had a preventive effect in relation to both unwanted purchases, unprofessional investors and possible slaughter of businesses. From the employees' team, we know that the law has been considered very important for employees as regards the possibility of both early information and early consultation in relation to possible changes in ownership. For this reason, employees of larger Norwegian companies have also been very concerned that the law should be retained, and that, in particular, the provisions on information and consultation are forward-looking legislation. It is also worth noting that we know that, in the future, the EU is likely to strengthen its legislation and provisions on transfers and the need for information and consultation of employees through the Merger Regulations. In this context, one might consider what we are doing today as a step back in relation to what may be a future international legislation in this area. I don't think the argument that the law isn't being used is such a very good argument to cancel the law. We also have provisions in the Share Act on e.g. insider dealing, which is rarely used, but it is not called for because of the repeal of the provisions. It is because one considers, if there is no evidence in any way, that the legislation itself is preventive in relation to, among other things. unprofitable investors. That is why I believe that this effect, including the acquisition law, should not be underestimated. The central party is united with the Labour Party and the Socialist Left on comments and proposals. This means that we believe that the law should have been maintained, and that the interests of employees in particular should have been protected in a better way than what you put in the present position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e184	The Acquisition Act has existed since 1 January 1995 and has enabled the Norwegian authorities to control the purchase of business over a certain size through the obligation to notify the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The law has been evaluated and the evaluation work places particular emphasis on the needs of this type of regulation. In the consultation round, only the workers’ organisations LO, YS and NITO have opposed the repeal of the acquisition law. Subsidy, these organisations have agreed to transfer to other legislation the provisions of the Acquisition Act which give the employees the right to comment to the Ministry and the obligation for the acquirer to hold the information meeting. Experience with the law over seven years has shown that the real need to control ownership changes is low, because there are rarely dramatic changes associated with these. In my opinion, the law has just expired. The law is also a strange phenomenon. Other countries have had similar arrangements, but have abolished them. The proposal to repeal the Acquisitions Act is also the result of the Government's work on business simplification and a follow-up to the Sem declaration that unnecessary legislation should be removed in order to reduce the regulation of the everyday lives of individuals and businesses. Estimates have been made to show that during its lifetime the law may have incurred costs in the Norwegian business life of the order of 100 - 200 million kroner. These costs relate both to the direct costs of the submission of acquisition notifications and to indirect costs such as: delay in carrying out the purchase due to the control of the authority. In addition, of course, the costs that have been incurred in the department. Instead of insisting on regulation that is not needed, we need to use the forces on positive instruments to improve the framework conditions for business. We need to ensure that Norway is attractive through such instruments to start-ups and investments in existing businesses. The benefits of the law for Norwegian authorities, business and employees are now far less than the costs and, I would say, much less than what was assumed when it was introduced. I am pleased that the vast majority of the hearing bodies also agree with this. The regulation through the acquisitions law system is an old-fashioned regulation that no longer works. The system of regulatory control of investments in Norway has led back to the 1880s, when foreign investors were imposed a concession obligation on investments in natural resources. The Acquisition Act, on the other hand, is a non-discriminatory regulation requiring both Norwegian and foreign investors to notify the Ministry of acquisitions. It is worth remembering that of over 2,100 acquisition notifications no one has been denied. Employee organisations have opposed the repeal of the acquisition law. The preparatory work of the Acquisitions Act referred to employee rights being governed by the rules of the Shares Act, the Labour Environment Act and the contract work concluded between the social partners. It was never the intention that the information obligation under the acquisition law should imply an obligation for the transferee to initiate discussions or negotiations with the employees. This was still to be regulated by the contract work between employees and employers. However, when it was decided to have provisions in the acquisition law which gave information and opinion rights to employees, it was among other things. because this would provide employees with a more real basis for giving their views on the purchase at an early stage, while at the same time it would not be particularly burdensome for the acquirer because he was already obliged to inform under other legislation. Experience shows that employees have made very little use of the provision. Of a total of 2147 messages, there are only 91 cases, i.e. under 5 p.m., where employees have exercised the right to speak to the Ministry. Three of these requested that the acquisition be subject to further testing, and five requested that the acquisition be refused. In 23 cases it was asked that conditions be set, without a specific requirement for further testing or denial. The abolition of the acquisition law will mean that more than 110 years of legal regulation in this area will be abolished. Experience suggests that a regulatory law with regulatory control will not provide management of establishments and investments in existing establishments. Nor is there reason to believe that the law will ensure long-term ownership, rescue corner stone holdings or guarantee rights to employees better than the legislation that has as its primary purpose to ensure this. When the costs of the reporting obligation system for Norwegian business go well beyond its benefits, I believe that the time is ripe for the abolition of regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e211	We have understood that we are likely to lose the fight over the law here in Stortingen, but for us, the employees' rights in this context are very important. It is such that the acquisition law relates to the acquisition of shares in a company, i.e. to the acquisition of 1/3, 1/2 or 2/3 of the shares in a company, while the provisions of the environmental protection law cover business transfer, i.e.: 100 pst. purchases. Therefore, the reasons given by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the note are not in line with the proposal for the new fourth paragraph of Section 73 E of the Working Environment Act, i.e. the proposal proposed by the Government Parties. My question is then: Does the Council of State consider it irrelevant that employees are given information by e.g. 2/3 acquisitions of shares? Would it not be a good thing that employees were given the same rights to information by e.g.: 2/3 purchase of shares as at 100 p.m. acquisition?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e216	First of all, I would like to say that when a company is transferred, in whole or in part, the reality is that the employees are involved in these processes in – I was saying – years in advance. In 99 out of 100 cases, those companies that assess ownership changes will have employees on the team to avoid all the complications that it is not having. And it's actually that in Norwegian companies the employees are represented in the boards. I have no reason to believe otherwise than that when it is in Norwegian companies that the employees have a very prominent position, and in particular perhaps in relation to the change of ownership, it is simply because the company feels it has earned. It actually has nothing to do with the formulations of any law. Now it is also the case that this is regulated in the main agreement. I experience every time I'm around companies in this country, whether small or large, that employees – possibly with people from the board and management – are involved. So it's as natural that all of these parties act. My experience is definitely that this has nothing to do with this legal regulation. I see it absolutely so that, in the case of transfers, the companies already involve the employees, in whole or in part. In the companies where the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself is involved, and where we're actually doing some processes related to this, it's obvious that the employees are involved. I see no reason to regulate this beyond what is proposed by the government parties. We also know that there is a labour force committee that is looking at this in order to anchor it in the law. However, I believe the employees are definitely doing this through the main agreements they have. And it's primarily because the companies see themselves earning to have the employees on the team that this is going brilliantly, without the Storting adopting a law of acquisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e227	I have before commended the Council of State for having a clear ideological superstructure for its business policy, even though I do not like his ideology. I am therefore not of those who thought it completely hopeless that the argument of the Council of State to abolish the acquisition law is frail and deficient and, by its very nature, non-exhaustive ideological. I don't see any other reason to repeal the law than general argument in relation to removing all possible obstacles to the free flow of capital, without any thought for the consequences it will bring. It is possible that it is precisely one who has realized that one has needed more concrete argument, which has given the argument that the law must be abolished because the law has not been used. It is with respect to report an unusually simple argument. Concert trust election Rolf Utgård in Kværner says to Today's Business on February 27th this year: ‘The Employment Act ensures information and right of expression for employees at an early stage, and there are many examples of employee requirements being met, so that enterprises avoid further testing and cases being resolved before reaching the Ministry.’ Then I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council not see that when a second proposal for the majority of the committee does not now support it, it loses this possibility, the value that it is that they add information at an early stage, and that it is enshrined in the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e241	I particularly appreciated the introduction to the line. So the question of whether the acquisition law was not involved in preventing the free flow of capital. It is such that there is a general political perception in this country, and in this big deal, that capital should flow freely. It shall flow to those areas, to those holdings, to those sectors where the owners see themselves fit to carry out their activities. It is not that the Storting has actually taken on a regulatory role in relation to this. If people want to stop driving the pizza chain and start buying up in aluminum, you do it without asking anyone, and vice versa. You can see now that shipowners buy themselves up in pizza and its likes. I have no reason to believe that SV could be involved in the idea of starting to regulate this. That means that it is generally accepted that capital flows freely, fortunately. The alternative we've seen further east, and it hasn't worked very well. As for Rolf Utgård and his statements in today's business, I would say that Rolf Utgård, like very many other trustees in Norwegian companies, is doing a brilliant job, even in connection with these business transfers. I have met Rolf Utgård in many ways, including in connection with this. But what I'm sure of is that Rolf Utgård and all the colleagues of Rolf Utgård are going to have exactly the same role in the business transfers that are going to take place afterwards. Rolf Utgård sits on the board of these companies that he's been on, and he like everyone else is on this from an absolutely early stage. Norwegian enterprises in 2002, possibly with some exceptions, which are and will become a parentheses, will of course see themselves profiting from the fact that employees are involved in these things from day one. one. Everything else will surprise me very much. I think it's going to be with this law as with so many other things where someone has gone ahead. One can only imagine that the Workers' Party would come back to the government power. I feel very sure that they will not even think about relaunching the acquisition law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e250	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 479]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e268	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Anita Apelthun Sæle, who is given the floor instead of the rapporteur on the matter, who is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e279	The spokesman for this matter, Ivar Østberg, has no seat in Odelstinget, and I am therefore his station. As a coastal woman, I can't let go of the shipping industry, because it has long and proud traditions in Norway. In fact, our identity as a nation is closely related to shipping. ‘Where a vessel floats, there it is the first man.’ It is important to provide this industry with a framework that allows Norway to continue to be a leading maritime nation. There is hardly any other industry that is as competitive as global competition as the maritime industry. Therefore, it must have framework conditions that do not weaken the ability to compete in an international market. It takes the government seriously. It is such that there is an EU directive and an ILO Convention that is the starting point for this case. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, this will apply to Norway, and the Directive will be implemented mainly in Norwegian law by 30 June. There are not many more days. These Directives are, in fact, concerned with safety at sea and result from a balance between conditions of competition, security and the concerns of working conditions added to them. And the result is to live with, I thought, in the areas it's in. Life on board a ship is different than it is on land. This is not to be avoided. Therefore, leisure time on land is extensive. I have noticed that the maritime organisations protest that some rules of the working time law have now been removed, and the protests are, of course, serious. But the parties in the Norwegian shipping industry are well organized. This means that the vast majority of both employers and employees are covered by a collective agreement. This means that most of the conditions in their working conditions are better than the minimum standards previously laid down in the Working Hours Act. So it's not like the sailors have lost their rights. One has only left the regulation of some conditions, such as: the overtime payment rate, to the parties themselves. What should be considered as the normal working time and what should be considered as overtime are still covered by the laws. It is also clear how much a seafarer can work to the maximum. The last one is important for security. A majority of the committee will send the whole thing back to the government, because, as has been said, the laws should not be well worked out. I must admit that I feel the discussion as a storm in a glass of water. One word has been changed. Tariff Agreement has been agreed in Section 7, to ensure that the addition of NIS ships is possible even without a collective agreement. I'd like to think that Saga's getting multiple numbers here in Stortinget tonight. Fishermen are in a different working situation than the ones we call sailors. I am pleased that the Government will return to working time destinations, etc. for these in a matter of their own. It is important, then, that fishermen, who are responsible for an important industry along the coast, are not imposed on working time and sleeping time destinations that do impossible work on boats that are only staffed by a few people, because we have many of them. I recommend the proposal from the minority, and I also recommend voting for point C when it comes up in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e305	In this case, the Committee has been informed of a proposal which is both unfair and, not least, ill-advised. It is a pity, I think, that Odelstinget now has to decide on a matter in which the Council of State makes several changes in the course of the process, i.e. after the cases were transferred to Odelstinget and the committee. The Committee notes that there has been no hearing in the preparation by the Ministry. There has also been no contact between the Department and the social partners in this matter, as far as I am aware. This has been clearly expressed by letters from the maritime organisations in Norway and the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation. After several recordings from just these organizations, the Council of State has replied in letters to the Committee that it has no objections or comments to these amendments at several points. I can refer to the rule in Section 3, not to impose a ban on work beyond 8 hours in the 24-hour period, and the issue of working time and sleep time on ships in the NIS Act § 7 first leak, where the Council of State has also made changes to the legal text itself. The Council of State also wrote to the Committee of 15 May 2002 in the following letters: ‘I have no comments on the deletion of the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 7 of the Norwegian International Ship Register’.» Finally, the Council of State has also amended the text of Section 7, third leak of the last sentence, following suggestions from the Norwegian Shipowners' Association. We can't have it like that. It should certainly have been an advantage to get a broader assessment of such things before the government presented this bill. It is in many ways a bit alarming that the Council of State chooses such a form of work instead of drawing matters back again. I would have liked to see a much broader and more thorough assessment of the views of maritime organisations. This applies in particular in areas related to Section 3 of the bill. So there are several objections to the proposal. I refer specifically to what has an element of a social and economic nature. I understand that organisations react strongly when this area is no longer left to tariff negotiations. I also have a great understanding of the demand from these organisations that the bill should have been set aside for working time and not as proposed, simply for bedtime. The legislative proposal is therefore a consequence of an EEA Directive. The deadline for implementation is 30 June 2002 and 1 August 2003. The Labour Party does not object to this directive, but believes that the department's handling and assessment of the mark in this matter is under all criticism. Therefore, the Labour Party wishes to return the case to the Government, with the exception of the Ministry's proposals for decisions under Roman numeral II. This is also the way the Workers' Party will stand during deconstruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e325	Initially, I would like to agree with the considerations that Anita Apelthun Sæle presented in his article. We, too, on the Right, will support the proposal of a minority in the Chamber which is being transmitted today to the Stortinget. The criticism from the Workers' Party's Sigvald Uppøen Hansen is to refrain from commenting. I'm sure the Council of State itself will find reason to draw out some moments. I will concentrate in this article on the rest period for seafarers. The proposal suggests regulating the rest periods of seafarers instead of working hours. The reason for the regulation of rest periods is the desire, first of all, that the Norwegian legislation at this point be consistent with the law in countries with which it is natural to compare. The shipping industry is an international and highly competitive industry, and we see it as important that the law governing working conditions is consistent with other countries. This applies in particular where the choice made for the law complies with Community law guidelines. We have also stressed the indirect setting of a framework for permitted working time through the regulation of rest periods. However, we would clarify that it is beneficial for the parties to regulate working time and remuneration directly through agreements. Furthermore, we have also stressed that the need for exemptions from the current statutory working time regulations will be reduced by implementing the proposed changes. Furthermore, we have stressed that all employees on board Norwegian ships now have statutory rest periods. We are aware that working and rest time at sea is something quite different than on land, because workers are naturally on the boat so to speak all the time. A seafarer may not use leisure time to the same extent as a seafarer working on land. However, this is compensated for by the fact that seafarers have longer periods of freedom. In return, relatively more work is done during the period on board. We have noticed that the proposed amendments to the law will require minimum rest periods based on what is proper in the operation of ships, while working hours and pay terms will be agreed between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e340	There will not be so much to add to the debate, because the Progress Party agrees with what the rapporteur has presented, and in that context there will be some repetition. However, the Progress Party supports the proposal to regulate the rest periods for seafarers instead of working hours. We believe that this will ensure that the law is more consistent with the law in countries with which it is natural to compare. We know that the industry, as has been said by previous speakers, is an international and highly competitive industry. It is therefore important that the law governing working conditions is in line with the law in other countries. It has also been said in the past that emphasis is placed on the indirect setting of a permitted working time framework through regulation of rest periods. So you might say that the reactions that have come, perhaps especially from the Workers' Party, can be a bit like a storm in a glass of water. But it is clear that the Progress Party also reacted a little to the changes that came along here. For this reason, the progress of the examination of this proposal was also significantly shifted within the Committee, so that the maritime organisations were given the opportunity to consider the changes that had been made and were involved in the Committee. So I'm not going to spend a lot of time criticizing it. What was important to us was that the parties were at least heard here. You can ask yourself if Stortinget should now have sent this case back, whether there had been any change when it had returned. Then it kind of stood in the light that we had only spent a lot of time without having had any change in it. Of course, I would have liked to have asked the Labour Party whether they had changed their position if they had only been sent back to the Government to get it back at a later stage – at least when I heard that Upbeøen Hansen said that they fully supported the directive as it was. What was important for the Progress Party was the relationship with the fishermen. We are therefore pleased that Stortinget gets a separate case about it now, so that we can assess it. Because it's important for the Progress Party to look at the conditions of sailors, who represent a very important industry. For this reason, the Progress Party has also in the past placed great emphasis on the fact that the framework conditions for this industry should be particularly good. Like the rapporteur, I would like to signal that the Progress Party will support the C.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e353	On this matter, there are only two things to say. One is that the issue is about the fundamental in that the proposals relating to working time on ships are the thorough fight on the right side against professional rights for ordinary workers. The second thing to say on this matter is that it has not been implemented in line with the other members of the government said it has been an objective, namely to ensure good dialogue with the employee organisations when changing the material aspects of their working situation. It has been clearly expressed by the maritime organisations that in this case there has been little or no contact between the ministry and the organisations in the preparation of a matter which they see as a clear weakening of professional rights. This is why we wanted to send this case back. In addition, there has been a poor preparation of cases, such as: The buoy Hansen was inside his post. So the core of the case is what Anita Apelthun Seele was in his post. She said the following: it is important not to weaken the opportunities to compete on an international market. This means that for every professional right we have in Norway that they don't have anywhere else in the world, Anita Apelthun Sæle believes that you should remove that right if it could lead to that being a distortion of competition. And I mean, seriously, here in the country, we can introduce ourselves to the fact that we've come a long way in developing good, professional rights. We have developed good democratic opportunities for workers to participate in organisations and to participate in their businesses. If it is to be the case that professional rights acquired are to be thrown onto the boat – literally in this case – simply because in other countries working conditions are worse than those in Norway, we think that we are a long way away. Let's do two examples: I know that Apelthun Soul has children. We can take the rest time. If Anita Apelthun's child Sæle's child came home and said, "I've got two contracts from my employer." One says that I'm going to have a normal working day of 8 hours, and the other says that I can work a maximum of 14 hours every day. What kind of employment agreement would Anita Apelthun Säle recommend their children to sign? Let's do another example - a truck driver. Given that Russian truck drivers do not follow the same driving and rest periods as in Norway, should we weaken our professional rights? Are we going to say that the jam is a distortion of competition, because the Russian drivers have worse regulations than we have, so then we have to remove our driving and rest rules in order to get down to the level with which we are in a way competing? Of course it can't be like that. But this shows the logic that the right side uses to weaken professional rights, and I think it's okay that the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party show their true face in such a case as this. I also think it is important to say that there is not one single point of argument that Norwegian ships and Norwegian shipping companies are losing contracts because workers in Norway have better rest and working time regulations than they have elsewhere. There have been no own arguments that this is important to do something about. It has just been said that since there are worse conditions elsewhere, we should have it in Norway too – and that is the way it is! I belong to the majority of the committee who believe that this law should be sent back, re-prepared and sent back to the Stortinget. Therefore, along with the others, I will go in to reject the whole law. At the same time, I would say that it's very special in an EEA case, which this is in many ways, that when you propose to introduce minimum standards, we don't say that in Norway we have more than the minimum standard and we're proud of that, but you try to regulate down to minimum standards. That's not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e380	Ot. pp. No 51 is about the introduction of an EU directive which provides minimum standards in relation to working time on ships. This case is an example of a case where the Government seemed to be blind to the fact that when the EU requires a directive, and in this case Directive 1999/63EC, introduced before 30 June, it seemed superior rather than bringing a case before the Storting where one sees what the consequences are. The directive therefore regulates the working time of seafarers. This working group represents an industry with rich traditions, with a unique history, and with ring-fences both in business and construction. This is a working group that has met international competition in a special way over a long period of time, and therefore the number has also been significantly reduced in recent years, both in terms of recruitment and in terms of rent. The central party believes that the governance must have a strong commitment to secure the maritime nation of Norway an important role also in the future. We contributed to a good reimbursement system in relation to the wage ratio in 1994, we took the initiative in the Stortingen to a selection to secure a better pension scheme, and followed it up when we put in government. We have also recently taken up the possibility of a policy for machine personnel and co-pilots, so that they can obtain their certificates. We also make a proposal in the revised national budget for net pay. When it comes to the issues that lie here today, we are on guard when there are reactions from employee organisations in relation to the weakening of professional dishes. We were surprised before the case came so far, because there were references to the Committee of the Federation of Shipowners in relation to what was in the proposal from the Government. When it was sent to the Council of State for an appointment, it turned out that the Council of State agreed that there was an improvement. When maritime organisations also asked for improvements in the law, the same goodwill was not present. We thought that the correspondence that has been here, as well as the answer that the mariners' organizations gave to a direct question as to whether there was contact between the ministry and the organizations in preparing this case for the Storting, when the mariners' organizations had to say that it had no contact, told the Stortinget that it must actually have a better basis than that in order to make its decisions. That's what makes us think this case is a candidate for return. We want to know more about what we're doing and about reactions that are, before things are put before the Storting. I'm surprised that the Progress Party now categorically rejects this problem. Two days ago there was a great demonstration here in Eidsvoll's place. Then there was a representative from the Progress Party who produced the party as the leading defender of Norwegian seafarers. One would think that one then in a matter such as this listens to the heavy objections that the mariners' organizations have made to this matter. They're expressing a concern. And despite the fact that this has our various letters that have gone back and forth, we get a letter to the committee, as late as June 10, where it says: ‘We take note of Gabrielsen’s strong commitment to the matter, but not for the benefit of seafarers.’ It indicates, for our part, that we cannot be in a position to introduce this directive now. That should be better reason. So I would say that the Federation of Masters has come to the Storting with a problem in relation to the mariners domestic and foreign and ask to be provided not to those seafarers who do not have a seafarer's deduction, nor to be covered by the work environment legislation. We're glad that such a deal is getting multiples today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e402	The Government proposes amendments to Law No 3 June 1977. 50 on working time in ships, the Working Time Act, and Law 12 June 1987 No. 48 on the Norwegian international register of ships. The basis of the proposition is the implementation of Convention No. 180 on seafarers' working time and crewing of ships. The Convention was adopted at the ILO 84th International Maritime Labour Conference. ILO Convention No 180 were submitted to the Stortinget which, on 13 November 1998, gave its consent to ratification. Ratification and accession will take place after the necessary legislative changes have been implemented, as proposed in Ot.prp. No 51. Proposals for legislative changes to the Working Time Act have been harmonised with the accession of EU countries through Directive 1999/63/EC. This Directive is based on the fact that Convention No. 180 will be done. The Government also proposes that a minor amendment be made to the Law of 9 June 1903 No. 7 on the Law of State Control of Ship's Merit. The Working Time Act applies today to employees on board Norwegian ships with a number of exceptions mentioned in Section 1 paragraph of the Act. 2nd@item: inlistbox ILO Convention No 180 provides for the regulation of working or rest periods for all seafarers on seagoing ships. The need for exemptions from the current statutory working time arrangements will be reduced by implementing the proposed changes. All employees on board Norwegian ships will now have a statutory rest period. The Government has proposed that seafarers’ rest periods be regulated instead of working hours. The law will provide shipping with a level playing field with other European countries. It is desirable that the Norwegian legislation be consistent with countries with which it is natural to compare. The shipping industry is an international and highly competitive industry, and the Government considers it important that the law governing working conditions is consistent with other countries. This applies in particular where the choice made for the law complies with Community law guidelines. Working and rest time is something quite different at sea than on land, because the worker is on the boat so to speak. A seafarer may not use leisure time to the same extent as a seafarer working on land. However, this is compensated for by the fact that seafarers have longer periods of freedom. In return, relatively more work is done during the period on board. Therefore, minimum rest periods are required on the basis of what is appropriate for the operation of ships, while working hours and pay terms are agreed between the parties. After the proposition was presented, it has been clarified that the law on working time and rest periods on ships can apply without the exceptions proposed in the Act on International Ship Register § 7, first paragraph. This implies the deletion of the proposed NIS Act § 7, third paragraph, first sentence. The first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 7 regulates the average total working time over a period of one year. This provision may be repealed as a natural consequence of the removal of the corresponding provisions of the Law on Working Time and Rest on Ships. I agree that the final sentence of Section 7 of the third paragraph of the NIS Act should be in its present form, so that the reference to ‘agreement’ remains. It would be unfortunate to introduce a provision which could result in no one working on board in practice without being covered by a collective agreement. But at the same time, I would like to stress that collective bargaining between organisations should continue to be the normal system for setting pay and working conditions. I take note that the Committee wants to treat fishermen's working and rest periods as a matter of its own, and the Government will, of course, come back to this in an appropriate way. Section 3 of the second paragraph of the last sentence is proposed to be reintroduced after it was accidentally repealed in connection with the previous amendment of the law on 20 December 1999. The amendment implemented Directive 98/25/EC on port State control. The Government's proposal is that the sentence, which is a basis for giving rules on control of, inter alia, devices in the petroleum industry are reintroduced into the law. Then, in the debate, there have been some characteristics of what has been going on and that are going on. It has been used as a "storm in a glass of water". I'm not going to go in and characterize the treatment. But I have no problem saying that this is not a glan number, and that obviously there are things that could have been done differently. On the other hand, it is absolutely certainly in my opinion that the majority of the committee who chooses to deal with it tonight is on reasonable grounds of certainty. And when Uppøen Hansen says that he has no real problem joining the directive itself, it should be a sufficient basis for doing so, after the correspondence that the committee has also had, and that a return should be superfluous, also given the deadlines that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e434	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e438	After the strong criticism that has come from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV in this matter around the department of their procedures in the preparation of a law case, I am surprised that the Council of State did not choose to comment more than what he did in his statement. But he's going to have a chance at now. When it comes to the ministry's procedures, I have a question for the Council of State: is it true that the ministry does not have discussions with the social partners in legal matters relating to employment? As the Council of State itself said, this case is not a'smooth number'. But does the Council of State still believe that the draft law is thoroughly addressed in the Ministry in the light of the objections raised by the organizations? And the last question: I want to ask the Council of State for this period, i.e. between the Government's transmission to Odelstinget and until it was issued by the Committee has ever considered making an additional proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e449	The representative, Oppebøen Hansen, is quite right in saying that I was not able to spend much of my time commenting on the criticism that the minority in the Stortinge here makes. When you have five minutes, it's limited what you can get time for. Then I'll be able to do it now. In the case of the general legislative procedure, there are standard procedures here. So also for this matter, it has been sent to 25-30 hearing bodies, who have been asked to comment on the changes proposed in the Working Time Act and the NIS Act. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs sent this out in a letter dated 7 June 2001. There have been a number of proposals for changes that can be considered as significant and whether or not one should have had a new round. As I said, it is obvious that in the overall proceedings in this case I recognise that it is not one of the gloss numbers. I believe that there is proper procedure, which provides the basis for the Storting's proceedings today. The additional information and the letters received, which have been answered by the Ministry after contact with relevant bodies, provide, in my opinion, a good basis for the Stortinge to make a decision today. So to the question of whether I have in this context considered promoting an additional proposition to Ot.prp. No 51. What I can say is that I've assessed Ot. pp. No 51, the en route recordings, the questions asked, the answers given and the receipt of the answers, as a sufficient basis for the Storting to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e458	Let me say about point C, which is getting multiples now tonight: when it comes to the distribution work imposed on the Council of State, it is known that there is dissatisfaction between the maritime organisations about belongings – including among the seafarers who are engaged on domestic voyages. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that he will be in good contact with the organisations involved in this work. So I would say that it is good that the Council of State acknowledges that his preparation of this case against Stortinget is not a glan number. I am surprised at those who stand on this pulpit today and say that creating unrest in relation to weak professional dishes is a storm in a glass of water. I'm taking away from the use of such an expression in this context. I also distance myself from pointing out – at least from the Progress Party – that the multiple has added up to a process that requires too much time. I would say that if we had had a more detailed dossier, it would also have been much easier for the committee to handle this quickly. I registered that state council now said about what will be agreed here today, that those who are behind the setting, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, can expect to be on a reasonably safe basis. I don't think that's good enough. I want to ask the State Council to confirm that he is going to set up a more thorough process the next time he submits a bill to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e467	As I said in the answer to a previous line, I'm not going to go into characterizing this storm or other storms. But it is a commonly known principle in this house that problems are made at least as big as they are. And I – with experience from this house – have probably been involved in a few cases where they have been made bigger than they really are. I do not overlook the fact that exaggerations may be present here. Here I'm not going to conclude, but I don't ignore the fact that one takes good care of characterizing the complexity of taking a stand on this, based on the basis given. I record that the majority of Storting believes that there is a sufficient basis. I find it very difficult to see that this is not the case. So on a question related to the Committee's recommendation under C, where the Government is asked to assess the working time of ships in relation to labour law and seafarer's deductions. In any case, I can say that the contact that can be made with all the relevant ones is to be made in such a way that when we are going to have new rounds on this, Mrs. Meltveit Kleppa will be able to say that here the Council of State has made a glan number as to pre-work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e474	I gave some reasons why I disagreed a little with the Council of State on this matter. That is why I thought I would limit myself to asking some very specific questions. The first is: does the Council agree with the representative of the government parties, Apelthun Sæle, that today's law can operate in a way that distorts competition with those against whom we compete? That's what's distorting. The second is, does the Council of State feel that the employee organisations are entitled or that they are wrong, when they believe that the changes to the law mean a deterioration in professional rights? The third question is: I registered that it was said by the council that he thought it would have been good if the collective agreement was really a general rule everywhere. Does the Council feel certain that the rights of those not organised in collective agreements will be equally strong or better with the new legal text compared to the old one? The next final question is: does the Council of State feel that he has managed to maintain good contact with the employee organisations in this matter? The last question is: the EEA Directive contained some minimum requirements in the extension of the ILO Convention. Does the Council of State consider that in cases where minimum requirements are imposed by EEA legislation, it is necessary to move away from Norwegian legislation and down towards minimum requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e489	In the light of all the questions, it struck me that I should have had the education of the two sitting in front of the president, namely the stenographers, to deal with everything. But I'm going to try. First, I would like to say that in terms of the SV's approach to shipping policy in general, there is probably no reason to hide that if you had followed SV's recommendations regarding shipping policy in general in the 1990s, this would probably not have been a relevant issue at all, because we had no seafarers to talk about. Indeed, the competition conditions of Norwegian companies compared to foreign competition are quite relevant. It is definitely such that overall conditions for Norwegian seafarers help to determine the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers, whether they are going to be on Norwegian ships, or whether it is going to be foreign seafarers who are taking more advantage. It's going to be more about pay terms than what we're talking about here. It is relevant to the overall competitive situation. You might think that's good or not, it's to the point of being uninteresting, but objectively, it's just like that. So to the question of whether I can believe in the employee organisations when they argue that this is a weakening of professional rights. I read what they have written in their letters, and have no reason to doubt their views and their special interests relating to this, in the same way that others have their interests in such a matter. So to the matter of the Council of State, it makes sense to have collective agreements and rights. Definitely! All business experience suggests that there is an advantage to a collective agreement between the employee and the employer and that there is an open relationship with regard to these things. But the question is, what are we going to do in the cases where you pick this away? Should we go in and regulate it in such a way that we should almost ban those who didn't have it? As for good contact with the organisations, I can only repeat what I said in relation to the reply from Meltveit Kleppa. There will be a contact that will be absolutely radiant, so that as I said it should be a glan number in terms of case preparation. But I will come back with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e502	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e505	The representative Heikki Holmås claimed in the customary offensive style that the signing, and also the Christian People's Party, I assume, throws on the boat – or overboard – all professional dishes if they can weaken the possibility of competing on an international market. It's of course the purest spray. Let me repeat, since the representative Holmås did not – clearly – hear that these directives are the result of a balance between conditions of competition and security, which is the most important thing, and the consideration of the working conditions for them to add. And the result is to live with all the areas that it's in. I don't know if Holmås has been a lot on board ships, but life on board a ship is different than it is ashore. This is not to be avoided, because the ship is not looking for an end at 0 p.m. 17 every afternoon. That's why repatriation and leisure time in a country are also extensive, as I said in my post. If my children had chosen to walk in their fathers' footsteps and were sailors, I would recommend that they take a roof when they were on board, and then they were free for longer periods. In fact, sailors have agreements. And Norwegian seafarers actually have agreements with good working conditions, and they are not deprived of any of these rights in this matter. Then I register that the Labour Party, which is voting against the EEA Directive, has no objection to the actual material content. It should be said that the content is actually acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e516	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[Footage, see page 481]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e532	Ot. pp. No 84, with proposals to amend the petroleum tax law § 3(b), first paragraph, third sentence, implies a geographical delimitation of this rule of law to the Finnish State and the municipalities of Kåfjord, Skjervøy, Nordreisa and Kvänangen in the state of Troms. This provision was adopted by Odelstinget in November 2001 and regulates fiscal framework conditions for new large scale LNG facilities. The background was current plans, such as the extraction of gas reserves in the Barents Sea, and the need to clarify depreciation rules in this respect. As a result of the fact that the extraction of natural gas with subsequent landing by pipeline and cooling in LNG facilities is a new and special form of gas extraction on Norwegian soil, a fiscal clarification of the framework conditions was needed. This is particularly true in relation to a demarcation between the petroleum tax regime and the land tax regime. In the context of this amendment, a sustainability assessment was carried out in relation to the EEA Agreement and the amendment was found to comply with the EEA Agreement’s State aid rules. The EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, has subsequently stated that the continuation of the current legal provision will lead to the opening of a formal investigation procedure, with a view to determining whether the applicable legal rule is incompatible with the provisions of the EEA Agreement on State aid. The Government’s assessment remains that the applicable rule of law is compatible with the provisions of the EEA Agreement on State aid. However, the Ministry considers it important for the sake of snow-white development that a decision be taken as soon as possible on this issue. A rapid clarification will be made difficult by the opening of formal investigation procedures. Such a postponement is not appropriate where, in any case, this may only have an impact on any future LNG-based project outside the scope of the EEA Agreement’s regional aid exemption rules. In particular, it must be assumed that in the northernmost areas of Norwegian continental shelf, where the distances to the market and existing infrastructure in the form of pipelines are greatest, it is appropriate in the present situation to develop gas fields based on cost-intensive LNG facilities. It is therefore assessed that such geographical demarcation should be made in order to ensure rapid clarification. To this end, a broad majority of the Committee proposes that such a geographical demarcation be legislated. I am very pleased that this matter now finds its final clarification. Snow White Development provides significant value for the local community in Hammerfest in Finnmark through the creation of a large number of jobs. The investments will be the largest in Northern Norway's history, estimated at DKK 35 billion. During the deployment phase, the project will require 25 000-30000 annual works. The operation of the installation will provide about 500 annual works. The local importance of the development of the Barents Sea is great. The expansion will also provide a great deal of value for the country. The expected tax intake is significant if the projects achieve their expected performance. The tax rate for these activities is 78 p.m. and after three years the results taxed will not be deducted from depreciation. If Snow White achieves expected profitability, total tax revenue to society is estimated at nearly 50 billion kroner. Thus, the alleged tax subsidy of the project is marginal in relation to the value creation of the Norwegian society. This type of large land-based LNG facility will be the first of its kind in Norway and Europe. By extension, technological competence in the Norwegian gas industry will take a long step further. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the text of Chapter 5 of the Proposition does not mention the economic and administrative consequences of the geographical narrowing of the legislative amendment in the proposition. This legislative amendment is not expected to have any administrative implications. This legislative amendment has been dealt with very quickly by the Financial Committee. The majority of the Committee, all outside the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, are behind the proposal. For the government fraction, it is gratifying that a broad cross-political majority in the Committee is behind and supporting framework conditions that open up a new chapter in Norwegian petroleum activities. I would therefore recommend that Mr Odelstingen join the committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e562	The decision re-examines the Act on Changes to the Petroleum Tax Act. The last time Stortingen dealt with this matter, it was made explicitly aware of two factors. The first was that under no circumstances was this case about the snow-white development. The second was that there was no mention of subsidies or State aid in any way. Now, however, Stortinget has got the Snow White case back, because the department has to change the tax subsidy scheme in order to get them accepted by ESA. We would like to point out that we already thought at the previous reading that this tax subsidy was not in line with the EEA Agreement, and we see today that we have got the right. The last time we dealt with this, this subsidy would be due to all LNG facilities located outside existing gas infrastructure in Norway. Then we could imagine new large LNG facilities – at Skagerrak, in Lofoten and in the Western Sea, even at Svalbard. Now we have a new reason. State aid has become a regional policy and is now limited to Svalbard’s action zone A for regional policy instruments, except that it does not apply to Svalbard. So now we can imagine new large LNG facilities in Finnmark, Kåfjord, Skjervøy, Nordreisa and Kvænangen. I think there is reason to draw attention to the fact that once this has become a district policy instrument, we also have to consider that ESA and others who are to assess the total amount of regional policy instruments for the region need to include this in their assessment of what is reasonable. In this way, I believe that there is every reason to fear that in the future this subsidy could be at the expense of others and certainly – in the eyes of SV – more important district policy instruments. SV has opposed this change in the Petroleum Tax Act, even regardless of the reason the Government makes up for it, because we have always believed that it has not been a general change, but a special change in order to develop a particular plant. It is opening up the Barents Sea to petroleum activities and it has environmental consequences in relation to the fisheries that are not explored. It is also something special to deal with this matter the day after the Storting Energy and Environment Committee gave the setting for a climate notification. This installation will emit 900000 tonnes of CO2. It is a little smaller than a fairly common gas power plant of the natural gas type. It is also a little strange that a majority in the Grand Duchy, who have struggled through an effort to find ways to reduce climate emissions, will go into this matter in order to subsidise the same climate emissions. It is such a pity that the Storting chooses to treat this as a matter of urgency. We would like to inform you that SV is going against the proposed changes in the petroleum tax case. I am also sure that the last words are hardly said, and that it is hardly the last time we are going to deal with the Snow White matter in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e579	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 485]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e593	The odelsting shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e600	During the debate, Øystein Hedstrøm, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, put forward two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e611	There is an alternative proposal here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the repeal of the Act on the acquisition of business§ 1 RepealLav 23 December 1994 nr. 79 on the acquisition of business will be abolished. § 2 The relationship with older concessions and conditionsCurrent, burdensome conditions and regulations previously laid down in decisions of the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Industry and Energy and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade under Law No 14 December 1917. 16 Chapter III, cf. cap. V, Law 31 May 1974 No. 19 and Law No 23 December 1994 Other conditions may be lifted by the Ministry on application.§ 3 Amendments to other lawsLaw 31 May 1974 no. 19 on the public concession and right of pre-emption by the acquisition of immovable property [[Concession Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e647	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law No 4 February 1977 4 Reworker protection and the working environment etc. II Law of 4 February 1977 No. 4 on the protection of workers and the working environment, etc. the following amendment shall be made:§ 73E the fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The new holder shall hold an information meeting with employees on the transfer of business and on the consequences for employees at the latest when the transfer of business is made public.IIThe law shall enter into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e679	Can the President repeat that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e686	The President shall do so. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e689	President! Could I have the floor for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e696	Åsa Elvik – explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e699	The majority of the members of the Committee who have the configuration will support proposal No. 2 subsidiary, so if it was possible to take up the vote on II before we take up proposal No. Two, that would ease the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e704	The setting for II is to be sent to Stortinget, so that it is not to be voted over here. There is a new vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e718	President! Can I make an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e725	Grethe Fossli – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e728	In the case of II, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are behind, and which is sent to Stortinget, we lose by voting in Stortinget. And in order for us not to remain without legal protection for employees when the acquisition law falls, we must vote in favour of proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e733	The President then understands that everyone is voting in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e743	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e753	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e775	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, II will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e781	During the debate, Anita Apelthun Seele has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e818	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e828	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e839	The President will draw attention to the fact that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the vote. To the Committee's position on B, there is a different proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Decisions to the amendments to the Law of 3 June 1977 No. 50 on working hours on ships, etc. Law No. II of 3 June 1977 50 on working time on ships the following changes are made:The title of the Act is replaced by the following:Law on working time and rest periods on ships.§ 1 is replaced by the following:§ 1. [[EEA adaptation]] Area of the Act.1. The law here applies with the exceptions listed below to the working time and rest periods of seafarers carrying out work in the service of the ship or otherwise on board or elsewhere under the overall directive.2. If a ship is operated jointly by several on their own account and some of them carry out work on board, these are considered seafarers. Seafarers are also considered to be self-employed contractors carrying out on-board work in connection with the operation of the company.3. The provisions of the Act do not apply to:3.1. master and chief mate not included in the ship's navigational watch,3.2. chief engineer officer not included in the ship's engine watch,3.3. based on a minimum of 3 subordinates or, if agreed between the organisations of the companies and the seafarers, a lower number,3.4. seafarers who are the head of a compartment on board with at least 3 subordinates and whose service is not divided into guards.3.5. the accounting officer may perform work in the service of the ship.§ 2 shall be replaced by the following:§ 2. [[Marine Law]] Definitions etc. For the purposes of this Act:1. hours of work: the time when seafarers carry out work for the ship;2. navigational watch: seafarers carrying out navigational watchkeeping in accordance with the requirements of Chapter VIII of the STCW Convention and in it at all times the regulations on watchkeeping on ships prescribed by the Law of the Sea § 506,3.day: time from. 00:00 a.m. 24.00,4.fishing and catching vessels: vessels used for catching fish, whales, seals, seaweed or other living resources in the sea;5. rest time: time excluding working hours, excluding short breaks,6.domestic speed: inland navigation in Norway and speed on the Norwegian coast, excluding speed on Svalbard and Jan Mayen. If a ship on a part of a voyage is engaged outside domestic voyages, it is considered to be in foreign voyages throughout the voyage unless this is due to an emergency. Foreign voyage means all voyages outside domestic voyages.7.master-in-command: the chief engineer officer responsible for the mechanical propulsion of the ship and for the operation and maintenance of mechanical and electrical installations on board,8. engineer officer: seafarers constituting the watch in the machinery or a period of responsibility during which the physical presence of the watch person in the machinery space may or may not be required,9. navigator: officers qualified for the deck officer's certificate in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II of the STCW Convention,10.public holidays: public holidays, public holidays, public holidays and public holidays provided for herein. As with holidays, the time is calculated from 1:00 p.m. 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. 24.00 Easter evening, Pentecost evening, Christmas evening and New Year's Eve,11. chief mate: the deck officer next to the master who takes command of the ship if the master becomes unable to perform his duties,12. passenger ship: a ship to be certificated under the provisions of Law 9 June 1903 No. 7 on State control of the Ship's seaworthiness, etc.,13. company: owner of the ship or any other organisation or person, such as manager or bareboat charterer, who has assumed responsibility for the operation of the ship after the owner and who, by assuming such responsibility, has agreed to assume any associated duties and responsibilities,14.seafarers: persons appointed in any capacity on board ships under the law here,15.change arrangements: a working arrangement whereby the ship's seafarers serve on board for a specified period of time, in order to be wholly or partially relieved by other seafarers, and where seafarers can leave the ship,16.STCW Convention: International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers of 7 July 1978, as amended by 7 July 1995.17.tariff agreement: an agreement between a trade union and an employer or an association of employers on terms of employment or other employment,18.week: from Sunday to Sunday at 0:00 p.m.17. 24:0019.Watching arrangements: a working arrangement whereby the working time of the ship's crew is wholly or partly divided into watches and where the entire crew shall normally be on board. § 3 is replaced by the following: General working time.1. The normal working time shall be 8 hours a day, with one daily rest period per week and rest on public holidays.2. The first subparagraph shall not apply to the following ships:2.1. ships engaged on domestic voyages with shunting or vigilance arrangements,2.2. other ships of less than 300 gross tonnage, provided that the shipping company makes a written binding declaration to the Ministry to comply with the provisions of relevant collective agreements concluded between the employer and employee organisations for all crew members.2.3. by way of derogation, the total general working time during a period not exceeding 12 weeks, but not exceeding 56 hours a week on average, may be replaced by the following: Responsibilities of the company and the master.1. The company shall ensure that the master is able to comply with the obligations under the law here, including those relating to the appropriate manning of the ship.2. The master shall ensure that the provisions of the Law on Seafarers' Working and Rest are complied with. The master shall also ensure that a copy of the law here and the relevant collective agreements is on board and readily accessible to seafarers added to the ship. is being repealed.§6 is being repealed.§7 is replaced by the following:§7. Additional work due to security service.1. In addition to service under Section 3, masters may require seafarers to work as many hours as is necessary to directly ensure the safety of the ship, persons on board or cargo, or to provide assistance to other ships or persons in distress at sea.2. After the first subparagraph, the master may set aside the planned working arrangements or rest periods and require seafarers to work as many hours as necessary until the situation is normalised.3. In cases referred to in the first subparagraph, as soon as practicable after normalisation of the situation, the master shall ensure that seafarers who have carried out work during a specified period of rest are adequately rested.4. Seafarers’ obligations to participate in the enforcement of customs regulations and quarantine and other health provisions.5. Navigators may likewise be required to carry out the necessary work in connection with the determination of the ship's position by means of a watch release.§ 8 shall be repealed.§ 10 shall be deleted.§ 11 shall be replaced by the following: Limitation of night work for young people.Youth under the age of 18 must not work between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. 08.00 to the extent that he/she receives at least 9 hours of continuous free time during that period. However, this does not apply to the work referred to in the first and second paragraphs of Section 7. § 12 shall be replaced by the following: Rest period.1. The rest period shall be at least:1.1. 10 hours during any 24 hour period, and1.2. 77 hours during any period of 168 hours.2. The rest period may be divided into two periods, one of which shall be at least six hours long, and the interval between consecutive rest periods shall not exceed 14 hours.3. For seafarers in watch regimes, the provisions of the first and second subparagraphs need not be complied with in the event of an emergency or work arising from an exercise or other overall operating conditions.4. Musters, fire and lifeboat drills, and other exercises prescribed by law or by law, shall be carried out in a manner which minimises disturbance of rest periods and does not cause fatigue.5. When seafarers have been on standby, they shall have a satisfactory rest period in compensation for the period of rest lost. § 13 is replaced by the following:§ 13. Registration form 1. All seafarers shall be provided with a registration form which shall be completed as soon as possible.2. Provision and maintenance of the working and rest schedule are provided by the Ministry. Anyone who can demonstrate that it has a legal interest in him shall have access to know the content of the registration forms and to obtain a printout of those parts of those relevant to him.3. Seafarers shall receive copies of the records relating to them signed by the master or the master authorised by the master.4. Registration forms shall be kept by the company for at least 3 years after they have been completed. If a case has been brought before the court concerning a claim for payment for work which is, or is alleged to have been, included in the forms, the forms shall be retained beyond 3 years until the case is finally settled.5. If, in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Section 1 of this Act, provision has been made for the arrangement and keeping of the registration form, the second sentence of the second subparagraph of this paragraph, the third subparagraph and the fourth subparagraph are applied accordingly. § 15 is repealed. Monitoring compliance with the law.1. The Ministry supervises compliance with the provisions of this Act. The king may lay down rules on the conduct of supervision.2. If verification of the registration form or any other condition indicates a breach of the provisions on working and rest periods in Sections 3 and 12 of the Act herein, the Ministry shall require action to the extent deemed necessary to avoid future infringements, including revision of the ship's crew.§ 16 shall be replaced by:§ 16. Derogation from the law.1. The provisions of the first and second subparagraphs of Section 12 may be waived to the detriment of seafarers if the derogation is made in a binding collective agreement. Such derogations shall, as far as possible, comply with the established standards but may take into account more frequent or longer leisure periods or compensation periods for seafarers working on ships on short sea voyages.2. For seafarers included in a navigational or engineering watch, a derogation from the collective bargaining agreement from the provisions of the first paragraph of Section 12 shall be limited to at least 6 consecutive hours provided that no such reduction extends beyond 48 hours and that the rest period is at least 70 hours for each seven-day period.3. If there is no collective bargaining agreement or if the King finds that the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, in relation to the provisions of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 12, are not sufficient, the King may lay down rules to ensure that seafarers are adequately rested.4. The Ministry may, in exceptional cases and following the reasoned opinion of the shipowners’ and shipowners’ organisations concerned, derogate from the provisions of the first and second subparagraphs of Section 12 on passenger ships with shunting arrangements on domestic voyages, including laying down detailed conditions for the derogation.5. For smaller ships, the Ministry may permit derogations from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 3 where, in accordance with the conditions on board of each ship or type of ship, there are reasonable and necessary.6. For larger ships, the Ministry may also permit derogations from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 3 as part of testing schemes and in other specific cases.7. Before a derogation following the fifth or sixth subparagraphs is permitted, expert advice shall be sought under Section 17. Equal treatment on the basis of previous Council decisions on derogations from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 3 may be taken by the Ministry without the matter being referred to expert advice on a case-by-case basis.8. Derogation from the provisions of the second sentence of the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh subparagraphs of the paragraph here shall be limited in time.§ 18 shall be replaced by the following: Penalties.1. If the relationship is not affected by more stringent penalties, the penalty shall be:1.1. fines a general person who intentionally imposes any work in excess of that permitted by or in accordance with the law here, or infringes the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 4 or the 13th sentence or the provisions of Section 13 or the first paragraph of Section 15.1.2. with a fine or imprisonment of up to 6 months who intentionally fails to deliver or conduct, or makes an incorrect entry into, or makes illegible what has been entered into, a registration form, or destroys or thickens a registration form to be retained pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Section 13 of this Act.1.3 of this Act. as referred to in paragraph 1; 1 and 2 the person who has intentionally or negligently failed to seek to prevent an infringement referred to therein.2. Infringements referred to in this paragraph are perpetrators regardless of the size of the sentence. Law No. III of 12 June 1987 No. 48 concerning the Norwegian international ship register is amended as follows: § 7 is replaced by the following: Working time and rest period.Law 3 June 1977 nr. 50 on working time and rest periods on ships are valid for ships in this register.The normal working time on board shall not exceed 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week. 50 on working time and rest periods on ships § 12 may be waived by collective bargaining agreement if the derogation is approved by the Ministry.IIILova debt from the time the King is fixed.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e1316	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Here the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e1330	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e1341	C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e1372	The Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e1385	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e1399	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2245e1410	There is no record.
