ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e28	The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e31	It is a proposal from me that no amendments to current fisheries laws are being taken into account until the Stortinget has received an evaluation report on the impact of the significant legislative changes that were made during the previous enlargement period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e36	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e39	On behalf of Inger Enger and myself, I would like to make proposals on minimum requirements for the filling of warehouses in hydropower plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e44	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e66	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Valverd Reply City Haugland State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Ingjerd Schou The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e85	I have a question for our honourable Minister of Agriculture. At a 25th anniversary at Kalne's agricultural school, the Council of State issued very remarkable opinions on Norwegian agriculture. He said that farmers are ‘become political beings’ who ‘have become entrenched’. And then again, the whole cooperative mindset is the Taliban. These are very perceptive opinions against Norwegian agricultural policy and the Norwegian peasantry. So what has the Council of State done to change the cooperative during the reign of the Tripartite Government? Indeed, the cooperative still has its regulatory privileges and is exempt from competition law, so that Kari and Ola have to pay more for Norwegian food. When the Council of State says that the cooperation is the Taliban, does it not mean – when he has not done anything to change this that matters in practice – that the policy he stands for is a Taliban policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e92	It was violent. I can confirm that it's been 25 years since I left Kalne's agricultural school, and in that context, where I met my former fellow students, I reflected around some of the accusations and statements that have been made to me as a politician over the years. It was then that a newspaper had turned up. I don't think we should put so much emphasis on this, just to say that in the situation we have had in Norwegian agriculture over time, where in some areas there has been a purely monopoly situation, where the Stortinget has asked for competition, several actors, the Government is working on this and getting it done. We see examples of this today, for example. in the milk sector, where there is work to achieve sensible and good competition – not because a person wants to make Tine worse, but competition actually makes it possible, for example: the milk sector and the major former monopolistic Tine are improving. In this way, we contribute to an embellishment in many areas of agriculture, which contributes to greater freedom for farmers to be self-employed, without breaking out the child with the bathing water, as it is also part of the proposal on agricultural policy. Because we need a strong political framework for agricultural policy in Norway, we need an opportunity to take care of an agricultural sector as far north as possible and with such small gardens spread over a huge area as we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e97	I would like to quote what the Council of State has said to Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad, i.e. the local authority: the agriculture ‘has been the whole of the Taliban in its inpoding of cooperatives’. And then, "When farmers want to do something, they call on the state." In addition, he says that there must be "something about the dairy farmers in this country", i.e. that each dairy farmer receives, on average, NOK 350,000 per year in subsidies. I agree with the Council of State that there must be a strong structural change in Norwegian agriculture, so that the remaining farmers can become robust, and meet the world of reality into the future. But when the Council of State says that Norwegian agriculture is the Taliban, does he not have to propose radical changes in agricultural policy in order to get away from the Taliban policy he represents?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e104	It was this – and the joy I shared with my fellow students – that what was learned about the market in Norwegian agriculture 25 years ago, and it was also true to me through five years of agricultural economics studies, was very limited. It was one country, one brand and one market. So what you needed to know about the market was the phone number of the major cooperatives. Besides that, you would learn the theory of production. There's probably been a good policy in a construction period, where we needed standard marks and rational production across the country, but that time is over. Agricultural products are now facing mature markets, markets requiring differentiated products, and this means that we need to change some of the market regimes. We're working on that. The majority itself has asked for competition in the dairy sector. We're working on that. We are recently looking up this issue today. Everyone knows that restoring competition in a market where it has been a monopoly is a very difficult job, but we're working on it. Similarly, we are trying to facilitate farmers to cooperate more and in various ways to build more differentiated agriculture on the supply side. The milk sector is the area facing the greatest changes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e111	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e114	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs. The government says it will fight poverty by targeting its policies against those who really need it. Yesterday, we read about the Bekkum family, which has a very disabled child. Like many other disabled people, this family is severely affected by the government's desire to impose strong restrictions on the possibility of deducting large costs of disease from the tax. The Bekkum family saves society annual costs because they don't want to send four-year-old Anders to the institution. So the government says they want to target their actions better. I have to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: what is the goal of measures that can turn the Bekkum family into debt slaves?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e123	The government has made a clear priority: the poorest first, and as far as I can see, there is also a broad welcome on the measures proposed in the poverty plan to lift the poor Government. It's an important job and an important effort the Bekkum family is doing. It is also the case that persons with a particularly serious or long-term illness, who have a tax burden that may be disproportionately burdensome, may continue to apply for a tax reduction or remission for cheap reasons. Refurbishment loans can also be applied for from the municipality or the Husbank for the conversion of housing. It is also the case that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, next autumn, will present a big message discussing housing policy, in particular issues raised by the representative Hanssen, which will be discussed. In particular, the government will monitor developments in this area and will also consider any effects and changes in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e133	I think the Social Minister has to answer the question she's getting. Targeting must mean that the Government has a very conscious policy when designing different schemes for different groups. Therefore, it must be thoughtful when the Government makes a proposal such as this. The Bekkum family hit as hard as it does. There must be a conscious thinking and strategy behind it. The new roof 2 scheme does not help the Bekkum family, and the measures in the poverty plan do not help the Bekkum family. The only new costs they receive as a result of the Government's proposals for the State budget are significant new ones. It may be that this is what the government wants to do, but the Minister of Social Affairs needs to have a reason why the Bekkum family is going to get all these new costs. We're talking about new costs of 420 000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e142	I have pointed out the arrangements and opportunities that the Bekkum family has, and do not repeat them. The government has made a clear priority, and that is that it is the poorest first. As far as I can see, it's actually a big uproar about it. Of course, we still want to have broad arrangements, but we also want to focus more on targeting and on individual solutions and tailoring. Instead of having the broad prob lems – as the representative pointed out – we have prioritised measures for the major consumers of healthcare, chroniclers and disabled people, who we know have large costs of illness and, as seen through it, are also covered by the costs that are not covered under the current self-interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e151	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e154	It's interesting to hear the Social Minister say it's those who have it hard, who have to pay for the poorest, because that's what's real. Many who are able today to care for or care for their own, or who themselves have a serious illness, have a special deduction on the tax on large costs of disease that they are now to be deducted from. So it can be said, as the Minister of Social Affairs said, that this can be applied for in particular. New bureaucratic arrangements are therefore needed to replace good social arrangements. This is just one of many very unsocial proposals in the government budget. It's quite encouraging to hear that it is said directly that these people who are actually able to care for their own, the family Bekkum included, are now going to have an extra strain, a burden that society has to bear on another team. That means that these nurturing people are likely to end up in an institution instead of being at home with their own family and being cared for by it. Does the Minister for Social Affairs really think this is a good social policy? Does not the Minister of Social Affairs see the profoundly unsocial nature of the proposal now presented by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e165	I repeat that the government has prioritised. We've given priority to the poorest first. We have wanted to target services and not necessarily have all the broad arrangements. I just want to mention that the 800,000 that are being issued today, cannot possibly be poor all of them. The choice is simple: should we give a little bit to everyone, or should we give more to those who need it the most? The government has chosen the last one. The Bekkum family is doing an important job. I have pointed to schemes that enable them to continue their work, and the Government will be committed to following developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e170	Britt Hildeng – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e173	It seems that it is reasonable for the Council of State to send a bill of 75 million. kr for sick people. But at the same time that the government tightens the taxes for the sick, they're going to raise the tax of 100 million. kr to those who receive private health insurance from their employer. As the Council of State knows, you only get health insurance if you're quite healthy. How can the Council of State defend using the tax system in such a way that on the one hand you take 75 million. kr from the sickest and at the same time is 100 million. kr for those who are healthy? Is this an expression of the government's social profile, and is this an expression of giving to the poorest?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e178	Increasing the peak tax rate on ordinary income may not be enough to give the most to the rich. The government has made a clear priority. It's the poorest first, and it can't possibly be that anyone who gets a free card today – I repeat it – is poor. The choice for us has been easy when we're also going to be willing to prioritize, to target, and to think about the individuals who have the most difficulty, how important it is to protect those who have the greatest costs. We know that about some chroniclers and disabled people, and we just want to make sure that it's those who get a new roof 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e183	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e186	The Council of State says that it will target the measures so that the poorest will come first. The problem is that some of the measures proposed by the Government in the case of excesses are also affecting those who are poor. By raising the prom from NOK 1 350 to NOK 1 850, you hit exactly the group that really has the least from before, right in the middle of the face. When the government talks about targeting the measures, I think you might be so honest to say that here we will save money. ‘targeting’ is another way of saying it, that fewer people will have access to the schemes, we will save money, and there are significant amounts that the Government has committed here. In this context, I would like to ask the Council of State: can we also expect this government to target measures such as cash support? Is it going to target measures such as child welfare? Is that really what we're going to see from this government, if it's going to catch up with what the Council of State is talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e193	The poorest first – that is the clear priority. The budget is tight, and it is tight to facilitate the creation and maintenance of jobs. Work is also the most important measure of creating a social profile. It is the most important measure to help the poor out of poverty. We see that the broad welfare systems are important in preventing poverty, but they are necessarily not the most important ones to help people out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e199	We move on to the next main question – Sigbjørn Molvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e202	I have a question for the Social Minister. Yesterday's newspaper not only mentioned Anders Bekkum, who has been mentioned, but also another reference: 'The rich hope in', 'Chooses themselves in tax-free dividends'. These two essays show with all possible clarity an image of a Difference Norway. Since the accession of the Government, the Minister for Social Affairs has had a high profile in combating poverty and has just presented St.meld. No 6 for 2002-2003, Action plan against poverty. After reading this big message, it is not possible to find any evidence that the government is concerned with balancing economic and social differences in our country. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: does the Government want to balance the economic and social differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e211	Work is the main way out of poverty, and the Government is focusing on measures to help more people get into work. The biggest differences in Norway are between those who are at work and those who are not at work. Helping more people manage themselves just through having their own work is the safest way to reduce the differences. The broad welfare systems are important. It is important to maintain cohesion, but despite the fact that we have had cohesion for many decades, it is still the case that we have poor people in this country. Then we have to be able to do both parts, both targeting and prioritizing, but also having cohesion in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e218	I thank you for the answer, but I did not realize that the stas council responded to what I asked for. When the picture shows that many of the richest are getting even richer, and many of those who are poor are now experiencing contractions that relate to both illness and work, these developments are on the wrong track. It's not true, as the Council of State says, that we've had cohesion for many years. Evolution has gone the other way. Does the Council of State think that such long-term, systematic and targeted efforts as the Government puts forward will succeed only by redistributing between those who are in need, without slowing down those from which rage?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e225	I think that the important thing is to focus on prioritizing those who need it the most, as well as continuing to focus on cohesion. The broad, good solutions are important, but we still see that someone falls outside. It requires priority. It requires individual solutions. It requires tailoring. Focusing on a tax profile in relation to the richest we have had, and we should still have, but it has not helped so that we do not have the poor today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e230	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e233	Based on the two questions that have been asked now, it is almost impossible to see that the government is both busy reducing poverty and smoothing out differences. When it comes to the poorest and the proposed plan, other parts of the budget clearly show that it is those who fall outside the labour market, those who have to go out of work, those who have to go out of work, those who have to go out of work, and those who have to pay for it themselves. The fact that the state council just referred to the family that was named, to schemes that are empty, tells us that instead she is busy actually contributing to more poor people. [[The President clubs.]] When the tax relief for over-measurement is greater than the plan of action for the poor...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e240	The government prioritizes the poorest first. I'll repeat it. When the representative Meltveit Kleppa says that we hit the unemployed, I would like to say that what the unemployed primarily need is work. She points out that we have a measure that allows us to look like we're taking one hand and giving the other. The important thing is that we have active measures, not passive measures, that we have targeted measures and not just the broad measures, that we have measures that capture the individual, and that we do not have passive benefits as far as possible. We strengthen the follow-up of the unemployed with 220 new annual works in Aetat. At the same time, we are demanding the unemployed. We evaluate labour market measures, and it turns out that time is the most critical factor for those who are unemployed. If you go out of work for too long, you're more likely to stay in the trap. The longer you go free, the harder it is to get to work. This is about targeting and prioritizing, and helping people out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e245	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e248	I would like to ask a follow-up question to Minister of Culture Svarstad Haugland, who is also head of the Christian People's Party. It is wrong, as the Minister for Social Affairs says, that the slogan for this government is 'the poorest first'. The first thing the government did in the budget last year was to remove this tax on dividends that now really have given those who have the most, a lot in their pockets. So the slogan of the Government is 'the richest first'. What must be the correct slogan for this budget is that it must be made more poor before we go into distribution. Because that's what happens to them in terms of restitution, in terms of excesses, and in terms of the redistribution profile that the Government has set up, where one takes from those who have little from before, so that they will be truly poor before they finally become worthy enough of this government to lift up. Is this Christian People's Party's partitioning policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e255	Now it's time for one to be careful about interfering with the disciplines of other government councils. That should also be respected by Mr Halvorsen. That being said, there is one thing we also need here in this country. It is that we have investors who can invest in Norwegian business, which can create safe jobs. Then it's important to both facilitate an active business and actually have people in this country who can invest in Norwegian business. Today, investment is actually going down. Secondly, the poorest people need the most are employers who can create safe jobs. Drawing an image of the wholeness of this budget as a fight against the poor is simply turning the whole thing upside down. We give priority to the poorest first. One of the ways in which we can give priority to them is to facilitate a business that is safe and that can also create jobs. These things must be viewed in a context. I would also like to remind you of the aberration message presented by the Bondevik I government. It did not contain any suggestions to take from the richest. But it's important to lift up those who have the worst. That's actually what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e265	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e268	Local cultural life has a lot to say for children and the growing-up environment of young people. Theatre, music and dance enrich the lives of the community, the individual children and the young. In this context, cultural schools have made a lot of sense and have produced many talents within different genres that are actually leading practitioners in their fields today. At the same time, we know that many people are on the waiting list to join us, and it is reported that municipalities feel compelled to reduce their offers. Offers that would reach many, in a way, just become an exclusive offer. Often, there is close cooperation between the cultural schools and the other cultural life in the municipality, such as corps and choirs. Now I know that the cultural schools are not directly under the responsibility of the Minister of Culture. I know that. However, it affects most of the policy area for which the Council of State is responsible. [[The President clubs.]] My question is: does the Council of State worry that local cultural life is thus drained for resources and competences, and is it in line with the government's policy to make cultural schools something exclusive? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e275	The number of days shall be kept by all of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e278	It is quite right for the representative to say that when it comes to the spheres of culture, it is not my responsibility, nor was it the previous question. It's important that we have a rich cultural life. And of course, it's also true that the spheres of culture are an important factor in it. But to say that the cultural sphere is just an exclusive offering is, to say it mildly, quite brittle. We know that in many municipalities there are many who are on the waiting list and that they would like to have had a better supply. I am happy that the cultural spheres are legally established, and I also hope that the municipalities will give priority to them. Now we also know that in the budget we have submitted, unfortunately, the free resources of the municipalities were somewhat restricted because of decisions taken here in this Chamber, so they don't have as much free money as we could have liked, and so it might go beyond the spheres of culture. I hope they'll be able to screen them, and so the permissions of the cultural spheres are not the setting of the traps. What I would also like to mention when it comes to the cultural budget, otherwise, is that one of the priority tasks from my side, etc. has been supporting the various museums we have around Norway. It is also part of the collective cultural service that municipalities should provide to both children and young people. It has our priorities from my point of view, so that cultural life continues to flourish and grow around our municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e289	I thank you for your answer. I want to stop a little bit by this with the exclusive, that it's just for someone. In fact, the municipalities around do not have the opportunity to participate with more funds, because the municipal funds around are bottom-up. In the Austevoll municipality of Hordaland, there is actually a proposal to cut the entire cultural school in order to balance the budget. The rapporteur told me that we have so many challenges in school and care for the elderly that it's actually the cultural school this is going to go beyond. How does the Minister of Culture think to meet the negative developments that very many actors say affect the schools of culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e296	We are probably also watered down by the way that when first-time advisers come out with their draft budgets, there are some proposals that fortunately are agreed upon by the Cultural Government, the Government and the City Government around, and I hope that our local politicians will be awakened to the cultural sphere's value. But what I'm forced to add is that unfortunately, the free framework of the municipalities is being restricted in relation to what was the Government's intention in the municipal economic proposition. I won't repeat why it happened, but we know it's a tight budget. When one from Stortinget’s side puts more tasks in the municipalities, the framework for our local politicians becomes a priority within less. I'm sorry about that, but it's actually something that the Skjälaa has as much responsibility for – and perhaps as big – as the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e301	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e304	The budget presented by the Minister of Culture, Mr Haugland really represents a turning point in cultural policy. For the first time, the first page of the cultural budget states that this budget involves ‘in practice a lower level of activity at most cultural institutions’. So from a situation where, by Minister of Culture, the Minister of Culture has tried to develop cultural life in Norway, we have for the first time a budget leading to ‘a lower level of activity at most cultural institutions’. But not enough of that, it's the municipal budgets around the country that are mainly going to hit cultural life. The free frameworks are being restricted, not because of the kindergarten reform, but because the total municipal economy is as tight as the government imposes – probably in cooperation with the Progress Party. We made a change in the key, which gives a boost, but at the same time cuts the government in free-fund appropriations, in cultural buildings and in the development of cultural schools. My question is: does the Minister of Culture not see that the tight urban frameworks are affecting cultural life, affecting voluntary Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e311	I believe the representative is aware that the budget framework is tight, among other things. because the Storting had agreed to a budget increase of over $10 billion before we could start giving priority. And the Labour Party has actually voted in favour of about nine billion. They have taken a lead in budgetary work, which means that we cannot prioritize culture as high as we would have liked. I think one of the differences in this budget and the previous ones is that I've actually been honest. In the past, the cultural budget has also been cut, but it has not been included in the budget text. You can actually find such a cultural budget if you go back in time. What it has been important for me to give priority to is, among other things. the district museum, also to be involved and to facilitate the continued existence of a living cultural life and not to cut institutions, so that they can continue the activities they have today. Then I hope that we get better times in the years to come, and that culture will also enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e324	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e327	The question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. The government’s action plan against poverty does not help those who have the least. It has been made clear in this questioning process. And if one goes into the government budget, a policy is presented in which those who are poor, those who have the least, will pay the tax reliefs that those who have more, get. This increases the differences in society. Examples include removing the system of prescription medicines – i.e. increasing excess weight – for the elderly and the disabled. All the poor, as well as the rich, get a historical addition to the excess of drugs in general, and in addition a tax on temporary disability benefits is introduced. In addition, a number of cut suggestions are being made to make the situation worse for many. Then I have to ask: Robin Hood took from the rich and gave to the poor. Why does the government do the opposite, i.e. Hit the poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e335	From the post of the representative Kristoffersen I can understand it so that he wants everyone to be smeared thinly rather than targeted to those who really need it the most. We have made a clear priority: the poorest first – I repeat it – and I also see that there is a partial breakdown of the measures. We want more people to get to work, it is targeted, and they get to work faster, and we have promoted more measures in this area, including: earmarked places for labour market measures for long-term recipients of social assistance and young people under 25 years of age. When it comes to day money, I've been up to it on a previous question. The most important thing is to ensure that the long-term unemployed come to work. The representative, Kristoffersen, mentions the tax arrangement in relation to disability. I want to say that the system we have today is bad. Many disabled people are either out of work or locked up in a small job by the system, and disabled people who want to work beyond 20 pst. position, is actually experiencing a loss. I also thought that there was a broad dissension that work would pay off. And just that's too bad for a social welfare trap that the government wants to remove.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e344	I hear about target fixing, and I heard the representative Britt Hildeng on a previous question give an example of a tax tightening of 75 million. For the sickest, I'll give you 100 million. kr in tax relief for private insurers. This is a target fix that's perfectly clear. The question then arises: how can the Council of State today defend a tax system that thus affects the weakest and gives to a group that probably already has enough? Another suggestion that has been made by many people is that the government has removed the possibility of having an extra income for the disabled up to 1G, i.e. approx. 54,000 kroner, which for most people will be a good supplement to get a decent life. We know from surveys that just dissatisfied are those who have the weakest economy in society. We also think that this is a strange targeting, which we strongly react to. Why does the government do this? I also remember my first question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e351	There were several questions. I choose to start with the last one. It is important – and I also thought there was a great deal of consensus – that the work line should apply, that the workers should also be able to work as much as they like, and that it should actually pay off to work. The disability allowance compensates for a loss of working capacity and shall ensure income through social security first and labour income at the top. Then it won't pay to work. We need to reverse the negative development in which more and more people fall out of work and become permanent beneficiaries, but those who do not have the prospect of working capacity should, of course, have the security of non-employment benefits. In line with the Sandman Committee's preferences, the government has proposed new rules precisely for a combination of work and social security that ensure that it will also pay off for disadvantaged people to work more. It's necessary. We believe today's rules are too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e360	There will be follow-up questions – Gunn Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e363	The Council of State has now repeated on several occasions ‘the poorest first’. But that's not going to be right anymore for that reason. The poorest are first hit by the current draft budget. It's nice to bet 325 million. On a poverty level, it does not help to tear it apart bit by bit through the proposals that are now in the budget – many poverty-promoting proposals. The Minister of Social Affairs says, we agree with her, that work is one of the most important measures to combat poverty. How, then, can the Minister of Social Affairs defend the attacks on the day-to-day pay system, the social benefit period, the holiday allowance supplement, the waiting days and the qualification requirements for entering the labour market in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e370	We can defend that because the most important jobless person needs is work. The need for the unemployed is active – not passive. The government is just strengthening Aetat because you're going to work in a different way. We strengthen them with 220 new jobs, and at the same time we have made demands on the unemployed that you actually have to be a jobseeker. Time is important. The passive use of daily allowances for three years – we have learned that you can do so without contact with Aetat – is a much safer trap to actually stay unemployed. Then it is important to turn it around by saying: shorter time, more activity, more action and a much greater commitment both from the jobseeker and from the authorities to help, just to give the unemployed what he needs most, namely work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e375	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e378	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. The state of the Kingdom in TV 2 recently revealed with all clarity the counterpowers of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs against providing lifesaving treatment to young drug addicts. Subutex is a drug against opiates that has been authorised to be marketed in Norway since 1999 for treatment of individuals down to 15 years of age. However, the Ministry has created a so-called recruitment rule that does not allow general practitioners to prescribe the product Subutex without the patient taking part in a medicine-assisted measure. Under 25 years of age are excluded from such treatment under the legislation. In my opinion, the appeal rule has no medical justification, nor do I know any Western country that has similar restrictions on the use of Subutex for the treatment of drug addicts. I assume that the rule of appeal is based on a law and ask the Minister of Social Affairs to tell me what law this rule is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e387	First of all, I want to say that the Government is concerned about all the instruments that can save lives. We are committed to having a chain of actions that are linked and that allow us to provide help to those who need it. If it works, then we'll apply it. Here and now I can't tell you what the legal basis is. What I can say, is that the government a while ago has taken up today's rules, which were adopted by the Stoltenberg government, precisely because we wanted to review them, evaluate them, and possibly extend the criteria so that more people can get offers. The representative Alvheim points to the 25-year limit contained in today's rules. I want to say that it is actually also given the opportunity for a number of exceptions. I see there's over 20 in the so-called MARIO system here in the Oslo area that's under 25 years old. But as I said, we've taken this on board, and we're busy using the tools that can save lives and give dignity back to the individual, who can then be able to handle their lives better than what you do by being a heroin addict.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e396	I thank the Council of State for the answer, with which I can in no way be satisfied. The appeal rule, in addition to a series of circulars from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs, has resulted in no general practitioner/addictor dares to prescribe the Subutex drug to young drug addicts for fear of losing their medical license. A removal of the rule of requisition will equate the drug users with the other patient groups, and the decision-maker will be able to print Subutex and administer the treatment as they do in all other contexts. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be: Will the Minister of Social Affairs, together with the Minister of Health, consider removing the appeal rule to save the lives of as many young drug addicts as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e405	It is quite right, as the representative says, that the Ministry of Health is responsible for medically assisted rehabilitation, but I have the coordinating and overall responsibility. We're going to review the rules and also look at an extension of the criteria when the Social and Health Directorate is coming back this fall with a review. What is important in that review is that we look at a chain of measures and that the instruments we have are linked. Here is also what Mr Alvheim's representative has to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e411	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e414	Drug treatment may, in some cases, be important, but the main focus should, in our view, remain on drug-free treatment. The main problem, as we see it, in the care system today is that we do not have the ability to achieve a continuous treatment chain. Drug users have no guarantee of having an adapted treatment scheme when they have been through detoxification and investigation. There's crazy use of public money. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is therefore whether she feels that this is an acceptable situation, or whether she might consider setting up so-called waiting rooms that allow people who have been through detoxification and investigation to have concrete follow-up until an adapted treatment system is adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e421	No, I don't feel that today's situation is satisfactory – at all. This is why the Government has proposed to clear up the responsibilities and bring together the responsibilities of specialised health services, such as health care. The acute detoxification of drug users is, to health businesses. Drug abusers shall be guaranteed the same access to healthcare as everyone else, and healthcare for addicts shall be treated in the same way as other health services for both organisation and rights. The aim is to improve treatment provision. The loops in today's treatment system are deadly – people die. The important thing about reorganization and clarifying responsibility is to get this chain to hang together, that someone takes their hand when they go from one place to another.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e426	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e429	In his reply to John I. Alvheim, the Minister of Social Affairs said that evaluation and evaluation would be carried out on the criteria underlying the possibility of obtaining the medically assisted rehabilitation, such as: Subutex or buprenorphine, which is the active substance, is concerned. How long have you planned to spend on that evaluation? When can we expect this to change so that more people can get help and get under the scheme? If this goes over time, we're actually at risk of people dying while they're waiting to get into a system that's very important in order to have a reasonably normal lifestyle. So my question to the Minister for Social Affairs is, When can we expect to see the outcome of this evaluation and, if necessary, the changes to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e436	The assessment by the Social and Health Directorate now expects the Ministry of Health to receive during the autumn of this year. I would like to stress that there is no other government that has invested so much in precisely medically assisted rehabilitation as we have done, not only in the measures we have put in place this year, but also in the proposals we have made for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e443	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e446	My question also goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. There have been many questions about unsocial proposals in the state budget, and that also concerns what I am going to address. One of the many suggestions that are profoundly unsocial is that you should now get to grips with how much you can get for school and school when you go back to rehab. This means that many people who today have the opportunity to take courses that cost more than NOK 50000 will not have this opportunity in the future. What this means is that you save a couple of tens of millions of dollars to make a contraction in a system that's actually very successful. What this means is that many of those who are disabled and who are struggling to enter the labour market cannot get the courses that are adapted to their needs. This is the safest way to disapprove people – they are permanently out of the labour market. I've understood the government there that it's busy preventing people from being disapproved, from getting people back to work. At least the government says it's been a priority task. Why, then, does the government do this, which is the safest way to put many of the disabled permanently out of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e455	The most important thing is to make sure that people get into work, that they can work, and that you have special arrangements. The Intention Agreement, which is an agreement between the parties and the State, is precisely designed to facilitate the availability of tools to work even if one is unable to deliver 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e460	With all due respect, this had nothing to do with my question. The point is that you have a system today where those who are disabled and are re-entering can get a course and a school in order to be able to be re-habilitated back to the labour market, either in the job you have had before, or in another job. This is a targeted, solid measure that actually avoids people being put out of the labour market, that people can get the opportunity to get back into the labour market, which I also assumed this Government was concerned about. In any case, many different documents say that this is a priority task for the Government. So you go all the way into these systems that actually work, which gives people the opportunity to come back. Now you put a roof on how much this school can cost. Many courses are more expensive than this. That makes sense, for many of these courses are expensive. It costs money to rehabilitate people back into the labour market. And why do you cut this to save a few tens of millions when the gain for society and the individual is infinite by having the opportunity to give more expensive direction than what the government is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e467	We have chosen to give priority to those who need it the most. We also want a change in relation to the fact that those who are going back to work will have a much more active follow-up from Aetat. There is also an assessment of the need for education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e473	There will be follow-up questions – Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e476	To the question and follow-up from Øystein Djupedal, it is just to say that the Minister of Social Affairs believes that it is the people who need it the most now to take action and who are now to be prioritised by Aetat. But those people who just require the kind of tailoring that they require a course that costs more than $50,000 or more than $100,000 in a race, are the very ones who need this most. This is, among other things, disabled persons. We had people in the municipal committee today who said that there are more successful people who want to go to work, but that the Council of State and the Government will now prevent getting out of work. In addition, Aetat today has only one third of the number of job vacancies and jobs they had the last time unemployment was as high as it is now, namely in 1997. Both SV and NHO actually agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e483	I'm not sure what the question was. The point of the Government with our action plan is just to help the poor. Those who live in poverty in a welfare society where the majority have a high standard of living often experience it as particularly stressful. In the poverty action plan, we have both labour market measures for those who are long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, we have labour market-oriented qualification specifically linked to and targeting immigrants, and we also have an extended social welfare right for single dependants. I can mention a number of such schemes. It is not the case today that you do not have the possibility of a course and qualification. The question is whether there should be a limit to the costs of additional active measures to ensure that they come into operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e490	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e493	The question raised by the representative, Mr Djupedal, has been raised by a number of large-scale representatives. We are now being called down by user organisations – Norway’s Handicap Association, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, etc. – where the review tone is clear and clear. The budget that has now been presented, all the measures that lie there, is socially grossly unfair. There's no way that poor people are put first. It is perceived as a budget that primarily creates poverty. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is: Has Norway's Handicap Federation completely misunderstood? Has the Joint Organisation of Disability Misunderstandings been completely misunderstood? Hasn't everyone who organizes the disabled, the poor in Norway, at all, understood the consequences of the budget? Is it really just the Social Minister who understands that this is a budget for the poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e500	No, in no way would I say that someone has misunderstood. Some believe that it is the broad general arrangements that help the most disadvantaged, but the government has chosen to give priority to targeting and the poorest first. Yes, the budget is tight just to facilitate the creation and maintenance of jobs. Work is the most important thing precisely to achieve a social profile. We have chosen active measures instead of passive measures, and we have chosen targeted measures instead of the broad schemes. I just want to mention that 800,000 have today received a free card in the case of medicines. For us, the choice has been simple. It is possible that the representative Hanssen believes that we should spread thinly rather than target precisely those I mention, who are disabled, who are chroniclers, and who we have prioritised through a roof 2 scheme to cover the special expenses they have for sickness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e507	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – to the last follow-up question for this main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e510	As late as February of this year, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee was not satisfied with the follow-up of the previous governments in relation to disability pension and professional reintroduction. It was noted that the individual did not have to be de-motivated as a result of missing tailors’ room, and it was stressed that users’ views and wishes had to be added to the emphasis when individual action plans are to be drawn up. Unfortunately, with the current take-offs, the motivation can just go down, and one doesn't get the possibility of the lack that was before. If the Minister of Social Affairs had received help from Valgerd Replystad Haugland if she had refreshed her memory from the previous government, she could have said that one of five strategies was a fairer tax system, with tax on the exchange of shares as a special measure [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e517	I am not sure what was the question, and I am not sure if the comment was for me either. In any case, however, the Equalisation Communication is a very good evidence of differences in living conditions in Norway, and it has therefore followed up measures to raise the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e522	Today's last main question is asked by Rolf Terje Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e525	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. A slogan for the Left has been: the Left does not promise gold, but green forests. We've seen that there won't be gold from the left, but now we also have to note that the party is no longer credible when they promise green forests. Forestry has long tradition in Norway and has been an important industry in large areas of the country. Having a good care of the forest is seen as an honor, both for the many little forest owners and for the big ones. I was basically a little optimistic about Left's old slogan on green forests when I read what the Minister of Agriculture said in his speech to the Left at the April meeting: ‘Forest use is in a completely new situation. Rarely has it been as quiet in the Norwegian forests as this winter.» How can the Minister of Agriculture defend such a cut – when he speaks in other forums about preserving the forest?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e540	We've never had more green forests and more standing cubic mass in Norway than what we have today. An important background for this has, among other things, has been the significant journey to the forest during the whole of the last century. Now we're in a situation where the economy of mowing forests is very bad, and that's why it's stopped. Prices are so bad that now it is almost only in the ‘indrefiletens’ in the best forest in the central areas. In this context, the Government has made a significant change in forest policy, that is right. And it is in favour of Norwegian forestry – obviously. We have improved the so-called forest tax system, which is not a charging scheme, but a compulsory provisioning system for individual foresters, so that some of the values he cuts out of his forest are used to plant and care for new forests. The significant improvements included in the budget mean that for a forest owner who hedges — and more forest owners should do — who uses the tax advantage scheme and who has full marginal tax, the state subsidy will reach a total of 75 pst. for the costs of planting and caring for new forests. But when the government has chosen to cut direct subsidies to forest culture and forest planting, it then has the consequence that those forest owners who do not cut but still want to plant new areas on which there has not been a survey forest or a black forest will no longer receive subsidies. We have come in a time change at the entrance of this century. The old forest thing, planting along the coast with spruce, is over. Forest travel and planting plans – we are now raining at it in the department – are now far on the way. Now it's time to get the economy and industry into the huge areas where we have forest production. There the government has made good efforts, which is in the budget, and which I actually expect will receive broad support, not least in the environmental movement, which says that now we may have used enough open landscape, peaches and other for research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e553	In the State budget, the Government proposes to remove the forest culture subsidy in its entirety — i.e. Sixty-three million. kr. The County Forest Manager Liv Marit Strupstad in Hedmark has gone out and lamented the cuts that are coming, saying that this is something you have to see in a hundred-year perspective. It reminds me a little bit about showing about Håvard Hedde, who had a forest of two pines, and where it is called in one of the last verses: "But when we're old and we're going to have our own, I'm going to climb down the other one, and then the forest is white." Is this what is going to be the Government's forestry policy? Or, what is the Government's long-term policy on sustainable forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e567	I ask the representative of Klungland to take a careful look at what we are actually proposing. For those who have forests and who cut the forest, it is a very good economy – with subsidies from the state through the forest tax system with tax advantages – in planting forests again, with, as I said, the highest marginal tax rate, up to 75 pst. grants, i.e., higher than ever. But it assumes that you have forest to mowing. For the huge forest area we have, where it's going to be mowed and replanted, we have a better system than ever. The areas where we don't have forest production, and where we had a wish and a policy for planting spruce throughout the last century, we see as traveling along the coast, a lot of it -- we've fulfilled the plans. That time is over. Now we need the open landscape we have along the coast, and we need what we have left of forest other than survey forest. It's the political shift, and it doesn't touch Håvard Hedde or anyone who had to chop a tree and who wants to have the economy to plant again after the tree has fallen. Because we have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e578	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e583	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed. Questions 4 and 5 from Knut Storberget and Gunn Karin Gjul, respectively, to the Minister of Justice, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen to the Minister for Health, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Health, has been withdrawn. Question 8, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health, who has been removed. At the request of the Social Minister, this question is moved and answered before question 14, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, by Mr Elvik, representative of the Minister for Fisheries, has been withdrawn. Questions 12 and 13 from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik and Siri Hall Arnøy, respectively, to the Minister of Labour and Administration, are moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, in response to question 23, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 15, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. Question 21, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 22, from the representative Sylvia Brustad to the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e614	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘In the context of its sustainability strategy, the government has announced that it will present a national Agenda 21 next autumn, i.e. Norway’s Action Plan for the follow-up to Agenda 21 of the Rio Conference, without clearly identifying the process set up by the Government. In what way will the Government ensure that key actors are involved in the process so that it becomes broad and inclusive in line with Agenda 21, and in what way will the Biggest deal with National Agenda 21?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e623	The Government will present Norway’s Action Plan for the implementation of the National Sustainable Development Strategy — the ‘National Agenda 21’ — in the autumn of 2003 in connection with the submission of the national budget for 2004. The government places emphasis on the action plan and has started work on the content and process of work. A State Secretary Committee composed of State Secretaries from the most concerned departments and the Office of the Prime Minister will be set up, with the participation of all government parties. The work is led by a State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance. An open and inclusive process is set up with non-governmental organisations and other stakeholders. The Government has provided that meetings are to be held with key actors on key themes of the Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e632	I thank you for the answer, which unfortunately does not contain any further new information in addition to what has happened in the past. I am concerned that we will now see another example of national familiy in relation to the follow-up to these important UN conferences. I would therefore like to hear a little more about how the Government sees it as including key, important actors covered by the Agenda 21 document, so that they are also held responsible for the follow-up when a national Agenda 21 is presented. A number of actors are mentioned in Agenda 21 – ranging from trade unions to business, research institutions and municipalities. How will the Government be included, activated and committed to these actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e639	I have answered the question that was asked, which process is being set up for Stortinget and non-governmental organisations. So the representative also asks another question: how to include other institutions, organisations, trade unions and the like in the follow-up to the plan that is then put forward. It will depend on what the plan contains, and it also has to be told by Stortinget. It will be dealt with next year by the national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e646	What I asked was related to the question. I would recommend to the Council of State to go further into and read what is stated in the Agenda 21 document and the chapters dealing with key actors, where the central actors are framed one by one. National Agenda 21 is intended to be a follow-up to the agenda agreed globally at the Rio Conference. This means that it must also be sewn over the same reading as was done at the Rio Conference. I want to repeat my question: How will the Government ensure that those actors are included, involved and committed to follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e653	The representative asks what the plan will contain. Of course, I cannot answer that, given that the work on the plan has not yet started. But it is in the fact that we include this plan, Agenda 21, and follow-up actions in the national budget, that we want to include the whole process of thinking, including economic policy. It is an approach that not least EN has been involved several times — not to put environmental issues on the side, but to be included in the overall policy. That is what we are discussing in the national budget. So the parties will be invited to participate and make their views known in the process. How they will then be obliged to follow-up, we will come back when the plan is in place. But all good suggestions are received with thanks, including during the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e661	I would like to ask the Minister for Church and Culture the following questions: «As one of Europe's oldest educational and research institutions and progresses to our universities, and as an inseparable part of the national cultural memory of Kongsberg Silverworks, the Bergseminar at Kongsberg is a building of great historical and antique value. When the Ministry of Defence is about to dispose of its properties, will the Council of State ensure that the building is transferred and remains state-owned, so that the Norsk Bergverksmuseum can manage and pass on the heritage as a living cultural memory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e670	The Bergseminar building on Kongsberg is a cultural memory of great symbolic, cultural historical and antiquarian value, which is also underlined by the questioner. When the defense no longer needs property, I see it as very important that he remains in state ownership, and if possible used for cultural purposes. The Ministry of Culture and the Church received on 16 September this year a letter from the Disposal Project in Defence Building about the disposal of the Bergseminar at Kongsberg. Defence buildings are planning to deliver the Bergseminar at a price, and a fare of about 7 million has been suggested later. kr. The Ministry of Culture and the Church answered Defence Buildings before the deadline expired on 7 October this year. In the letter of reply, the Ministry indicated that the Bergseminar is a culturally important building that should remain in the state's possession. This can be done by the Ministry of Defence transferring the Berg seminary to the Ministry of Culture and the Church, which provides the seminary building for the Norsk Bergverksmuseum. Today, the museum manages the state-owned cultural monument Kongsberg Silverworks. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has previously been informed that the disposal of the Berg seminary would take place free of charge. The budget for 2002 or the 2003 budget provides funds for the purchase of the building. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has all been in contact with Defence Building for further follow-up of the case. The Riksantikvaren, Norsk Bergverksmuseum and Kongsberg municipality will also be connected. I myself would like to contact the Minister of Defence to discuss the issue of disposal with her.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e679	The council says that this is an important cultural memory, and that it is right that the Norwegian Mining Museum should have the buildings. I take it for granted that the department, as we here on the Stortinget, has been notified that the deadline for disposal was 7 October. Why has the Ministry so sold and not applied to the Ministry of Defence for the disposal of the property by the deadline of 7 October?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e684	As I said in my reply to the representative, we have actually sent a letter of reply indicating that the department also believes that this is an important building. As there was something else premise in relation to our perception of disposal claims, we need to have a new round. But I hope that we can get out of this in a way that will keep the building for the purpose that the representative also wants it to be preserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e689	What I and several fears, and on which we do not feel safe, is that this building ends up in the open market and is sold to the maximum bidder. None of us want to see pizza clips on the outside of that kind of barley. We know that the Norwegian Mining Museum needs more space, storage and communication facilities, which they do not have today. The alternative to this is a new building, which they themselves estimate will have a cost of between 10 and 20 million. kr. Is there any reason, then, to let the Norwegian Mining Museum and others go in doubt about what is actually going to happen? Can the Minister of Culture guarantee that this building will be transferred? And will the Ministry of Culture acknowledge and assume administrative responsibility for this very important building of cultural history?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e696	As I tried to answer in my previous post, some of the provisions to dispose of the building were changed, and the funds that were then charged to us are not in the budget for 2002, nor for 2003. That's why we have to do some new rounds. I have the same goal in relation to this building, and I hope we'll close with the process that we're now in. At least that's my goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e707	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e710	I have a question for the Minister of Justice who will be answered by the Council of State Sponheim: ‘According to the Agderpost on 12 October this year, two car thieves from Lithuania received a reduced penalty in Sand District Court because they cannot speak Norwegian. In another case, a person in Arendal gets free to zone in prison for pro-mille driving and halved fine because he's an immigrant. The reason should be that it would be particularly tough for him to pay the penalty because he is a foreigner. For most people, this seems completely incomprehensible and can provoke racism. Will the Council of State do anything to stop such discrimination against the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e719	Neither the Minister of Justice nor I, on behalf of the Minister of Justice, can give an assessment of the criminal evaluation in the two cases on which the representative is based his question. The courts constitute an independent State power in which the Minister of Justice must take note of the facts on which the courts attach importance in the determination of the criminal proceedings. On a more general basis, I would like to add: once the court has found that a person has committed a criminal offence, it shall measure punishment within the limits of the law. The Penal Code mentions some general issues that are punishable or punishable. Otherwise, the principles of punishment are not laid down in the law, but have been developed through case-law over time. The central features of the criminal investigation are the gravity of the action and the degree of guilt that has been committed. In addition, there may be aggravating or mitigating circumstances outside the action itself. Such a mitigating circumstance may be that prison sentences will be particularly severe, for example: due to old age, illness or other conditions. As a matter of fact, I mention that in both of the two cases referred to by the representative Andersen, the criminal evaluation is justified in an overall assessment, where both aggravating and mitigating factors are emphasised. In the case of pro-mille driving, the court saw that the pro-mille driving took place in the centre, while the special conditions of life, that he was unemployed and the fact that he was driving moped, moved towards a lower penalty. In the case of the theft, it was pointed out that – and I quote from the judgments: ‘The Court considers that strict action must be taken against such infringements. [[...]] Reference is made to the continuing experience of various districts of this type committed by young foreign perpetrators in Norway for a short time. This reinforces the need for general preventive signals.’» This is reflected in the criminal evaluation. The two previously unpunished perpetrators were both sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for six months. In the mitigating direction, it was stressed that the settlement would be a stronger burden for the two defendants than it would have been in many other cases. It is a long tradition for us to know the criminal framework and to have legal rules on the considerations to be taken into account in the criminal investigation. In this way, the court can determine the most reasonable, appropriate and fair penalties in each case. Ultimately, it is for the Supreme Court to issue directives on the considerations to be taken into account in different types of cases. That's how it should still be at my discretion, and I trust that the courts are conscious of their responsibility. I have noticed that Supreme Justice Tore Schei in the evening post on 18 October calls on the prosecution and the defenders to appeal against several judgments before the Supreme Court, so that our Supreme Court can give secondary courts clear signals as to what is the right punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e735	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not all the world to boast of, as I perceived it. Let me first say that there are many good reasons to react when it seems to have developed a case-law where foreigners are proven to receive less punishment than the North for the same type of crime. So here we have two concrete issues from Agder, which both point towards immigrants and foreigners getting away with less crime than the Nordics would do for the same type of crime. In these cases, it has been presented as if the lack of Norwegian knowledge of foreigners, and the fact that it is worse for foreigners than for Norwegians to face punishment in Norwegian prisons, should be mitigating circumstances that should provide lower penalties. The government must then fully realise that the negative effect such discrimination can have on the attitude of the North towards immigrants is very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e742	Let me first underline what was a key point for me in my answer, namely that in our country we have independent courts. They make their own assessments. This does not mean that they live in a vacuum and do not join the social debate and capture some of the general legal opinion that may be in the Norwegian people, but they are not under the direction of the Government on these issues – fortunately. And I want to strongly defend that we have such a society. Having said that, I would like to stress what I said in my reply, namely that in these two specific judgments there have just been arguments that draw in both directions, both in a criminal and in a mitigating direction. And I made it clear that precisely in the case of these car thieves that are mentioned here, the ratio is that there are young, foreign doers – and we have a little too many cases of – who are just doing such raids. And the need for society has been to set up some examples and give some general preventive signals, as it says in the preambles, is exactly the opposite of the statements made by the representative here. So I have full confidence that the courts will manage their task in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e749	I notice, of course, the statements of the Council of State. But let me also remind you of the fact that criminal foreigners in Norway are largely laughing at the naive attitude of Norwegian authorities and lack of strength in terms of turning down objectively and hard on all types of criminal behaviour. Unfortunately, Norway is seen as a paradise where crime is easy to commit, and organised foreign criminal environments consider it very attractive to be able to operate within Norwegian borders. Crime by foreigners in Norway has now gone one way — straight to heaven. So the Norwegian legal system corresponds to discounting criminal foreigners just because they can't speak Norwegian, or because it's a shame on them because they're foreigners and they have to sit in prison. This is completely incomprehensible to the Progress Party, and it is incredibly clumsy. It's naive, and it's completely hopeless legal conditions we're facing here. I therefore hope that we now and for the future release more such strange decisions in the judicial system where immigrants seem to get lower penalties than the Nordics, as we have examples in these two cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e754	The President assumes that the term 'clumsy seat' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e757	I cannot support the claims made by the representative here. I am absolutely convinced that the situation is that Norwegian courts are dealing with those they have up to trial, in a proper manner, based on the law that they are set to deal with, and that has been passed here in the Chamber. If I'm going to make an evaluation, I'll quote the Minister of Justice I'm delighted to be allowed to speak on behalf of today. He has said that "a bastard is a bitch, no matter what the color of the skin" or nationality. I think that also applies to a cellar ring. They shall be subject to the same law when they are to be judged in Norway. I have every reason to believe that that idea is at the root when the courts use the law through their independent treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e764	Those were fresh terms. I assume that the Minutes show that these were quotations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e799	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e813	This question has been withdrawn. Question 8 will be answered later in this questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e821	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Through the media and enquiries, I have been made aware of the Government’s practice in the context of sterilisation of children living with gay/lesbian parents. We know that parental killers who have been together throughout pregnancy and who have experienced the amazing moment of seeing their child being born are denied a step-child adoption on the grounds that they are not closely related to the child. Is it the will of the Council of State that children be deprived of legal rights, and what will she do to clean up?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e830	The adoption law has recently been amended and now gives access to one partner in a registered partnership with the consent of the other to adopt his or her child, a step-child adoption. The amendment entered into force on 1 January 2002. The purpose of the amendment was precisely to provide children living with one of their parents and their registered partner in a stable family relationship with the legal security of a step-child adoption. According to the previous law, this access only applied to children in marriage. Access to the step-child adoption in registered partnerships applies to both the parent’s biological child and the adopted child, unless the adopted child is adopted by a foreign country that does not allow such adoption. The representative Karita Bekkemelme Orheim asks questions about the government's practice of stebarn adoption of children living with gay parents. In general, I would like to point out that in the preparatory work for the provision, it was assumed that the strict criteria for granting a marriage grant for a step-child adoption would also apply to a step-child adoption in a registered partnership. Since the change in the law is a new date, there is no definitive and clear practice in the cases. The Ministry of Children, Youth and Family Administration has been informed that the department has dealt with and rejected five cases concerning applications from registered partners where the child is very young. The cases have been filed and are now being dealt with in the department. I stress that each case should be dealt with and assessed separately, and I cannot now pre-empt the outcome of these individual cases. The statistics from the SSB show that in 2001 a total of 908 adoptions were carried out by 165 stebarn adoptions. They were 18 pst. of the total number of adoptions this year. There may be a lot of reasons why stebarn adoption is applied for, and that matters can appear to be very complex. One application may be justified by the death of one of the child’s parents. In other cases, the question may arise where the child has a stepparent after a divorce or a breakup between the child’s parents. There may in some cases be strong conflicts between the child’s biological parents that are the root cause of the application, e.g.: where the application appears to be an extension of a conflict of children's distribution or association. Since adoption is very invasive, it is particularly important that the adoption authorities carry out a thorough and concrete examination of each individual application. The parties must be given the opportunity to think carefully through the effects of an adoption and whether adoption will be in the best interests of the child. It is of great importance to clarify how well-considered and justified the application for adoption and any statements by biological parents and the child are. The adoption authorities must pay great attention to getting the matter informed as well as possible. It is therefore important that judgement is further clarified in the guidelines. Notwithstanding that amendment, the Ministry has carried out an overall assessment of the adoption process. The rules of procedure governing the examination of the application for adoption have been further examined. New guidelines will be available with the very first. They will deal with the proceedings in both domestic and foreign adoptions. The new guidelines will also include the exercise of discretion by national adoption, including: will explain the factors to be taken into account in the examination of the application for a step-child adoption. The specific situation in which the child was born by a mother who already lives in a registered partnership will also be addressed in the guidelines. The handling of complaints pending in the Ministry will be carried out in accordance with the new guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e845	Then I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to start by saying that I fully agree with what the Council of State emphasises, namely that we should have both a thorough and a concrete examination of each individual application. Now it's like there's been some media focus on many of these issues. It has made a strong impression on several of us. Without spending time here today on specific individual matters, we know that it is now almost a year since the Stortinget made its clear decision that children who live with gay parents should have the same legal and economic framework as children who grow up with heterophilic parents. We've been waiting for months now. In the past, the Council of State – I think it was this summer – said that the regulations would be clear in a few weeks. Therefore, I would like to ask: Why have the regulations not come into place? Is the reason why the Christian People's Party or Government is opposed to the decision taken by the Stortinget? Or are there concrete problems with the preparation of regulations in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e854	One of the reasons why it takes time to develop new guidelines is that this work is quite extensive and that these guidelines are much more comprehensive. The guidelines we have today for sterilisation are – to put it that way – not that long. This is an extensive work on the basis of which we would also have covered the guidelines and the exercise of discretion based on the practices that have been followed up to now in all kinds of adoption cases — domestic, foreign and also in the case of sterilisation. In addition, we have wanted to see this in the context of the new procedural legislation, which has also called for a comprehensive review, as the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim knows from his role as Council of State. Both she and I have been in contact with the Control and Constitutional Committee, so we have tried to see this in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e861	This is in many ways a piece of new crime work. But we also know that this is a very sensitive question for those who are up in the situation. Although there are not long investigations in the department about this, I believe it is important that we get action behind the decisions taken by Stortinget, and that it is – I want to use the expression – almost scandalous that in such sensitive cases we cannot get the guidelines in place, so that there is peace and security for those who are applying for the stebarn adoption. Part of the reason given is that one of the parents has not had a close enough relationship with his or her child. But when you have followed the entire pregnancy, and you have been present in the child's life for several years, it's hard to understand that this should not be close to the child. I understand that in many cases it may be difficult to draw up regulations, but I hope that in this specific case we can get the guidelines in place immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e868	The guidelines will be here in a short time. I would like to remind you that of course we have the current guidelines today. The law in Stortinget applied to those who had not previously been able to adopt their stepchild, not the law as such. What is stated in the odelstningsproposition is that the rules that we have still have to apply – so we have rules to the extent that we have rules today. So at the same time, we've created new guidelines that are actually much more exhaustive, even in terms of the discretionary exercise of all kinds of adoptions, including stebarn adoption. It has been done precisely to ensure the necessary safety, but also to ensure that the children concerned are adopted in all contexts in a safe and sound manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e878	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «Previously in the autumn, the first country-wide study on sexual harassment among Swedish 17-year-olds at secondary school was published in Sweden. The report from the Swedish Institute of Labour shows that seven out of ten girls in 17 years experience sexual harassment. No similar study exists in Norway. Will the Council of State take the initiative to have similar monitoring carried out in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e887	Work against sexual exploitation and sexual harassment of children and young people is important, and we are working on this on many levels. The curriculum affects the subject in various ways within several disciplines, and the school is working on this as part of its work on the learning and learning environment. Similarly, the Learning Centre is continuing its work in this field. In the next year's letter of assignment to the Learning Centre, we have specifically asked that the theme of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and young people be included in the work of a better learning and learning environment. Of the specific measures that have been taken, I can, among other things: mention the projects ‘Values in school life’ and the value project ‘shall not —’, both of which address values, attitudes and interaction between people. In Norway, as far as I am aware, there have been no similar country-wide studies on sexual harassment, as the representative of the Lightbakken points out in his question. But researcher Svein Mossige at NOVA has done an investigation of Oslo youth attitudes to sexual abuse and assault. In NOVA Report 16:2001 he explains this survey of 710 young people aged 18-20 years. Here it turns out to be approx. 30 pst. by the girls say they've been exposed to sexual acts that they don't want. However, this is more than harassment – covering everything from rape to more diffuse acts. On the basis of further reporting in the field, I will assess the need for further investigations in our country, such as the representative Lightbakken addresses their question. In addition, I will pass the question on to the Network and Resource Group in the fight against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse against children. It is a working group at the State Secretary level and is chaired by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e905	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State will take this into account. The figures the Council of State refers to are dramatic numbers, and unfortunately there is little reason to believe that the figures we would get in Norway would be especially different from those we have in Sweden. The bigger reason would be to get such numbers, to get more focus on the issue. Professor Ewa Menckel, who conducted this study in Sweden, spoke to the Class Struggle on 10 August this year about the consequences of the figures revealed: ‘– Many people experience depression, stomach problems, headaches, anxiety, low self-esteem and lower hopes for the future. Many don't dare to go to school. In the long term, this may also lead to a lack of further education after high school,...» These are consequences that are dramatic, including for society. I wonder if the Council of State can say anything more about the measures you might expect to take in relation to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e919	It is important that we now examine more closely what needs we have in order to identify the situation and, if necessary, improve it. But I can quote from the Norwegian report I referred to, where it is said that you might be able to draw two implications of the results you obtained: ‘(1) Acceptance of attitudes to child sex and rape was associated with a relatively small connection to qualities of care, kindness, tenderness and understanding for others.’ It is also said that bringing young boys and men into functions in society where they can act in accordance with these concepts can therefore be important and meaningful in the long term. And it goes on to say: ‘2) Some boys express less disagreement with attitudes implying that the responsibility for controlling the sexuality of the boy is placed on the female partner and that sexuality is little influenced by reciprocity. This shows that it is important for boys to be involved in conversations about what are desirable forms of mutual, sexual activity between young people.’ This might give some indication of how we should work. Of course, this work may happen in school, but of course it must also be done at many other levels in society, including in the private sphere.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e936	I agree with these assessments. In addition, I can mention that the same Professor Menckel has also done a study of what kind of action students in Sweden would like. The things that are mentioned most are that they want more information about sexual harassment and the consequences of it, at school. They want to have organized discussions about it and clear school rules for what you can and can't say. I would like to have the Council of State's assessments of the kind of action, whether this is something she would like to address in this discussion, and also what kind of time perspective she sees in relation to when we might be able to get such a survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e943	Immediately, I think it sounds like there is a lot of wisdom in what the representative Lighthouse here says. I guess we know more and more about how important it is to management in school, leadership in class, clear adult roles, having good behavior rules, debating these rules, so that you understand why you have them, and possibly having an apparatus for penalties. I think there's a lot here, and I can say that we're doing a lot within this field that will also have implications for what we're talking about right now. I do not dare here and now provide a time frame for any new studies. I may have to come back to that. The value and work done in the school in terms of management is a continuous work that has recently increased the weight of the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e950	So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e957	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e960	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs, who answers it instead of the Minister of Health: ‘The Court of Auditors has strongly criticised the follow-up to the Psychiatric Plan in the Ministry. It is documented that psychiatric outpatients only treat from 0.8 to 1.4 patients per year. day, and waiting lists only increase. Will the Council of State now impose greater professional activity on enterprises in the outpatient psychiatric clinics?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e969	The national audit has highlighted weaknesses in the department's planning requirements for county municipalities. However, whether or not the department should have more detailed planning work in the county municipalities is a multi-page issue. Over many years, there have been signals from Stortinget that the State should not override the municipal sector. The Ministry chose to meet with the county councils in order to reach an agreement on which development projects should be implemented. The county councils have also received written feedback on the plans that have been detailed. This has been time consuming because the plans were different. Action to strengthen the service has been taken in parallel with the planning process. Statistics show that mental health protection activities for both adults, children and young people have increased as resources have increased. The number of new referrals to mental health protection has increased significantly in recent years, while the treatment activity has kept pace with the influx of new patients. The central unit is not the number of waiting lists, but the actual waiting time for treatment. The productivity of mental health protection in the paediatric population has increased from 1.2 to 1.4 interventions per year. annual work per year a day from 1998 to 2001, an increase of about 17 pst. In the service for adults, the number of institutional stays per year is higher. annual work increased by approx. 10 pst. It must also be said that a lot of work is done in outpatient clinics, which are not automatically registered as consultations. However, productivity appears to be low both in outpatient clinics for children/youth and adults. This has also been documented in several reports earlier. As part of the work on the escalation plan, we have introduced new tools to improve this. These include: develop a manual on the organisation and working arrangements of outpatient clinics and work has been undertaken by the Ministry on the review of the outpatient reimbursement system with a view to facilitating better resource use and increased productivity. This shows that efforts are being made to strengthen the provision of services in the field of mental health protection and that some of the presentations of mental health protection that have been promoted in the public sphere do not give an overall picture of developments in recent years. That being said, the challenges are still great. It is a dilemma that productivity is still too low at outpatient clinics. The hospital reform is based on a clearer governance of the specialist healthcare service. Clear demands have already been made for improvements on this point in the 2002 governance papers for regional health enterprises. This shall be further followed up in 2003 with clear performance requirements for a marked productivity increase in outpatient clinics, as also announced in St. pp. No 1st@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e980	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The national audit confirms what many of us have said for a long time, namely that maps and terrain within the psychiatry plan do not match. It is incomprehensible to me that the department will spend a whole two years approving the psychiatry plans for the municipalities and county municipalities, and that until today the department has not been able to obtain the full and complete overview of the situation in the psychiatry. It's a fact, despite the fact that we've had an escalation plan in psychiatry that's been going on for years. Does the Minister of Social Affairs think that the situation description of the psychiatry in the state budget proposition is correct and adequate for the situation experienced by psychiatric patients today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e989	First of all, I would like to stress that the Riksrevision has not expressed strong criticism, but that it is the words of the Evening Post. The representative Alvheim and the undersigned fully agree that productivity needs to be improved. In this respect, we have strong instruments precisely because we own hospitals, regional enterprises. In the past, we had to deal with it differently in relation to the county council. Now we have the opportunity to make demands through the governance documents. It has already been done for 2002, and it will be followed up because it is a strong need. I fully agree with the representative that we need to improve productivity, and it is clearly within the follow-up plan that it should be increased. This is a clearer control, and there are also performance requirements. There is an improvement in productivity, but that is not enough, and it has to be followed up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1001	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. An improvement in productivity can hardly be said to be when waiting lists just increase. It has been demonstrated that treatment is available from 0.8 to 1.4 patients per day. day work in the psychiatric outpatient clinics. Then something must be tearing wrong. What do all these people do a day? It should be the department going in and looking at, one has to figure out how the work is actually going on in the clinics. Do they have too much freedom there? I think it is necessary that the department now intervenes in relation to the psychiatry and provides for a greater activity and productivity in terms of patient treatment. Do I now perceive the Council of State that this will be mentioned in the governance document that comes to businesses from next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1008	Those numbers, from 0.8 to 1.4, are numbers that are taken from a letter, I guess, to SV's group and relate to one institution, Nic Waal. The actual numbers are from 1 to 3. The starting point is that the management documents contain clear requirements for improved productivity. I have noticed the representative's views and questions, and will bring it back to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1026	This question has been withdrawn. Questions 12 and 13 will be taken up in response to questions 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1035	‘The County Ironing Offices report that about 95 pst. the organisation grants to enterprises to compensate for the costs incurred by the employer to facilitate the return of the sick and disabled to the labour market are unused after the scheme has worked for 9 months. What will the Council of State do to implement the measures adopted by the Grand Duchy at a reasonable pace?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1042	As one of the measures contained in the Memorandum of Understanding, an organisation grant scheme has been put in place from spring 2002. The organisation grant shall compensate for the additional costs/interactions of the establishment in relation to specific business-internal organisational measures. The grant is provided at a daily rate of 250 kroner and up to 500 kroner if the employer can prove higher expenditure. The grant may be provided in combination with active sick leave, graded sick pay or rehabilitation benefits in the course of work training. The organisation grant may also be granted to a worker at risk of sickness. It is true that by the end of September 2002, i.e. after six months of operation, the scheme had paid SEK 4.9 million. kr in the organisation allowance, of which 2 million. kr was paid only in September. This shows that the use is increasing, and I expect growth beyond the harvest as the measure becomes better known. The payment is made in arrears, and this also implies a certain amount of inertia in the case of payments. At the end of August, a total of 352 cases were granted. However, the reports of the Rikstrygdeverket have been received from the counties are positive. The grant is perceived as an appropriate instrument and is used in a variety of situations. These include, inter alia: reorganisation of work, training in new work and internal and external courses. The facilitation grant is a new measure, and it will take some time before it becomes known and used on a larger scale. The Employment Centres, which are established in all the counties, inform in different contexts about the instruments of the Memorandum of Understanding. In concluding cooperation agreements with the employment centre of the social security system, enterprises are provided with detailed information on the various instruments of popular concern, including: organisation grants. Per. On 5 October there are about 1 150 public and private enterprises, covering about 18 p.m. by all employees, agreed upon. An additional 1,200 companies will enter into a short-term agreement. Establishments concluding a cooperation agreement are provided with a separate contact person in the work centres providing advice and guidance on sick leave in general and in assisting in difficult individual cases. The Rikstrøgdeverket has provided for a liberal use of the organisation grant in the framework of the regulation. Particular attention has been paid to the targeted use of the grant scheme to achieve the objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding. In addition to the social security system, the social partners must focus to an even greater extent than they have so far on information on the instruments contained in the commitment agreement. There is good cooperation between the social partners and the social security system, both centrally and at state level, and I expect this to lead to a faster knowledge of the tools in the enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1053	The Council of State describes a number of good measures contained in the Memorandum of Understanding, but what is the starting point, and what she says little about, is why progress in using these instruments is so weak. It seems that this is not enough pressure from the Government. However, despite the fact that the use of the instruments has been very short, the need for an evaluation is underlined one year after the agreement has been concluded. Some government councils have also threatened to reduce the sick pay scheme if they do not achieve 20 pst. reduction of sick leave. Then I have to ask if it is such that it is desired to change the sickness pay scheme that the Government does not make more progress with regard to the use of the instruments at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1058	Let there be no doubt: an agreement is an agreement. What is important now is to make the Memorandum of Understanding work, with the instruments in place. The answer is short and good: No, there is no hidden agenda for not using the tools, and then in a way to advance an evaluation. There is an evaluation in the agreement. We'll take it when that time comes. Now it is important to make the agreement work, and it is important to make the instruments work where they should. It's been a short time. We have put extra pressure on it, and I also see that the use of the precisely planned grant has increased in recent times. But it's too early to say anything now. We follow it anyway. We would like the funds to be used more, because here there are resources and opportunities to help those who need it specifically in the individual workplace. But then also all the parties to the agreement have a responsibility to just make this known and to make it work out where it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1063	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased with what the Council of State says, that you do not have a hidden agenda here. However, it is true that a very short time has come to try out the instruments contained in the commitment agreement – one thing is the organisation grant, another is the wage subsidy for companies recruiting disabled people. Strengthening the Rikstrøgdeverket with 600 new jobs is something that also depends on. There are few large, heavy, state-owned enterprises included as IA companies. The same is true in the private sector, where you have very few that are drawn as IA companies. On this basis and in order to have time to test the instruments before evaluating, I would like to ask whether the Council of State will help to extend the deadline for evaluation. Now nine months have passed since the agreement was concluded. There are three months left, and you know that you're depending on how to deal with the instruments that were meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1072	An agreement is an agreement. In the agreement concluded between the parties, there is also an obligation to evaluate it, with the experience we then have, to provide the means available and the result obtained. All work centres are in place in all 19 counties. We have received feedback that this works very well. What is one of the challenges is that we see that there are big differences between the states in terms of including both public and private enterprises. This is also something we follow up, because the most important thing now is to make the agreement work and get more people to end up about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1080	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1083	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade that I understand will be answered by the Minister of State: ‘Foreign vessels may sail from port to port in Norway with cargo, as opposed to NIS registered. These vessels do not pay many of the taxes and charges that NIS ships have to pay. This leads to unfair competition. It is also not checked whether the employees of these foreign ships have a work permit in Norway. Why is this not checked to a greater extent, and what will the Council of State do to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1092	I am aware that police districts seem to vary in scope to carry out checks on residence and work permits on foreign ships going to Norwegian ports. I have also understood that this is mainly due to uncertainty as to how the rules currently in existence are to be understood and interpreted and how they can be implemented. The Ministry is therefore currently working on clarifying and reviewing the rules for a more manageable regulatory framework that can also be implemented. I would like to stress that this work is difficult, because Section 6 of the Foreign Affairs Act requires a work permit for work carried out by non-residents in the Reich, but at the same time this is to be adapted to the international agreements we have. There it is also clear that the international agreements and obligations we have mean that we are to be held back from requiring work permits for crews of foreign ships operating in several Norwegian ports and serving ports outside Norway at the same time. This is in line with the Norwegian principle and the position of the flag State principle and the international practice set out by Norway. It has been difficult for the police to enforce the law as it is today, because it has required clearer rules. The Ministry is now working on rules, and assesses the issues of exempting – because there is an exception clause in the Foreign Affairs Act – this area from the work permit requirement, or of making more practical rules in the area that the police can actually follow. In fact, today's practice of not controlling this has evolved and existed almost all the years since we received today's Foreign Affairs Act, but there have been strong forces that have wanted us to make changes in this area, and they have shown this different treatment. I would like to stress that different treatment may not primarily apply to NIS-registered ships, but NOR-registered ships, which are currently those operating along the coast, and who experience that foreign-owned ships may have lower costs due to crewing from home or other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1099	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Section 6 of the Foreign Affairs Act reads as follows: ‘Foreigners who intend to work for or without remuneration or who will engage in acquisitions in the rich must have a work permit.’ Furthermore, there is a deepening of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs: ‘Foreign crews on board ships operating in Norway when engaged in Norwegian domestic voyages must, as a general rule, have a work permit. Except for persons covered by the EEA Agreement. For the purposes of this Regulation, domestic voyage means a ship between Norwegian ports which then embarks goods/passengers in a port and delivers the goods/seats of passengers in another Norwegian port. No distinction is made here between Norwegian and foreign registered ships.’ If the Ministry of Local Affairs needs help, there's help getting at the Shipowners' Association, and I'd like to help get that help. Here the law that was adopted by noblesting and laying applies, and it must apply as much to the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ship Inspection as it applies to us representatives who are in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1116	So it is not quite clear that Section 6 of the Foreign Affairs Act can only be interpreted from the wording there; it must also be interpreted in the light of the international obligations we have. This means that in the case of those ships that not only go between Norwegian ports but also serve ports outside Norway, work permits are not necessarily required after today’s legislation. That's why it's been hard to draw these boundaries. But we expect to be able to conclude on how to draw them in a relatively short time. We have now worked through issues related to this, and are just before being able to make a decision and clarify the situation. But I want to remind you that this situation has been unclear since the law came. And what is today's practice on the political front is the practice that has been in all these years. Now we're going to make sure that we get a consistent practice and a state of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1121	I thank you again for the answer. I am not surprised that the NOR vessel, and also most of the shipping companies, are lying with their broken backs, when they have to pay two thirds more at the cost of having crews on board the ships. In addition, foreign vessels are bunkered without VAT and without the charges imposed in Norway. «Section 49 of the Foreign Affairs Act details the geographical scope of the law. Therefore, ships engaged in domestic voyages are covered by the law, and foreigners working on board ships must be authorised to work. And here it doesn't matter which nation the ship is registered in." I quote Bodø County Councillor and Police Department. They go on to say, ‘It should then be reasonable to state that non-residents on board Norwegian or foreign ships engaged on domestic voyages shall be authorised to remain and work on board.’ If I have a rocket that goes out to date, or I have a doctor who goes out to date, then you can be absolutely convinced that the Skip Control is on me right away and get it fixed. However, in the case of a work permit for foreign workers on board non-resident ships in Norwegian waters, this should not be the case! How's it going?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1140	I would like to stress that I agree that the situation in which we have not practised the law has not been good. That is why we must ensure that practice and law are consistent. But it's not that simple, because many of the foreign ships that go between Norwegian ports also serve ports in other countries and take intermediate cabotage on these routes. What is essential for Norway is that Norway also has other shipping interests, where Norwegian vessels in the NIS register that do not go to Norwegian ports depend on other countries also exercising the possibility that ships coming from abroad can operate their coast with intermediate loads. If we were to remove that possibility, we would be able to limit the absolute majority of Norwegian shipping, namely the NIS fleet's ability to have profitability on part of the transport routes in other parts of the world. That is why we also need to look at the whole of how we are going to practice and implement the NIS legislation. But I promise the representative that this will be clarified quite soon, and then we will have a law that can be practised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1148	«The passengers with the ferries to and from Lofoten have experienced waiting times for the summer to come by car to and from Lofoten for one day. Especially long waiting times have been in the ferry connection between Bodø and Lofoten. The lofoot is one of Norway’s most attractive travel and holiday destinations, national and international. The waiting times in the summer queue have been totally unacceptable. What will the Council of State do to improve the ferry capacity to and from Lofoten before the next trip life season in 2003?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1155	State expenditure on national road ferries has increased significantly in recent years. For 2003, the State budget proposed a budget of well over 1090 million. The level of funding for 2002 is approximately the same, and this is expected to lead mainly to the continuation of the offer in 2003 as for 2002. With regard to the ferry capacity in Lofoten, it is such that the ferry traffic is significantly higher in the three summer months than in the rest of the year. The reason for this is the large tourist flow to the area during the summer period. If you look at the traffic for the rest of the year, the ferry capacity of the Statens vägvesen meets the service targets in relation to the number of remaining cars. The state road transport services are working to improve the efficiency of national road transport operations, including: by increasing the use of tenders, for which the Stortinget opened in spring following a proposal from the Government of the new Act on Professional Transport. I am concerned that any gains from this work can be used to improve the offer. Against this background, I would like to work towards an improvement in the capacity of ferry services in Lofoten in the summer of 2003. This could be done by smoking a ferry from the Rogaland area released when a new catamaran is put into operation in the Stavanger-Tau link in May 2003 into the Lofoten ferry services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1166	This summer, we experienced a traffic increase of 15 pst, respectively, on the Bodø–Røst and Værøy connections – Mosques. and 19.8 pst. in the months of June and July. So it's not just that the capacity is bad as it is today, but the capacity is getting worse because of a significant increase in traffic. The remaining cars were 8.2 pst in July. Svolvær-Skutvik, which is the second main connection, had a remaining average of 24.7 pst. and a traffic increase of more than 30 pst. I would like to thank the Council of State for a positive response, where she addresses the problem and seeks to remedy it. This situation is now, it is a major obstacle to local business, which has a lot of its cash in and out during the summer. In addition, Norway’s reputation as a destination is in fact affected when tourists travel from southern Europe and are waiting one day to arrive at the final destination. I doubt that the Council of State or Norwegian transport authorities would otherwise have accepted such a waiting time for other parts of the Norwegian traffic link.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1173	It is quite right, as the representative Voie points out, that there are many cars left in these summer months. Of course, it is a difficult dilemma that there is so much difference in capacity needs between winter and summer. I have to say I think it is very happy that we have this traffic, and that the Lofoten is a very popular destination for many in the summer. That is why I am concerned that we should find the best possible solution to this, and the Swedish Road Administration has a work going on to facilitate a solution here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1180	I also think it is very positive that the Council of State is following up the recommendation of the Stortingen to establish a national road link to bid. Will there also be work to ensure that the ferry service in the West Fjord Basin can be offered, both in terms of frequency, call points and the most rational way to serve local, business and international travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1185	The purpose of putting these holiday offers on offer is just to get a win, and that we think it is useful for people regardless of whether it is in the West fjord or in other parts of the country. It is not an end in itself to have a tender for the purpose of the tender, but it is precisely in order to obtain a profit by offering a better offer to those who depend on this mode of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1194	‘Statoil has decided to transfer the transport of propane gas to North Norway from rail to road. [[Moose Sea]] According to Statoil, NSB Vergos did not provide a satisfactory transport offer. Road gas transport poses a safety risk, in addition, is contrary to the environmental policy objectives of transferring more freight from road to rail. Will the Council of State take the initiative in finding a solution so that this gas transport can continue to be transported by rail?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1201	I got a similar question in January this year from the representative Inge Ryan. As I pointed out at the time, it is my job to ensure framework conditions in the various transport sectors that lead to a transport distribution that benefits society as a whole. I will therefore continue to work to see if the framework conditions of the sectors are right today, including infrastructure capacity and charging. However, I cannot directly intervene in the freight market by imposing obligations on companies to choose transport solutions. CargoNet, which is owned by the NSB and Swedish Green Cargo, and which is the main player in goods on the Norwegian railway network, has stated that the transports to which the representative Hansen refers came earlier from Statoil’s gas plant in Sweden. Statoil, however, has changed its internal logistics, which means that they will take the gas from other plants, and after I have been informed, have a buffer in Hommelvik and Stjørdal 2 to 3 miles northeast of Trondheim. CargoNet's nearest freight terminal is Trondheim, so if the gas is to travel by train, it must be transported by road to Trondheim before it leaves by train northwards. I am aware that CargoNet has long been in dialogue with Statoil about a combined solution where semi-trailers/containers are lifted on the train in Trondheim for transport to the lake. I note that this solution has not been found satisfactory by Statoil. Hommelvik/Stjørdal-Mosjøen via Trondheim will not be long enough for the train to compete with the car, which can drive this distance directly without having to take the roundabout about Trondheim. As regards the safety risk of this transport going on the road, I would like to point out that it is continuously working to improve the road standard on the route between Trondheim and Fauske. The main projects being carried out on the current Trondheim-Mo route in Rana are the conversion of the road past Steinkjer and the tunnel through Korgfjellet. In addition, a number of smaller measures will be implemented in Northern Ireland with a view to wide-ranging extension and improvement of the curve to improve the accessibility of heavy traffic and thus reduce the risk of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1212	I cannot say that I was satisfied with the answer, because there is nothing in the answer that the Council of State will follow up and try to help to keep this transport going by rail. The Council of State indicated that she had answered a similar question in January this year and that she considers it her primary task to contribute to the compliance of the framework conditions for the carriage of goods with the objective of the national transport plan. A revised national budget has been examined and a new national budget has been presented since January. Then it is tempting to ask the Council of State: Where in the State budget this year do we again find measures to help more goods move from road to rail?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1221	I feel that we are concerned with a big and interesting and comprehensive question, which goes beyond the specific question I have received. I would like to comment on it anyway. It's important that we keep the infrastructure up to date, not least on the railway side, and when we're going to give a tight budget priority, we've prioritised this within the railway for next year. Furthermore, I would like to make a comment in relation to what is the question today. I still believe that it would not be right for me, as the Council of State, to make decisions for different businesses on which logistics solutions they are going to go for. Especially if it means both detours and extra costs, it's not certain that society has earned it. It is important that we provide good solutions for both businesses and the environment, but we cannot impose charges that bring costs and perhaps environmental impacts on both companies and communities that we do not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1228	We're dealing here with one case – and that's not the first one, it's been other cases as well – where the transport of gas, propane gas, that is dangerous load, is transferred from rail to road. Finally, I would like to ask the following question: When one sees that development may go the way that the transport of dangerous goods is transferred to the road, in this case in an area of poor roads and changing climatic conditions, what will the Council of State do specifically to reverse this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1233	I am concerned that we should find the best solutions for the transport of dangerous goods, and I believe that the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen is also concerned about this. On the other hand, I want to be careful about imposing business solutions that might mean a greater risk factor because you have to both transport a part by road and you have to try to find a railway solution, and that results in an even longer transport of dangerous substances. I am going to appear in my further work to be concerned both with facilitating environmentally friendly transport and safety, not least safety in the transport of dangerous goods. In this context, the improvement of road standards is also very important, because we cannot escape the fact that some dangerous goods will be transported by road in any case. So we have to think about both the railway and the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1243	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Minister of Transport is setting up a working group to look at current traffic training in the school. Does the Council of State think that regular driver training should be more included in school, and will the Council of State take the initiative to also consider different measures to integrate such training into primary and secondary school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1252	Children and young people are a vulnerable group in traffic, and I think it is very important to give these groups better conditions to move safely in traffic. The establishment of the Working Party on Traffic Training at School is a follow-up to the National Transport Plan — NTP. The Group shall take a closer look at the need for improvements in traffic training in schools as part of work to improve road safety. The working group shall initially not look at driver training, including, for example: the moped driver training offered in individual schools. With this new working group, I would like to focus on the training that takes place before the age of driving licences, which will increase understanding of traffic and improve attitudes towards the traffic of children and young people. I therefore do not think it right to change the mandate of this working group to remove the focus from this important issue. However, the more specific training for motor vehicle drivers mentioned by the representative Rye is obviously important for road safety on Norwegian roads. A high proportion of accidents in Norway are caused by driver-related factors, including high speed. According to the National Transport Plan, the Road Directorate is now working on the conversion of current driver training. As the first part of this, I intend to introduce a basic, common-substance driving course for all those who are going to take driving licences for light vehicle categories, i.e. moped, motorcycle and passenger car. This basic traffic course will provide initial knowledge of the traffic system, interaction between road users and understanding of risks. The focus is on attitudes in traffic and is intended to give participants greater reflection and awareness of safe behaviour in traffic. In connection with the introduction of such a course, I see it as natural, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, to work to ensure that such a course can be offered as an elective course in the school. I can assure you that the Department and the State Road Administration are actively working to improve driver training on the basis of the leadership of the National Transport Plan. In the further work on the conversion, I would also like to assess in more detail the relationship that the representative Ryen is dealing with, and I am definitely taking the recording with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1263	There are many ways to do road safety prevention work, including through school, and to some extent it is already happening today. There is already a national choice subject called driving and driving training, which takes into account the theoretical knowledge part of driving training. When we know that the theory course is no longer mandatory, and that this leads to many young people choosing not to take it, as it means a cost of perhaps NOK 1000 to NOK 2 000 extra, I look at this to offer such a course through school as a cost-effective way of running traffic training. How, then, will the Council of State proceed to coordinate this traffic basic course that she is talking about, in relation to the offer that already exists? And how can we ensure that other elements of traffic training that are already offered to older students in school today are also taken care of?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1268	I feel a bit of a need to distinguish between what's going on in driver training, which the representative Stenberg Ryen is concerned about – which I think is very important, and on which we have a lot of work going on, both in the department and in the Road Directorate – and what's going on in child and youth training, from kindergarten to high school, in traffic and traffic behaviour. In the case of driver training, it requires slightly different knowledge from that of other types of road users, such as cyclists or pedestrians. In terms of theoretical knowledge courses, I fully agree with the representative of Stenberg Ryen that there is a need to have a proper theoretical platform, whether you are training on mopeds, motorcycles or cars. This is being worked on in the State Road Service, so we need to make sure that we have a system that takes care of theoretical knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1277	I thank you for the answers so far. I think both the Council of State and I realize that there is a need to look at traffic training in school as a whole. There are also other aspects than the provision of theoretical knowledge courses as an elective subject. This could be done, for example, by: are also concerned with rules of absence, with regard to the type of absence to be carried on the diploma, with regard to the possibility of absence during driving hours in a pot which is not to be placed on the certificate, and such matters. I had hoped that the Council of State could beat two flies in a taste when she first set up a working group to look at traffic training in the school, so that all these conditions could be looked at and cared for. I wonder, what's her plan to include the higher levels of primary and secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1282	I think I've got a lot of constructive contributions here in terms of traffic training, and I'm going to take them with me. When we reduce this working group, it's for it to look at the traffic training that goes on not to be the driver. What I'm very concerned about is that we're going to develop further, for example. that children should learn to behave like cyclists in traffic. Today, there is no uniform way to do this. Schools do it differently, and parents do not know what kind of training the children have received, and what responsibility they have, for example. It has. A lot of these aspects are why we're going through and we're going to get a cover, so we can figure out how to move on. In the case of driver training, there is a greater work going on in relation to how we can take care of both the theory side, which the representative Stenberg Rye is concerned about, and which is very important, and what goes on practical experience. I'm going to take with me the recordings I've received here, and I'm going to look at them also in relation to the work going on to facilitate driver training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1297	I have a question for our Honourable Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Directorate for Foreign Affairs has now decided to place an asylum reception for persons aged 0 to 15 years at Vårli, Moss. [[UDI]] The municipality is without influence, in addition to the fact that neighbours and others involved feel overwhelmed. Local people have protested against the establishment, and signing lists have been sent to UDI and the municipality. Does the Council of State consider that local self-government is adequately protected when the UDI concludes agreements with a private lessor/seller without any influence on the decision by the municipality or the residents concerned?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1306	The question of whether municipal autonomy has been weakened in connection with the establishment of state reception has been raised on several occasions, including: for the examination of a Document No: Eight motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Simonsen on 18 April this year. The representative Simonsen then proposed that the State should not be able to establish asylum reception facilities in a municipality if the municipality does not want it. All parties, except the Advance Party, opposed this and concluded that there is a national responsibility where the municipalities cannot have a veto right. Norway is obliged under international agreements and conventions to deal with asylum applications and to provide protection to those in need of protection. The UDI is responsible for ensuring that reception points are adequate at all times and that the reception points are known to be located in one municipality or another. For the Foreign Affairs Directorate, it is important to establish good cooperation and dialogue with the host municipalities and neighbours. However, in some situations, when inflows indicate that new receptions need to be established at a high pace, the Foreign Affairs Directorate must nevertheless have the opportunity to do so. To date, around 600 lone minor asylum seekers have arrived in Norway this year. In comparison, every last year there have been about 550 single minors. The age group is 0-15 years approximately. 10 pst. by the lone minor applicants. There is now also a differentiation of the offer of lone minor asylum seekers. The reception outside Moss, to which the representative refers, is part of this differentiation. The reception shall have 25 seats and shall accommodate lone minors from 0 to 15 years of age. The establishment is in line with St. ermeld. No 17 for 2000-2001 the asylum and refugee policy in Norway and the views of the majority of the Committee in Finland. S. No 197 for the same year. It was concluded that the offer to the youngest single minors should be strengthened by the establishment of separate sections with enhanced staffing for this group. We also have a department for this age group in the municipality of Flora in Sogn and Fjordane. Since many of the children have family in the eastern region, it was desirable to have a department here as well. This will be the country's smallest asylum recipient. It will be 24-hour continuous staffing with qualified staff. The move shall take place gradually, which will give the municipality better time for its preparation. The children shall have the most normal life possible, with school, homework, play and leisure activities. Reception facilities will often be controversial, especially if the reception facilities are large. But the fear of this reception, which is the smallest of the country, with room for up to 25 of the very smallest of the lone minors, I have little understanding of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1319	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We are now beginning to see some long-term consequences and effects of an overly liberal asylum, immigration and refugee policy, and I am fully aware of the regulatory framework behind it. But when there are protests coming from all over the country, and we know that at this reception that the Council of State describes as very small, it is likely that children and young people with severe trauma will come, and we know from experience that crime is increasing, the number of winning crimes is increasing and there will be riots and unrest in the neighbourhoods, shouldn't you at least consider putting asylum recipients a little away from cities, dents and centers in order to try to counteract any of these negative consequences and effects? And another thing: Should you not take the people on board – I know you have to place this somewhere – so that this can take place a little more flexibly and flexibly in the neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1328	It is clear that the objective should have been that we should have been able to do this in a way that was better than creating acceptance, and have time around the establishment of individual receptions and creating good relationships between neighbours and municipalities. It's not always possible to do that. Among other things, this year there has been a need to establish a relatively large number of asylum recipients, especially from the autumn of last year to the spring of this year. When it comes to the reception of lone minor asylum seekers, it is very important, in my opinion, that they receive their own reception, and when we have a lack of their own reception facilities, not least for the most vulnerable group – that is, children between 0 and 15 years of age – I do not think that the lesson of consequences that now the representative Hedstrøm says is the result of asylum reception elsewhere is correct in relation to this particular group, and that there is necessarily evidence of what is being said. It's about 25 children under the age of 15 who are going to have a close follow-up in the day-care centre, which is stronger than any of what we have at other asylum receptions, and we can't say that they should be placed far inside the shed. We're going to make sure these children have normal rights that are being fulfilled in our society as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1335	I want to tell the Council of State that there's an intermediary between putting them in the blackest shade and in a dense urban area, so we don't have to overdramatize this. Another thing is that Moss municipalities' representatives themselves have stated that there will be significant challenges, especially with regard to education for these children. I read a letter from the Municipal Councils' Central Association that shows that where there are children and young people who are very resource-intensive, the state does not cover the total expenditure. They overrun the municipality with regard to the location of reception, but they do not follow up with sufficient means. Will the Council of State ensure that this reception is covered by all the expenditure of the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1345	We will always have a dialogue with the municipalities about the costs of the services provided by municipalities in connection with a reception. This is a special reception, which is very different from most other asylum recipients. It is clear that we are going to have a fruitful discussion with the municipality of Moss about what additional loads had to come. Among other things, we pay. for both schooling and kindergarten places for those who are at the age of needing it. But at the same time, I would like to stress that I think the debate that has been in Moss is relatively rude. I also think the representative Hedstrøm's other questions here instead built up under a number of prejudices. I can't see that he has evidence of what he said related to receiving for the weakest, for the youngest and with the kind of crew that has been mentioned here. I think this bears a little bit of the impression that it gets nerdy up under hideous. We have to say that when there are children between 0 and 15 years of age without their parents in this country, our society has to take care of them and make sure that they have the rights they have in relation to the Children's Convention. It shall do so. A normal reception will not be satisfactory to meet the needs of these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1355	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In the municipality of Rygge, a landowner is refused to start the construction of the Heimdal area despite the existence of both a confirmed regulatory plan and an approved construction plan for the purpose. On the part of the municipality, reference is made to provisions relating to the extension measures, which are intended to be dealt with in the context of the municipal plan. The extension of the plot is therefore subject to final adoption of the municipal plan. Does the municipality have permission to refuse the construction application when it is in accordance with a confirmed control plan and approved construction plan?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1364	This issue lies in the border country between planning rules and building rules, i.e. The role of the Minister of the Environment and my competence, but I will respond on behalf of both. Where a building application is in conformity with the adopted regulatory plan and the building plan, the applicant has the right to have the application granted. That's what's in the plan and building law is a so-called yes-law. However, it may be that the regulatory plan provides for step-by-step, so-called order-order provisions. If such provisions, e.g.: where there is a requirement that something else be built before the relevant field, it authorises the municipality to reject the application. Consequently, the application will not meet the requirements of the regulatory plan. However, I understand the question so that there are no such provisions in the regulatory plan that impede the development in question, but that the municipality is working on provisions relating to the municipal plan and that the new municipal plan has not been adopted. In such cases, the municipality cannot reject the application without delay, but it has the opportunity to prohibit construction and parts and therefore reject the application. In that case, the municipality has two years to take a new regulatory decision. If there is no prohibition on construction and parts and the application is in full compliance with the regulatory plan and the requirements of the Law on Planning and Building, Regulations and Statutes, the municipality is not allowed to reject the application.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1375	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret positively. As I understand it, these things should be in place in the Rygge municipality, so that you can start building according to the code. And then the question of follow-up is: what will the Council of State do in this specific matter, so that the builder can accept his application for construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1382	The Planning and Building Act gives the order of how to review a decision made by the municipality if it is considered invalid. The first will be to complain about the matter to the county council. If you do not agree with the County Council, you may refer the matter to the Ministry with questions relating to whether the interpretation of the law is correct or not. In principle, it is not safe for the Council of State to review municipal decisions, but there is a right of appeal in the Planning and Building Act, where the first instance – and therefore the main body – to appeal is the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1387	This may indicate that in such cases there may be an information problem in the municipalities, that the municipality does not actually know how to practice this legislation. So then the question becomes to the Council of State: are you willing to increase the information to the municipalities about how this legislation is actually going to be practised, so that these problems are avoided if private developers are refused to build on their own property without there being any real reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1392	If it turns out that there is a recurring problem that there is a lack of information on how to interpret these rules, it is clear that we will look at what information is being provided today. But it is also the case that in these areas we are working on a new part on the regulatory agenda – we have a legislative selection under the Ministry of the Environment, the Plan Law Committee, which is preparing changes to the law. I do not see it as necessary that we start a great deal of information work until we may be able to implement new parts of this law. But we can ensure that in the information work on the new legislation that will come in a few years, we also include all the experience we have about mistreatment in municipalities, so that we can have a base where you can see how this should actually be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1400	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1403	I have wanted to ask the Minister for Defence the following question, which will therefore be answered by the Minister for the Environment: ‘NSB has terminated the agreement with the Ministry of Defence providing military personnel with a discount on train journeys. In the worst case, the scheme falls away. What will the Council of State do to ensure that military personnel can still return to their home in a reasonable economic way, in relation to the economy of the Norwegian soldier while serving his/her duty of protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1412	It is true that the NSB has terminated the rebate agreement with the Ministry of Defence with effect from 1 January 2003. The Ministry will start negotiations with the NSB on a new discount agreement at the end of this month. The objective is to have a new agreement ready for a reasonable period of time before the expiry of the existing agreement at the end of this year. Cheap collective transport options have always been a good offer that soldiers have appreciated. There is also much evidence that improved rebate agreements and increased use of public communications have led to a decrease in the number of traffic-killed and traffic-damaged soldiers. The Ministry of Defence is therefore prepared to negotiate the best possible discount agreement for those under protection, and I am confident that the NSB will also take its share of the responsibility to ensure a continued favourable discount agreement. The Ministry of Defence is facing a negotiating situation, and I am therefore asking for an understanding that I cannot go into the details of this matter at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1421	I thank you for the answer, which in its simplicity I interpret as positive. The reason why I raised this question was that I wanted to raise the soldiers' corps to a level of stagnation, as the soldiers' woes and woes meant a great deal to the Advance Party and the undersigned. With a daily salary of over NOK 100, the costs for the soldiers by getting home on perm and back to the office will be of the utmost importance. This is, of course, about the safety of the soldiers, but also – and not least – about well-being and quality of life. Getting home regularly is of the greatest importance to the individual soldier, but I also think this will reflect on how the military service is performed. When you know that the soldier today, for example. have to pay NOK 118.50 on a trip-return Oslo-Bergen with a discount versus a whole NOK 1 186 without an agreement between the NSB and the Ministry of Defence, it says itself that without an agreement the return journey will not be possible as many times during the service period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1428	I fully agree with the representative of Bredvold that good conditions are important for those who choose to earn and who serve, their duty of protection in Norway. That is why the Ministry of Defence has also entered into these negotiations with the NSB after they terminated the agreement, with a view to reaching a good agreement for the soldiers also in the continuation. It must be that those who actually choose to make an effort for the defence of our country, in order to contribute to the defence of the duty of protection, must also have reasonable framework conditions. Having a good order in relation to the discount on the NSB I think is one element in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1433	I thank the Council of State once again for the answer, which underpins the importance of the soldiers having reasonable ways to get home and back to the place of duty. The agreement expires on 1 October, with three months' notice, i.e. 1 January 2003. An agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the NSB must therefore be signed as soon as possible – and we have been given an answer to that – as the uncertainty as to what will happen with the discounts that are today will also reflect the everyday lives of the soldiers. The old agreement, i.e. the current one is from 1992, and I hope the new one is going to be closer to what is today, i.e. with large discounts for military personnel serving first-time duty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1440	As I also said in my first answer, the Ministry of Defence is working to negotiate the best possible discount agreement for those under protection. I also believe that the NSB will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1455	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1461	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «I refer you to a look up in Hövågavias 16 October d.o.b. It appears that caravans are fixed as cabins. Recent reference has been made to repeated circumvention of legislation in relation to the coastal zone. The Minister for the Environment talks a lot about the protection of the coastal zone, but has so far chosen not to intervene in relation to municipalities that break the law. Will the Council of State continue this passive attitude when we see the spread of illegal ‘coastal cabins’ along the coast?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1470	The accusations of my inaction in the coastal zone management fall on its own unfairness, and I can't see that the representative Klungland has coverage for his claims in this question-time question, without going into any detail on that particular point. There is a broad consensus in Stortinget that we should have a strict practice for building in the 100 meter belt along the sea, which I am responsible for following up. The need for strict practice was pointed out in my letter of 8 March this year to the coastal municipalities, the county councils and the county councils. Here I underlined the responsibility of the municipalities to manage the beach areas in line with national interests and asked the county councillors and municipalities to ensure that the national guidelines were followed. I note with interest that the representative of Klungland in a statement in the Agderpost just refers to this letter, while in the question he claims that the Ministry of Environment acts passively. I can also mention that the Directorate for Nature Management has made an extra effort over the past few years to improve guidance and information on the beach zone. Among other things, there is a separate manual on law in the beach zone that gives the municipalities good help in the work on these matters. It is the municipality that, under the Planning and Building Act, is responsible for the spatial planning and treatment of individual items, including in the coastal zone. The State shall contribute to this work and shall ensure that national interests are safeguarded – shall simply address what is not in line with the national leadership. It is also the responsibility of the municipality to enforce the Law on Planning and Building, and it is the municipality that has to assess the question of circumvention of the rules and possible responses to illegal measures. If a municipality fails to respect national interests in the coastal zone, the county may intervene. I think the above-mentioned case of caravans illustrates that the regulation plan should not be done from the Storting estuary, but in the municipalities that know the local conditions. My responsibility is to ensure that national policies are followed, while concrete follow-up must take place in the municipalities and in the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1487	I thank you for the answer, and I think it is actually a good word that the Council of State comes along with the beach zone problem. But the problem must also be seen by the Council of State. When we processed the outdoor message here in the house, the council said he would follow closely what was happening in the beach zone. In a case in Westfold in the summer, industrial activities were built and cabins rented to feed the beach zone. Then we've shown the seabu issue in Kristiansand, and now camping cabins in Lillesand. So even if you trust local authorities and local authorities to do the job, it turns out they don't. The Council of State has the overall responsibility for the law being followed up, and then I would have expected that he had been more active in relation to the department actually intervened against the statesmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1492	I have full confidence that our statesmen will intervene in matters of national character and national interest around the counties, if these are matters that are contrary to law and order. In New Hellesund, Søgne Municipality, as the representative of Klungland knows, I said no to new cabins this summer because it was contrary to national 100 meter legislation. I also had a similar case in Eastfold, which ended up on my table because it was an objection, and where I stopped some plots because it was contrary to national policy guidelines. But there's a lot going on around our municipalities, and we can't let Stortinget evolve into a planning and building council where we discuss individual matters. However, when national interests are out and going, the county officials have a mandate to bring these matters to the attention of the central authorities, so that we can decide. In the particular case referred to here, there are some caravans standing on a campsite, which have not been responded to by the county and not by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1497	The problem here is that it's not regulated as cabins. The state council may have said no to cabins, but it is regulated as fishing bows, sea arches, caravans and economic areas, and that is precisely what shows that it is a violation of the law. We're now referring to single examples, but we're referring to many single examples in a row. Then I had hoped that the Environment Minister would have realized that it is not just a case, but that it is a circumvention of the law that takes place in the municipalities, and that he had taken responsibility – the overall responsibility he has – for the law to be followed up. In fact, I expect the Minister for the Environment to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1502	At that point, I am not going to disappoint the representative of Klungland. That's also why I sent out a letter on 8 March this year stating that the starting point is that it should not be built in the 100 meter belt in the beach zone. Derogations may be granted and may also be made through regulatory changes, but the State may intervene if national interests are out and out. In the case of the arcs of Flekkerøy outside Kristiansand, it is underlined that if the arcs are used for purposes other than those to which they are regulated, they are contrary to the law. But I can't run around like sea bouncy police and check if people live in a naus that's regulated for fishing purposes. This must be taken care of by the county officials and municipalities. As regards this question, it is a caravan that the representative of Klungland believes you have taken off the wheels and therefore it is considered to be a cabin. Then you say locally, if you take my cart, I move to Sweden. With such plays, the Workers' Party has played out its role towards the public. This says the leader and chief trustee of the Municipal Council of Lillesand, who believes that I should not interfere with it. But I have full confidence that the County Council in East Agder will intervene if these caravans are developing into permanent cabins.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1509	Then we go back to questions 12 and 13 from the respective representatives Harald T. Nesvik and Siri Hall Arnøy to the Minister of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1516	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘Joint association of oil workers [[OFS]] What has the Council of State done in this matter after this has been made known?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1525	In line with the wishes of the Storting, an independent investigation commission was set up in March 2001 to assess all aspects related to diving in the North Sea oil industry during the pioneer period. I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's independence. The mandate states that the Commission shall, inter alia: have to assess whether anyone can be blamed for any damage caused by diving and whether there is a legal basis of responsibility for the authorities or other actors. Independence in relation to this mandate is necessary and essential, but of course not unproblematic. The independence implies that the ministry must avoid interference with the Commission's work to an even greater extent than is usual. It was considered that the Commission should ensure good dialogue with all stakeholders, including representatives of divers. The mandate of the Commission provides for the establishment of a Contact Forum of the social partners. OFS and NOPEF were among the organisations invited to participate in this forum, which were intended to serve as a professional expert group to assist the Commission. I note with regret that these organisations found reason to withdraw from the cooperation, and I have notified the OFS in a letter dated 16 May 2002. In the light of the Storting Decision of 11 June 2001, the North Sea Diving Alliance has been granted observer status in the Commission. I note that the alliance has withdrawn from this cooperation in a letter dated 1 October of this year to the Committee of Inquiry, and I regret that the North Sea Diving Alliance does not see fit to use its observer role. The department's agreement to the Commission is to underline the importance of completing the work now. Therefore, before the summer we asked for an interim report which was submitted at the end of August. We have also stressed to the Commission that a final report must be submitted by the end of the year. I believe that it is now important for all parties that the investigation commission has completed its investigation work in the short time that remains. But to sum up my answer to the question: The fact that the investigation commission is appointed by the government does not mean that it is the government’s tool – on the contrary in this case. I will therefore not interfere with or oppose the Commission's work along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1544	The facts of this case are that a recurring theme in this room is exactly what goes on at the Investigation Commission and its work. I have also read the preliminary report that has come from the Commission, and it is certainly useful if you are interested in knowing what kind of diving has been done in the North Sea, but it is at least not in line with what the Storting asked for in relation to the investigation commission. So I really hope that something comes out of it when you're going to make your final report by the end of the year. What's the problem is that now there's expertise, the people who've been involved in this oil adventure -- or I was saying the oil monster -- pulled out. Who is now going to help the Commission with the expert opinions and to assess the material collected? Doesn't the Council of State see that this is going to be a huge problem because you don't have that competence inside the Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1551	I can unfortunately just repeat what I said. And to make the issue even clearer, the mandate of the Commission is that the Commission should consider issues such as: may affect my own department. If I intervened in any way in the Commission's work, I would make that part of the job impossible for the Commission. So no matter what I think or don't mean about the Commission's work – and I also mean that the Commission is very competently composed – it would be wrong for the purpose of the mandate and scrutiny if I interfered with the Commission's work. It is independent for reasons of integrity, inter alia: in relation to the examination of my own department, which means that I must have an arm's length distance from the Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1556	I understand the government's problem, and that's one of the reasons why I've asked questions along the way: Why has it taken so long to get a trial in relation to what the Stortinget asked for? Why did you have to go along in the process and change what was on the terms of reference of the investigation commission, precisely to examine all matters and over a longer period of time? Why did the Storting have to go in and say that the Commission should be further expanded with diving skills? – That’s exactly why you’ve asked a lot of questions. I also think it's in the ministry's interest that the result that comes out of work is in line with the actual situation. Then you actually need an expertise to evaluate the information you've collected, and that's what you've lost on this. In conclusion, I hope – as the Stortinget has taken the initiative in this Commission – that the Council of State can confirm that the Stortinget will be presented with a broad review of this case and access to all documents that will be useful to assess what has emerged.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1565	It is clear that we are going to do everything we can to meet not only the Storting's request, but the Storting's intention with this review. It is clear that this review is intended to reveal the facts, and it is clear that the results of the Commission’s work will be presented to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1574	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In a letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee on the Examination Commission for the Exploration of Pioneer Divers, North Sea Divers The Alliance states: ‘A very few divers have received their explanations for reading or submission for reading. Explanations/certificates of divers are not verifiable and thus not quality guaranteed.’ If this results in correctness, what will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1583	As I mentioned in the reply to the representative Nesvik, Stortinget stressed that there was an independent investigation of the diving during the pioneer period, and that the Commission was perceived as independent of the parties and interests involved. And as I also just said to the representative Nesvik: as the responsible department for security in the petroleum industry, the Ministry of Labour and Administration could also be a party to be examined. For the sake of any problems of stability, I neither can nor will instruct the Investigation Commission. This applies both to the working form and the working method of the Examination Commission, to what should be examined, to whom meetings should be convened, etc. But I assume, of course, that the Commission follows the rules that apply to investigation commissions. I would like to point out once again that the investigation commission is now in the final phase of its work. The report shall be submitted no later than 31 December of this year and it is of major importance that the review Commission is now to be completed. I think all parties will be worthy of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1590	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the view that everyone will be well served with the work now to be completed. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a fundamental difference between interfering with the Commission's work and thus trying to influence the Commission's results, and trying to ensure that the Commission's working methods are such that the result is the best possible. I would like to ask the Council of State quite specifically about the claim that I have referred to in my question, that it is that not all the divers who have explained themselves to the Commission have got their explanation read up and signed this. Does the state council know if it's correct or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1597	I don't know for sure. But one of the reasons why I am now concerned that the Commission's work will be completed is that we will have both the report and the supporting material available for the Commission's work, so that in full publicity and clarity we can both clarify what happened in the North Sea during the pioneer period – that is the important thing – and see to what extent all parties have actually been given the opportunity to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1602	I find that the Council of State obviously does not find this accusation so serious that this is something the Council of State has to check out. If the Council of State believes that checking whether this claim is correct would threaten the integrity of the investigation commission, I can only take note of it. But I would like to end by asking the Council of State if he sees that if the findings of the investigation commission were to be disputed, it would be a problem if it was not possible for others, historians, etc., to go into the basic material at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1607	It was Prime Minister Bratteli who said that it was not appropriate to address hypothetical questions. I think we're now well served to see what comes out of the investigation commission's work, to study the conclusions calmly and peacefully, and to the extent that the conclusions are controversial, get the search light on the matter as a result of their contentiousness. I think that the search light in itself can be important. In that context, if questions arise as to whether there is any material that some people believe has not been presented to the public, we must address that question when and if it arises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1612	Then you'll have your Question Time over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-23.ana.ud1679e1623	Preloaded report is not present.
