ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e32	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e35	On behalf of Øystein Djupedal and myself, I would like to make a proposal that a public commission be set up to investigate the future relations between the State and the Church, and that the Stortinge participates in the appointment of members of and in the establishment of the mandate of this Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e40	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e54	The Nordic cooperation setting is presented this year without any specific comments. It is gratifying that this year the Progress Party, which has previously raised doubts about the usefulness of the Nordic Council and has periodically proposed the closure of the Council, has taken the line of the majority. And that's just supposed to be missing. Over the 50 years of cooperation at the Nordic Council, the organisation has absolutely demonstrated its right to exist, and it has shown the will and ability to adapt to the significant changes that have also occurred in the Nordic countries in recent years. People in the Nordic region expect it to be easy to travel, live, study, get sick, etc. in another Nordic country. However, the report by Ambassador Ole Norrback shows that there is still a lot of work to be done before you can be satisfied with the Nordic everyday integration. The Committee therefore considers that further work should also be undertaken by the Norwegian side to remove border barriers between the inhabitants of the Nordic region. In particular, the Committee mentions the need to renew the Education Agreement, and calls on the Government to consider further developing the common labour market to include all Nordic residents, not just their own nationals. The Nordic Council of Ministers has adopted the «New Nordic Agenda – new strategic initiatives» with five priority areas: technological development, well-being, the internal Nordic market, cooperation with neighbouring countries and regions, as well as environment and sustainable development. This has been done, among others. to achieve greater political grounding for Nordic issues in the national parliaments. The Committee believes that these five priorities provide a good starting point for further cooperation in the Nordic region and in the neighbouring regions. Over time, Nordic cooperation has undergone major changes. After the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, cooperation has been strengthened and strengthened through close cooperation with the Baltic States and North-West Russia. The European dimension of cooperation has also gradually been strengthened. The impact of increased globalisation and the deepening of integration in Europe will increase the need for Nordic coordination, in order to strengthen Nordic influence and to promote Nordic values and interests. The enlargement of the EU and the expected entry into the Union of the Baltic countries will change the content of the neighbourhood policy. Nordic cooperation is an important channel for making Nordic views known and for promoting Nordic interests with a view to important processes in the EU. The Committee considers it important to strengthen the contacts, exchange of information and the EU-wide impact of Nordic cooperation. It is important that the increasing international element of Nordic cooperation does not lead to the depriving of traditional cooperation. Nordic cultural cooperation in a broad sense must remain the cornerstone of Nordic cooperation. In a period of economic constraints, it is important to work to ensure that the central place of culture in total Nordic cooperation is not weakened and to maintain the broad national and professional anchoring of cultural cooperation. In the message, the Government has provided a presentation of the cooperation in the Arctic Council, the Barents Council, the Baltic Council and the Western Nordic Council. This is useful and it is essential to coordinate the work of the various regional forums. There is a continuing need for coordination of neighbourhood activities. It will also be important that the EU's work on the northern dimension is based on and exploited by the activities of the regional cooperation organisations in the north. The Committee shares the Government's view that it is in the Norwegian interest to deepen and further develop cooperation within the Arctic Council in order to become a substantive and politically relevant body for Circumpolar Cooperation. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Arctic Cooperation Programme is separated from the neighbourhood programme in a separate programme for 2003. As far as the Barents region is concerned, it is undoubtedly right that the peoples of the People's Cooperation have had the greatest success, while economic cooperation has not been equally successful. The reasons for this are Russia’s difficult economic situation, bureaucratic barriers to trade and the fact that the infrastructure is built for North-South contacts. However, Russia’s economy is improving and there is an emerging optimism among Norwegian companies that have established themselves in the Barents region. This should provide a basis for increased economic cooperation. Barrier cooperation should generally be strengthened through increased project cooperation at both central and regional level. It is in place to give tribute to the Barents Secretariat, which has built up a significant contact network and also has unusually important expertise in North-West Russia. This work should be further developed. The integration efforts in Europe and the changing security structure mean that the Nordic countries have a greater share of common foreign and security policy interests. Foreign policy cooperation has been extended in recent years to include Nordic-Baltic cooperation in the so-called 8th cooperation. For Norway, the Nordic dimension of defence and security policy has become increasingly important. The Committee is pleased that several aspects of this cooperation will be strengthened, including: cooperation within Nordic Coordinated Arrangement for Military Peace Support [[Northern CAPS]] Finally, let me point out that the Ministers responsible for Sami affairs and the joint presidents of Norway, Sweden and Finland decided in 2001 to prepare a draft Nordic Convention. The Committee looks forward to work starting in 2003 and ending in 2004. I would recommend the recommendation from the committee to the decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e90	The Foreign Affairs Committee has been on a trip to the Balkans in the autumn. And if we haven't understood it before, we understand it at least now: friendship, understanding and cooperation between neighboring countries are very valuable. The Nordic Council celebrates its 50th anniversary this year, and we can look back in half a century with close and meaningful cooperation between our neighbouring countries in the Nordic region, a cooperation spanning a wide range of areas. In the last decade, an international dimension has also emerged, and the Nordic Council has established good cooperation with our neighbourhoods, in particular the Baltic countries and Russia. Nevertheless, internal Nordic cooperation remains, and must be, the core. Nordic cooperation was established to benefit the citizens of the Nordic region. There are still some challenges here. As Ambassador Ole Norrback pointed out in his report, there are still barriers to integration between the Nordic countries. This must be at the top of the agenda if Nordic cooperation is to benefit citizens in the future as well. In its unanimous opinion, the Committee considers that further work needs to be done by the Norwegian side to remove border barriers between citizens of the Nordic region. Even I have valuable experience from the Nordic Council of Ministers. Information and the exchange of ideas between governments provide inspiration, and we can do things in common, such as: the provision of key Nordic genetic resources through a joint genetic bank. I also know that in the work on equality and urban development, the Nordic countries have a lot of common values, and we can learn from each other. I would like to point out that when we talk about Nordic cooperation, we are not just talking about parliamentary cooperation or cooperation between the governments of the Nordic countries in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Rather, on the contrary, we are talking about extensive cooperation between a number of actors, and not least the voluntary organisations play a central role. This applies, inter alia, to: in the fields of culture and sport within the Nordic region. However, this also applies to the development of democracy in the Nordic neighbourhoods, where voluntary children’s and youth organisations have made a strong contribution, as the Government also points out in the Communication. This broad cooperation is a reason to recall when discussions on the usefulness of Nordic cooperation are constantly taking place. Some claim that Nordic cooperation has expired. I totally disagree with that. In a world where we see that more and more tasks need to be solved internationally and regionally, regional cooperation, as we have through the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, will continue to be important to solve many challenges. Let us see, for example: on environmental challenges, challenges exist that can only find their solution internationally and regionally. Here, the Nordic Council has played an active role. For example, a test area for the Kyoto mechanisms in the Baltic Sea region will soon be a reality. I therefore believe that the Nordic Council will be an important contributor to putting these challenges on the agenda and to taking initiatives towards each of the Nordic countries and other international bodies. In particular, I would like to highlight the important role that the Nordic Council has to play in relation to the neighbourhoods. I would like to highlight here the cooperation in the Baltic Sea region, the cooperation in the Barents region, the Arctic cooperation, and there has also been contact with British Irish Inter-Parliamentary Body. What these areas have in common is that they are all surrounded by large seas. Within the North and the North we find some of the most resource-rich marine areas in the world. But it also makes areas very vulnerable to environmental change and pollution. Environmental pollution is transported rapidly through the currents of the sea. There's one example of this not being useful with just national solutions. Here, only regional and international solutions are good enough. Therefore, it is valuable and absolutely necessary that we prioritise the work of the Nordic Council and put environmental issues on the agenda. As far as the marine environment is concerned, it is enough to address the Council. It is enough to mention the emissions from Sellafield, the situation in the Baltic Sea, the Barents Sea and increased Russian oil transport from Murmansk. These are environmental challenges on which, in my view, the Nordic Council needs to focus even more strongly. The environment is an area where solutions based on cross-border cooperation are needed. Another area is the fight against international organised crime, which I know the Council has put on the agenda on several occasions. Both of these areas show the great importance of regional cooperation in tackling challenges that do not know any borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e119	It is strongly underlined in the unanimous position of the Committee that Nordic cooperation is primarily about the everyday life of everyday people in the Nordic region. It is an important and correct reminder as far as Nordic cooperation has the most obvious justification for its existence in removing the obstacles that most people experience in cross-border relations in the Nordic region. The Norrback report is a useful review and contains a number of very practical and very everyday recommendations that it is important to follow up in the follow-up. Nevertheless, we are right this year in a situation where there may be reason to lift our eyes a little bit from the everyday and the everyday. The Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council prepared a letter entitled «Nordic ambition», entitled «A script on cooperation at the Nordic Council 1952-2002». It is a document that can be absolutely recommended for study, not least that part of the script which consists of contributions from negroes in Norwegian policy who have experienced the development of cooperation at the Nordic Council during this 50-year period. Reading their experiences, their views, and their heartaches about everything that failed is in itself an interesting study. The most important thing, however, is that by reading the writing in its context at one point you come to a very clear conclusion: everyone agrees that we have an inescapable capital in our common history in the Nordic countries, and that there are still only limited parts of the capital we have been able to make interest-bearing in practical cooperation policies. In the media, the Nordic Council has not always received a positive contribution – it is even an understatement. Very often, images are created of an inescapable bureaucracy, a huge paperwork without many practical results. I'm not going to go into any discussion about how far this criticism, which tends to be repeated every time you have the meetings of the Nordic Council, no matter what Nordic country it happens, is justified or unjustified, but just point out that if you think historically and think about alternative forms of interaction between the Nordic countries, there's a lot of talk that paper war is preferable to other types of war. If you go back no further than to the 18th century and take centuries after centuries backwards, you will find that the pattern of interaction in the Nordic region was two-three warriors every century. And then you have to say that we've made some progress in the century that's behind us, and in the century that we've just started. What makes the Nordic region have unique opportunities as a region in a region's Europe? First of all, we in the Nordic region have a unique community of languages, which is not found in the relationship between neighbouring countries elsewhere. The language barriers in the Nordic countries are so modest that in practice it is not difficult for anyone to read and understand the languages of the other Nordic countries – with the exception of Finnish, which belongs to another language family. In it there is a capital in itself, because all the practical obstacles to cooperation between the countries that are in the language barriers are eliminated. And that's probably reason to ask ourselves at the 50th anniversary why we haven't managed to make better use of this unique capital than we've done so far. All the Nordic languages are in the situation that they are under considerable pressure from the great world language, English, and the anglification of our languages is a headache in many contexts. All Nordic countries face the same problem as regards how to standardise, for example. the use of the increasing number of English words in our respective national languages. Then it's funny that we haven't been able to develop any common strategies to solve so far simple problems in common ways. There must be good reason to work together on Scandinavian languages, on how to deal with the strong influence of the dominant international language community, the English-American I said we have an inescapable historical capital that we've only begun to make interest-bearing so far. I'm going to label some areas where it's quite obvious to me that we have a lot to pick up by expanding the organized Nordic cooperation. It concerns education and research. At university level, it is clear that education provision in the Nordic region should become much more common than it is currently. It is also obvious that in the field of research cooperation, we have made a great deal of progress, not least in relation to the link between higher education and research, namely research. In the field of doctoral education, there is a lot of experience in some disciplines about what can be done by coordinating the Nordic professional environments. This means that both money resources are saved and the quality of doctoral education can be significantly increased. There are still a lot of important disciplines in this area where considerable benefits can be drawn from organised cooperation on the education of researchers in the Nordic region. With regard to the environment and what is termed "sustainable development programmes", it is also clear that we have a great deal to gain by streamlining Nordic cooperation. Not least, it concerns the part of the environmental challenge that concerns the northern areas with the very specific environmental challenges that lie there, both in our seas and in our eastern neighbourhoods. In the old Soviet period, there are challenges that could be solved much better if the Nordic countries coordinate their policies than if each country tries to deliver its small share. When it comes to cultural policy, we also have a lot of interesting challenges. In this area, we have come a long way in introducing symbolic rewards and prizes that are themselves important because they attract attention. But we have not yet been able to extract the potential benefit of these Nordic prices when it comes to getting the citizens of the Nordic countries to read each other's literature without going the way of translations. It should have been possible to stimulate interest in reading Swedish and Danish science literature in Norway, much more than we have done so far. It's to cry that we're still spending a lot of money on completely unnecessary translations. Although translations can be good, it must be assumed that reading excellent science in the original language is better than reading it in translation. If you could have channeled the resources that are currently used to translate literature back and forth between Nordic countries, into other forms of cultural activity, we could have very many interesting opportunities to stimulate cultural development in the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation has undergone major shifts. Of course, it's related to the fact that the international picture of which the Nordic region is part has changed radically over the past 50 years. The biggest change took place in 1989, when the established European order – with an iron carpet and a terror balance – suddenly disappeared and a completely new European map was before it. It may be worth remembering that, over the 13 years that have passed since 1989, the Nordic picture has also changed radically. It may well be allowed to be characterised by the Nordic countries which, in 1989 and in the past, had the least freedom of foreign policy, namely Finland, which, over the course of these 13 years, has managed to achieve the greatest freedom of foreign policy action, and in many respects the Nordic country is also the most capable of putting its mark on European development in a broader sense. There should be no grounds for envy, but there should be some reflections on how we manage our share of the common Nordic capital on our side, in Norway. In this last 10–13 year perspective, there is little evidence that Norway has been the country that has been in the lead in exploiting the Nordic potential to influence European developments in a large way. It should be a challenge for us to continue. Today, we are in the situation that what was impossible before 1989, namely that the Nordic countries could discuss foreign policy between themselves and take joint initiatives of a foreign nature, is now possible. It's really just the imagination that sets limits. One interesting reminder of this is what is said in the Communication, which is also commented on by the Committee — on the Kaliningrad area — which is one of the pillars of current European policy and is one of the really major challenges. If you're concerned about the population's problems in some parts of our neighbourhood, there's hardly any place where the population lives under more awkward conditions and has bigger problems than exactly in this enclave. There is clearly a cooperative body in the Nordic Council that can do something and that can help resolve a political group that is otherwise difficult to resolve. Similarly, in relation to many of the interaction problems we have in Norway with our neighbour in the East, Russia, which will be updated when we receive state visits from Russia in the near future. Even in most of these problems, there is a quite obvious Nordic dimension that we should be able to coordinate and exploit so that political strength is laid behind the objectives of the environmental and resource management nature that we face in the northern regions. The problems of nuclear safety in this part of Europe are also a challenge that is strikingly affecting the Nordic countries jointly, as well as affecting the international community at large. Finally, I think the student of the history of Nordic cooperation in the 50s from 1952 to 2002 has to conclude that the unused possibilities are far more than those used. The capital we haven't yet been able to make interest-bearing is far greater than the capital we've been able to make interest-bearing so far, and that's why there's reason to look forward to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e151	This Communication provides a broad review of Nordic cooperation in the various areas of 2001–02, including: The priorities of the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Government Cooperation in 2002 and the Nordic Council of Ministers’ neighbourhood programme, cooperation in the Arctic Council, the Barents Council, the Baltic Sea Council and cooperation with the Western neighbourhoods. As usual, the report of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council is also included as an annex to the Storing Communication. It is now half a century since Nordic cooperation was formalised when the Nordic Council was set up, but in the opinion of the Progress Party, the benefits are not in line with economic efforts. Since the establishment of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 1971, the Nordic Council of Ministers has also strengthened contacts and cooperation between people in the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation was strengthened and strengthened by close cooperation with the Baltic States and North-West Russia after the end of the Cold War and the dissolution of the Soviet Union. However, we believe that extensive voluntary cooperation between organisations and institutions in the Nordic region is of great importance, and the emergence of the information society is one of the most important features of the Nordic region. Cooperation on European issues does not have a formal status, but consists of informal consultations and exchange of information as necessary. It is therefore important to rationalise the large sample of so-called councils, so that it gets fewer, but with greater weight. The Progress Party agrees that cooperation in the justice sector is being developed to maximise the consistency of legislation in the Nordic countries. We also believe it is important that tax systems be better coordinated in order to promote free trade between the Nordic countries and the rest of Europe. In this respect, I believe that a reduction in Norwegian taxes is important both for Norwegian industry and the creation of new jobs, which can also help to make it interesting for Nordic co-operation countries to invest in Norway. The Progress Party believes that the Nordic Food Safety Action Plan should also open up increased trade between Nordic countries and the EU in food and agricultural products. We also believe that the Nordic countries should cooperate more closely in combating cross-border pollution. Norway has chaired the Nordic defence and security cooperation in 2002. The Progress Party believes that funding for defence in the Nordic countries is not in line with the challenges facing them and that Nordic cooperation should also include coordination in this area. We are also increasingly concerned about the spread of terrorism in the world and believe that efforts to combat terrorism should be intensified and coordinated in the Nordic countries. The Progress Party is also of the opinion that Nordic cooperation should include measures to avoid the Nordic becoming a haven for those who aim to combat democratic development in their home country, including the use of instruments that harm civilians. We are therefore of the opinion that Nordic criticism of our most important allies should be more nuanced, and that they want to protect their own citizens, whether the United States or Israel. With regard to the financing of Nordic cooperation, attention shall be paid to the granting of significant national appropriations in addition to that granted as a subsidy to the budget of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The information departments of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers were agreed after a probationary period in June 2001, and this is a step in the right direction. The Progress Party believes that cooperation between the Nordic countries is natural, and especially at government level, but the results of many years of parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council seem to be small. There is today widespread parliamentary cooperation in many other European and international organisations, such as the United Nations. Council of Europe, OSCE, NATO and IPU. The Progress Party does not want to put down Nordic cooperation, but looks at, and believes, Nordic cooperation, completely independent of the function and existence of the Nordic Council. We believe that financial costs have little or no measurable impact and that these resources should be used for more measurable measures. The demand of the Nordic Council for a large number of action proposals and reports gives relatively unclear signals on the priorities of the Council. The Party considers that there are unclear criteria for how, for example: assistance funds for environmental measures shall be allocated. This has resulted in very economically strong companies receiving Norwegian support for environmental measures that these companies could well fund themselves. We believe that the work of the various sectors in the Nordic Councils and in Nordic co-operation is consistent with the fact that these are bodies that are working to a large extent on the clear anchoring of the policies pursued in the EU. As Norway is not a member of the EU, we are faced with a situation that is on the side of the area of interest represented by the majority of Member States and which has the limitations that decisions taken involve binding political decisions that must comply with EU rules. The most fruitful Nordic cooperation takes place through the many informal contacts created via the private market in relation to trade and travel. Private organisations also have valuable cross-border contacts in the Nordic region. The same is true of our universities and colleges. The Progress Party will emphasise that it may also be of great value at government level to become acquainted with the experience of other Nordic countries and to find common solutions, not least in the case of legislation, but is, however, highly doubtful about the value of parliamentary contact. This is especially true as long as we are not a member of the EU. Experience appears to show that the other Nordic countries are not particularly keen on taking care of Norwegian interests within the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e185	One important goal of Nordic cooperation is that it becomes so concrete that the inhabitants of the Nordic region recognize themselves. For us in SV, it is particularly gratifying that it is in the environment and not least in the development of the Eco-label scheme that most people discover that there is Nordic cooperation. No matter what store, supermarket, school or home in the Nordic region, one will find the Swan brand. Previously, when Nordic prime ministers met, they had Swanmark hanging behind them. They were proud of it. They were parents, they had in a way laid that egg. A good combination of people seeing this again everywhere, made it a work on which it went on to build. The Swan brand is perhaps the most successful example of Nordic cooperation. It affects most people. The number of products selected continues to increase, and 80-90 pst. In fact, by the people of the North, they know that it exists. Nordic Eco-label has developed criteria for more than 55 areas. It goes on paper, printed matter, groceries, offices, data, construction, housing, etc. now certifying companies such as hotels, photo services and laundry. In the new year, grocery stores and reindeer services come. The Swan label requires the fulfilment of measurable requirements within the entire life cycle of the product or services, provides guidance to people and offers a competitive edge for trade and industry. One is simply inside and ‘roclar’ a bit in the market. The acceptance of this branding system is great, and the Government's strategy for sustainable development comes with the following call to public buyers – I quote: ‘The aim is for all departments to use an official environmental label on their printed paper products.’;» It is good to see that one in each country is able to follow in practice what is actually happening at the Nordic Council. Nordic Eco-labels participate in international cooperation, including: by administering the EU-flower Eco-label and by participating in the GEN Global Eco-labelling Network. Eco-labelling affects the world around the world, for example through the eco-labelling of paper from Brazil and Portugal, of textiles from Pakistan and of office machinery from Korea and Japan. Nordic Eco-labelling is first in the world to enter into an agreement with another Eco-labelling scheme on mutual recognition of eco-labelling requirements. This is done with Japan's Ecomark for product of copying machines, printers and faxes. In practice, this means that a copy machine approved according to the Ecomark environmental criterion is automatically qualified for the Swan label and that the manufacturer fails to adhere to the different requirements in the different regions and countries. Whether eco-labelling clearly states that it will increase the spread of eco-labelled products and increase the effectiveness of the impact of multinational companies. I want to point to a number of areas that I think we need to do something about if the cooperation is to be good and better. The first is that we need to become more clear about what we want. The second thing goes on with the width. I think the width of the case is formidable. I think we're going to be hugely wide. And I think it would be an advantage with the scarce resources that are leading, both human and when it comes to money, if one could sneak into something and concentrate on the most important things. Then the matters that are considered less important had to be removed. In that way, I think it is more realistic to come further into some important areas of Nordic cooperation. We need to get more of the copies of concrete results that I showed. When it comes to eco-labelling, it had to be possible to choose other areas where you would have a full implementation, instead of a half-way bet. I would have liked to have seen that the message could have discussed to a greater extent and to a lesser extent just described that it is like this, that is. a more informative message that addressed these problems, and that you might want to set things aside and get the concentration in some areas. But there are promising steps in the message, because one has got in and is working on the strategy for sustainable development, a new course for the Nordic region, which lays the foundation and framework for the work of the Council of Ministers on sustainable development. In the area by area of work, it is established that sustainable development should be at the bottom of all work. Climate change, biodiversity, marine deficiency, chemicals, organic building materials and food security are cross-sectoral bet areas. We should use Nordic cooperation to exchange ideas and experiences across borders. In particular, we should use cooperation to put work into practice and implement actions that work in one country, including in other countries. As a small, polite matter, I will name a colleague of mine in northern Sweden who of all things in the world gets NOK 1000 a year per year. ku he has – it's a farmer this, a farmer. He gets $1,000 a year from – of all places in the world – Brussels, to spend what they call the mountain cow in Sweden. This is Sidet Trønderfe. So in Sweden, there's something that's a viable agriculture, but one in Norway doesn't have the same investment. In general, SV fully supports Nordic cooperation. We just have to get better at getting results, not least so people notice it in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e214	It's said about Nordic cooperation that it's so natural for us Northers that we don't think about it every day. We have a common history, a common cultural heritage and a common language understanding that contributes to this. We take it as a matter of course that we have networks across borders, and we take it as a matter of course that this cooperation works without much formal constraints. Nordic cooperation is strong in our countries, and it is a model for other regions of Europe. What we may not be thinking about is that this cooperation is largely the result of formal agreements that the Nordic countries have agreed on. The Nordic Council has been working on this since 1952 – i.e. for 50 years – but any community needs to be further developed in order for it to function in the best possible way. We're winning by acting together, we're winning that we don't have to do the same things for each of us, and we're winning by sharing common experiences. The question is whether we're conscious of this. Are we making good use of this possibility of cooperation and sharing together? I don't think so. The Norrback report concludes that there are many remaining challenges and that more people experience that cooperation and exchanges between Nordic countries are today both difficult and difficult. There are still too many border barriers between the Nordic countries. We can, for example: still do not see a selection of our Nordic neighbours' television channels. We have a common labour market, but there are still problems here. Those who are nationals of one Nordic country but work in another have experienced major problems in relation to different levels of taxation, pensions and different social arrangements. In this context, the Foreign Affairs Committee has asked the Government to consider expanding the common Nordic labour market to include all Nordic residents, not only their own nationals. The Christian People's Party believes that this could be an important step in integrating immigrants into the labour market. We also see many problems in relation to this on the education side. Overall, the number of students and students in the Nordic region is between 5 and 6 million. The goal of Nordic cooperation is to facilitate dialogue, cooperation and exchange among the largest possible number of these children and young people to become aware that they live in the Nordic region and to be able to share common identities. Those are fine words, but this too has been difficult to follow up well enough in practice. To a small extent, education and practice are recognised in the respective neighbouring countries. It is frustrating when you have trained and worked for decades, for example. as a cook in Sweden, and you come to Norway and you don’t get this approved. There are thousands of examples showing that many of the agreements need to be improved if they are to gain value in practical life. In the light of this Foreign Affairs Committee, the Government should continue its efforts to renew the Nordic agreements, in particular with regard to training agreements, in order to facilitate student exchanges and the recognition of education. Here we have also referred to decisions in the Stortinget, taken on 14 June this year, on precisely this. The agreements reached must be followed up. Only then will we get concrete results. The goal of a borderless Nordic requires continuous searchlights on such questions. As I said at the outset, we're winning to stand together in the Nordic region. I am thinking not least in the EEA and EU context. Here, Nordic cooperation is a platform for safeguarding common Nordic interests. The Christian People’s Party therefore underlines the importance of continuing to focus on information exchange and issues related to EU and EEA issues. We may be small countries on the outskirts of Europe, but together we can do a lot and get our policies implemented. It is valuable that there are forums where Nordic politicians can discuss background issues of common interest for countries that have a lot in common, where solutions are complex and not always clear. I would also like to underline the efforts made in relation to our neighbourhoods, particularly Russia. It is important to have a common Nordic perspective on poverty and measures that can improve the living conditions of poor children and their families. Children’s and youth work has a clear neighbourhood dimension, and efforts are directed towards children’s and young people’s living conditions and health in North-West Russia and the Baltic region. They are struggling with a large number of street children, increasing suicide rates among young people, more seeking extreme organisations in fascist and Nazi environments, and there is increasing prostitution and HIV infection among children. Despite violent and depressing problems for Russian children, the Russian will to do something about the problems is great. It is therefore reasonable and right for the Nordic countries to assist Russia in this. We can also learn some of that commitment and the will the Russians point to creating a better society. I also hope that the Nordic Council can contribute to strengthening cooperation across the Nordic/Baltic region. Together, we can achieve more on one of the main challenges we face, namely environmental problems, which are the result of pollution across borders. Work to stop radioactive discharges from Sellafield, and also LeHague in France, is a very important task. It may be that we have to get past the stage where we focus on recommendations and calls alone, so that we have to get a system where there are penalties to pollute across borders. Perhaps the Nordic Council and the Nordic/Baltic region can help to promote such ideas internationally. Finally, I would like to stress that although there is still a lot to be done in the follow-up to agreements and there are several challenges to Nordic cooperation, much has been achieved. Although it may seem to be slow progress, the importance of small steps of cooperation should not be underestimated. If you start to doubt this, at the same time, you weaken the popular cultural and political network that has great significance as it works today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e240	We are now debating case No. 1 and this is about the Nordic Council in the future. Nordic cooperation is strongly characterised today by the fact that the Nordic countries have an extra-parliamentary and parliamentary relationship with the EU. The EU is increasingly developing a common policy in different areas. This means that the EU will increasingly shape policy in the Nordic EU countries, Denmark, Sweden and Finland. The possibility of implementing a common Nordic policy that is consistent with EU policies is reduced accordingly. What are the consequences of this development for the non-EU Nordic countries, namely the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway? Today, the Faroe Islands and Greenland have a system of home government with Denmark. New policy areas are still being transferred from the Danish authorities to Faroese and Greenlandic home government. It is likely that this development will speed up further. If Denmark weakens its foreign policy in the EU, there is a danger that the EU will gain increased power in the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. Both countries have said no to EU membership, among others. because they will not leave the management of huge natural resources to the EU. Iceland and Norway are linked to the EU through the EEA Agreement, which will affect an increasing number of societal areas. However, the agreement does not cover the strategically important fisheries management where Iceland and Norway want national law. Despite different regional cooperation arrangements in the Western Nordic regions, this cooperation is increasingly marginalised purely politically. The coastal party therefore believes that it is time for more formalised cooperation between the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland and Norway both at parliamentary level and at government level. These coastal countries have strong common interests in many areas, in particular with regard to ensuring possible control of the huge natural resources of Norwegian seas. The Coastal Party has proposed that the Stortinget should apply for membership of the Western Norse Council. The National Assembly of the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland are present. The result of the deliberation was that Norwegian parliamentarians, through informal contacts at the Nordic Council, would try to influence an invitation from the Western Nordic Council to become a member of the organisation. So far, there is little evidence that something effective has been done in this matter. The coastal party will follow up the matter to the best of its ability. In addition, the Coastal Party will propose that the Norwegian Government take the initiative of formal cooperation between Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Norway at government level. Perhaps we could set up a Western Norse Council of Ministers. It is time that we also take into account in the Nordic context the consequences of the situation that has arisen with a common foreign policy in the EU. I also believe that Norway should join the Western Norwegian Council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e255	I can reassure the representative Bastesen that a much closer cooperation with the Western Nordic Council has already been initiated. It's actually been dealt with in the Presidency recently, so I think the trouble of Bastisen can turn to relief and perhaps also to expectation of what this cooperation can bring on. I very much agree with everyone who has spoken so far in the debate, and I must also say that I think it was a good and reflected contribution that the representative Inge Wohnning made. In relation to the SV's representative, we have to concentrate more on the work in the Nordic Council, I would like to say that I believe that all the parties actually agree. But I just want to show you what we're facing. The budget for the Nordic Council is 780 million. Danish kr. Of this budget, 40 is pst. tied up to giving money to the Nordic institutions that we have. In addition, there are 800 projects that receive their allocation of these 780 million. Danish kr. Firstly, we have a small overview of what these 800 projects actually are – and we have to get that in order to concentrate the work more, which I agree with. Secondly, we also need to take into account that the Nordic Council budget should perhaps be extended somewhat. But when five countries work together, it's the least that will win. And even though Norway has had several intentions to increase the Nordic budget, we have a couple of Swedish colleagues and also some Danish, who have not fully agreed. But I think it's important to be aware that there's a lot of Nordic cooperation that we don't think about. Business, for example, cooperates on a cross-border basis every day. Sports do it, cultural life does it, and there are very many of the volunteer organizations that have close cross-border cooperation. And now that we're 50 years old, there's every reason to stress that this has been a unique collaboration. In fact, 24 million people have cooperated well for so many years. There are no other areas in the world that can point to the spouse. Then there are several people who have been inside the boundless North. Then I just want to give some examples – because most people, and perhaps especially we politicians, think that moving between Nordic countries is completely trouble-free, because it is a free labour market, a free study market, and that you can basically live anywhere. But here are some examples: 40,000 people move or commute between the Nordic countries each year, and 250,000 people with Nordic citizenship have lived in another Nordic country in 2000, which is the last year we have an overview. But the list of everyday problems, i.e. what I call every man's problems, is quite comprehensive. It includes, for example: Northern residents who live in Sweden and work in Denmark. Here both countries claim the tax. Another problem is the transport of cross-border medicines. An ambulance can't cross a border with morphine in the car. Furthermore, a find that has undergone a crane driving course and has received papers on it in Sweden does not get a job in Finland. A Swedish person, as mentioned here, with cooking education from Sweden and 26 years of professional experience is not allowed to do so in Norway. And a Swedish who lives in Sweden, but works in Denmark, according to Danish law, will pay taxes to the Danish municipality where he works, but according to Swedish law he will pay taxes to the municipality in which he lives. It goes without saying that it can be quite significant. These are just a few examples – the list of border barriers between our Nordic countries is very long. If we don't manage to deal with everyone's problems, I think Nordic cooperation will get a bit unfortunate. The second track that I think we have to work even more closely with is to see Nordic cooperation as part of a greater cooperation in our part of the world. Europe looks completely different now than it was 50 years ago. The Council was established in 1952. It was actually the same year that the European Coal and Steel Community – with six countries – entered into force. That was the beginning of the extensive cooperation we see today in the European Union. Now the EU is facing its largest expansion ever — with ten new countries. So it could be 25 countries. Then I think it's time the Nordic Council tried to find its place in what I call regionalised Europe. It's a major challenge that we have to face, as well as solving everyone's problems. I believe that Nordic cooperation can have a much heavier regional policy role, but it requires that we act much more clearly as a platform for initiative and action on issues where the Nordic countries jointly want to influence the European and international agenda. Now Göran Persson, the prime minister of Sweden, has just said that the Nordics should try to act with one voice. Experience from what has happened in the EU system shows that this is not the case constantly, but I think it is a challenge for the Nordic Council to take: to see if we from the Nordic countries can act with one voice. There's a lot to say about Nordic cooperation. Most of it has been said by previous speakers, so I just want to finish by saying that we are now, hopefully, going into 50 new years of Nordic cooperation. Then it's important that we take a look back at what we've achieved, and we're also a little proud of it. But even more important is looking forward and investing even more in those areas where we haven't come to goals. Only in this way will we guarantee legitimacy for Nordic cooperation. This cooperation is also far wider than merely parliamentary cooperation and cooperation between the governments of the Nordic countries. There is widespread cross-border cultural exchange and, above all, voluntary organisations play a particularly important role. These organisations are, through their work, bearers of our common cultural heritage and our common Nordic identity. In order to maintain Nordic cooperation in the future, these organisations will be able to play an even more important role than they have now. So next week we're going to celebrate the 50th anniversary, but it's set of two whole days for political debate, where 50 things are going to be dealt with, small and big enough, but important things for the Nordics.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e274	The case rapporteur and later speakers as well as the committee's position confirm a broad, cross-political breakdown of Nordic cooperation. In the past year, the government and the Stortinge may look back on good cooperation on common goals and priorities, which, as the representative Inge Wohnung said, to the seventh and last is about everyday problems and everyday people in the Nordic region. There is also every reason to stress what the last speaker, the representative Brørby, said: Nordic cooperation takes place at many levels, even outside the political sphere. Every man, business and organization work together every day," said the representative of Brørby, and I fully agree with that. Fortunately, the small identity crisis of Nordic cooperation after the end of the Cold War belongs in the history books. Cooperation has found new forms and new issues, and it shows adaptability in a new era. Our surroundings are in constant and often dramatic change. New challenges lie ahead in the Nordic countries, in the neighbourhoods, in the Arctic regions, in Europe and globally. In all these contexts, Nordic cooperation has played an important role. In this way, I agree with the representative of Eyeågen, who, by reference to the Balkans, believes that Nordic cooperation models and values have transfer value to other regions of Europe as well. The Nordic countries definitely have a special and close community. It gives us a lot of value, but it also commits, and it's a commitment we take. I also welcome this commitment in the next few years, after we have celebrated the anniversary. That is why, as Minister of Cooperation, I spent a lot of time and work in the Norwegian Presidency of the Government Cooperation this year as head of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The work has been a source of great pleasure. We have taken the community further, built on it and strengthened it through an active presidency during the program we call Tomorrow's Nordics. Both the government and the stockpiling have been active, which is the subject of the bid submitted. We've managed to track down. The three main areas of the Presidency, children and youth, food security and sustainable development have received broad political and administrative attention and increased funding in Nordic cooperation this year. Here, both the Government and the Nordic Council Delegation in the United Kingdom have cooperated well and brought policy into the Nordic cooperation bodies, whether at parliamentary level, at government level or at party level. In line with the Norwegian Presidency Programme, the Presidency has taken an initiative to strengthen cross-sectoral Nordic cooperation on children and young people and held a ministerial meeting in August in which cooperation, responsibility and priority in further Nordic cooperation were discussed. Fortunately, it was a good start on this conference, and it is worth noting that there were actually 13 Nordic ministers who attended. Even more important, it may be to stress that several of the young people who participated said, ‘Nothing about us without us’. I think that's pretty clear about a Nordic commitment among the kids. It also promises well for the future, both in terms of commitment and participation. The themes included measures against violence and bullying, combating racism and intolerance. We must combat racism and xenophobia also in a Nordic context, so that all children and young people can develop a secure identity in a multicultural Nordic. Here lies one of our main common challenges across borders. We are facing a major task in our countries and in Nordic cooperation: to show our children and young people the basis on which we build our societies, and to establish that the different cultures and ethnic differences will meet with respect in the Nordic countries. We have also set a special focus on the health and living conditions of children and young people in the Nordic neighbourhoods – such as Rise. were involved in — and contributed to a stronger and more coherent response to these groups. We have prioritised infectious diseases protection, preventive health care measures, measures for disabled children and measures for children under public care. In the food sector, we deployed resources to develop and adopt a common Nordic action plan on food security in the Nordic region. We've made that clear. The Nordic region needs to pool and coordinate its forces in order to bring the Nordic region through international forums to define food security criteria and standards and to ensure that consumers’ interests are taken into account. The follow-up to the Nordic strategy for sustainable development has also been important during the Norwegian Presidency, and the Nordic experiences of this work were valuable joint contributions at the UN Summit in Johannesburg, including: Minister for Environment Børge Brende can measure Nordic positions and solutions. I am convinced that the Nordic example can contribute to a better basis for increased and committed regional international cooperation in this area, including in the EU. I also note the interesting views of Mr. Bjørn Jakobsen on environmental cooperation, issues and future cooperation projects in this sector, and I take this into account in the further work. In addition, the Norwegian Presidency has ensured that the cooperation of the Council of Ministers in the West-Nordic region and the neighbouring countries and regions of the West-Nordic region is now subject to a systematic and strategic review, primarily to give a political boost to cooperation, as the representative Bastisen also called for. I am referring to the fact that the representative, Mr Brørby, confirmed that the Bureau of the Nordic Council is also involved in this and has taken the necessary initiatives. In this way I think it has been followed up in a reassuring way, and we will see results in the coming years. Norway has also stressed the need to strengthen cooperation with voluntary organisations, and let me mention a very topical issue. In recent days, the Nordic Association, the Nordic Association, Norli bookstore and others have put Nordic cooperation and culture on the agenda, with Nordic days and a lot of partyivitas in Oslo and in other parts of the country. Once again we see that non-governmental organisations are glues to the popular Nordic commitment, and that's good. We will present a research report on immigrant associations later in the autumn and will hold a conference on the role of organisations in integration in society – once again, voluntary cooperation is put high on the Nordic agenda. For the Nordic Council next week, the Nordic Council of Ministers will present eight proposals to the Council of Ministers. Two of these relate to the follow-up to the so-called Norrback report on the rights of the northern inhabitants – or perhaps to the lack of everyday integration for everyone, as has been said – in all the Nordic countries and Nordic border barriers in general. The report was presented in April 2002, keeping a high pace. Both for the Council of Ministers and for the Nordic Council, it is important to show that in the anniversary year, we are willing to and able to take steps that will lead us into better everyday integration than we have done so far. We have put great emphasis on this work, because the inhabitants of our countries expect to travel, live, study, treat, etc. in another Nordic country shall be simple. Through the follow-up to this report, Nordic cooperation in many ways returns to its original mission to make life easier for Nordic everyday people. This return to the people of Nordic cooperation is very positive, but due to real political disagreement between the Nordic countries and the need for Nordic consensus, it will require continuous follow-up. We're not going to finish that either this year or next year. During the period 2002–04, we will propose measures on the dissemination of knowledge, information, strengthening and simplification of the Nordic agreements and Nordic legislative harmonisation. As a direct follow-up to the Norrback report, the Council of Ministers has taken the initiative to strengthen the ‘Hello Norden’ service. Once again, we see the benefits of cooperation between the authorities and voluntary organisations. The information efforts towards national authorities, which deal in particular with mobility problems between Nordic countries, will be deployed from several points of view, and the Council of Ministers will finance seminars for civil servants in all Nordic countries, in particular on mobility challenges, the Nordic agreements and the offer of ‘Hallo Norden’. The work will also include the sectoral Councils concerned, which will have a broad review of key agreements. The Ministers for Cooperation will take the initiative next week at the meeting in Helsinki with the sectoral councils concerned in a systematic work on Nordic legislative harmonisation issues in 2003. The session also includes concrete proposals for measures to improve the situation of people with disabilities when travelling and moving within the Nordic region. Ten concrete actions are invited by the Nordic Council to close up, and once again we see that voluntary involvement in investigations brings Nordic benefits in terms of results, this time the report "Free movement of all – barriers to the mobility of people with disabilities in the Nordic region". This is a promising start to a continuous and long-term process to reduce border barriers between Nordic countries. I would like to mention that Sweden is expected to make integration at all levels mainly in its Nordic Presidency next year. There is therefore also reason to expect continuity in Nordic everyday integration work. Of course, the government places emphasis on the relationship with the parliamentarians of the Nordic Council. The Council of Ministers and the Council are two sides of the same case — the cultural community as the basis for joint action. We need each other to create political dynamics. I think we have succeeded in improving the dialogue between the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers. Between the Government and the Delegate in Stortinget, the dialog is very good. We're going to drive good things forward. Good dialogue can improve the substance of cooperation. The Committee's comment on a stronger priority and a more focused dialogue between the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council I can only join. In recent years, the Council of Ministers has dealt with 80–90 recommendations each year, with a large number of proposals for action. The Nordic Council's exposure is a positive driver of Nordic government cooperation, the number of action proposals and reporting requirements is large and wide. The challenge is to get a more focused dialogue to contribute to an even better dialogue. The Committee stresses the importance of involving Kaliningrad more closely in the area cooperation. I can just join in. The Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers have worked long and hard to establish a Nordic information hub in Kaliningrad. We will continue these efforts towards Russia. It will be of great importance for Nordic cooperation to be able to contribute to the many challenges Kaliningrad and the individuals facing in the years ahead. Area action as expressed in the budget of the Council of Ministers is relatively large and has been increasing. If we add up to 20 pst. of our common Nordic budget go to cooperation measures outside the Nordic region. This is a concrete example of the fact that old Nordic cooperation has gained a new dimension in the course of political development, which in turn confirms that through Nordic cooperation we have achieved beyond what each of us would have achieved in the integration process in Eastern Europe and in the Baltic region. The Committee urges the Government to continue its work on renewing the Nordic agreements, in particular on training agreements to facilitate student exchanges and the recognition of education, and refers to the Stortinge Decision No. 408 of 14 June 2002 on this subject. I can inform you at this point that, in the context of the follow-up to the Norrback report, the Council of Ministers has already launched an evaluation of all conventions and agreements in the field of education. Furthermore, at the next week's session of the Nordic Council, we will present a proposal for a development plan for the Nordic Council of Ministers' mobility and support programmes in the field of education. Mobility and support schemes are currently an important instrument for Nordic cooperation, reflecting that around 15,000 citizens in the Nordic countries and neighbourhoods participate in the programmes each year. The budget for support and mobility schemes in the Nordic region in the field of education is close to 80 million. DKK this year and covers from primary to adult education. These arrangements are important policy instruments to promote, inter alia, community of culture, language and value, knowledge, competence and lifelong learning. Parliamentary Nordic cooperation can this year look back on 50 years of work, and it is added to, as has already been said, a solemn anniversary session next week, in addition to two working days on many and important issues. Over these 50 years, there have been many successful results and a few setbacks. The anniversary will give us a good opportunity to consolidate the image of good and useful Nordic cooperation, and we should stress that this is also being brought out to the public. Nordic cooperation will continue to be relevant, interesting and useful for the Nordic countries, and for the benefit of those living in the Nordic countries and our neighbourhoods. I initially said that one of the most important Nordic challenges was to make young people aware of the value on which we build our Nordic societies, and to create understanding and respect for the different cultures and ethnic inequalities we are increasingly finding in the Nordic countries. Safe identity in a multicultural Nordic region is the basis for combating racism and intolerance. If I should then be allowed, just as an anniversary wish, to mention another important matter, I would like to borrow words from the festivities that the Swedish Parliament's delegation to the Nordic Council has been awarded, and which are a useful and informative document both for the past and for the future. Former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch writes: ‘The Council’s efforts to deepen the Nordic cultural community have also been and are correct. But in one area, there is cause for disappointment. Not even the rhetoric of the Nordic Council seems to have contributed anything to preventing the Nordic languages from slipping apart instead of approaching each other.’ This was also the representative of Inge Wohnning. In this area, too, we need strong Nordic involvement within and outside Stortinget, not least there is a current issue in the anniversary year both for the Nordic Council and for the Nordic Council Literature Prize. It also clearly illustrates that a lot has been done, but a lot remains. Therefore, there is also a strong need for the Nordic community and cooperation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e334	I would also like to join those representatives who have spoken positively about cooperation at the Nordic Council for 50 years. We still have many challenges to deal with. We're going to work for the individual, we're going to make life safer and easier for the citizens of the Nordic region. There's a lot of things to do, and I want to focus on a couple of the areas that I work on in the Nordic Council. This applies, inter alia, to: some of the weakest among us. In recent years, we have seen a gradual increase in the number of prostitutes from Eastern Europe coming to the Nordic countries and Norway. Activities are organised to a greater extent than in the past, with Norwegian and foreign backers making the most of women. We've also seen with great concern that the girls who are coming are getting younger and younger. The same networks and backers that engage in this trade with women are also often involved in other organised criminal activities, such as: alcohol and drug trafficking. Overall, this is an enterprise that brings great profit to the behinders involved. It is important that we, as politicians, do our utmost to stop this criminal activity and these systematic violations of human rights and human dignity. The Nordic Council now has two proposals aimed at improving this situation. One is to improve cooperation between the Nordic police authorities. If we are to be able to combat crime, international cooperation is required, and there is good cooperation at European level. But I see it as very important to have good cooperation between the police in the Nordic region. It will include, among others: proposed to establish a joint special training for police. In this way, we will be able to jointly increase the competence and cooperation to combat new forms of crime and organised cross-border crime. This is easier to achieve in Nordic countries, where there is a similar value base and basis for the exercise of police authority. The second proposal targets women who are exposed to trafficking and prostitution. Poverty drives many of these girls into prostitution. That's why it's important that we try to make things easier for the girls to handle themselves where they live. I am very proud that our committee proposes to set up a scheme of loan schemes and training programmes specifically aimed at women in the Baltic States and Norway. The purpose of this scheme is to help women to create their own alternative jobs separately and other women. In this way, women themselves can create a secure future for themselves and their families. Part of this proposal is directed at the Nordic authorities, pointing to the need for protection of women who have been exposed to trafficking. Women who have been sold as sex slaves may be at risk of life if they try to break out of the environment. We need to be ready to help these women get out of this environment and into a safe environment, where they can also have opportunities for the future. This is important to us who are working with the Nordic. We have to deal with these issues, and we have to secure the everyday life of these women.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e352	Based on one year's experience from the work of the Nordic Council, I am positively surprised by the drive and the willingness to strengthen and expand Nordic cooperation. The Nordic Community feeling is strong, and Ole Norrback’s report entitled ‘The Rights of the North’ has speeded up efforts to facilitate wider Nordic cooperation. Norrback's report has shown that there are enough tasks to tackle to remove obstacles to cooperation. And I am very pleased that the Council of Ministers has now strongly stressed that the Nordic governments will report annually on how the Nordic Council recommendations have been followed up in each country. It should not be underestimated that, at times, the follow-up rate in each country is very difficult to identify with regard to the recommendations made. I therefore assume that we now take national responsibility for follow-up and reporting and thus contribute to a greater understanding of the progress of Nordic cooperation. As a member of the welfare committee, I will briefly mention some of the issues that we are currently working on there. In the last ten years, telemedicine in various forms has become an increasingly central part of health provision in all Nordic countries. The welfare committee has seized this and held a seminar, and the Nordic Council has been asked to provide financial support to the National Telemedicine Centre in Tromsø, which will investigate and propose solutions to legal obstacles to telemedicine across borders in the Nordic region. I note and am pleased that Norway is in the driver's seat. There is no doubt that this will benefit the research community in Tromsø and Norden. The problem of drugs has long been on the agenda of the Nordic Council. Several recommendations lie within the system. The welfare committee is now taking the time to clean up previous recommendations and launch a new offensive in the field of drug policy. In order to obtain the best possible results, the Committee will organise consultations and seminars in cooperation with other committees in order to identify areas where the best use of the north-east Atlantic can be achieved. The aim is to bring together the threads of a new committee proposal to combat drugs in the Nordic region. A main theme of the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council is the growing-up conditions of children and young people in the Nordic region. In addition to what our Minister for Cooperation has already stressed, the welfare committee has taken up the thread and set up a working group for children and young people who have started an exciting work to identify and propose measures to strengthen the growth situation of children and young people in the Nordic countries, the Baltic States and North-West Russia. The social conditions for children and young people in Greenland should also be given special attention, on the basis of a proposal already under consideration in the Nordic Council. Social and health issues, racism and xenophobia, children and young people's participation, crime and drug problems are areas on which this group should focus. The Group shall submit proposals for a priority action plan for children and young people in the Nordic region by June 2004. Finally, the creation of the information phone «Hello Norden» has been a success. Here we have got a channel where Nordic citizens get their cross-border problems lifted. And no less important: Nordic politicians are presented with challenges for Nordic cooperation in the future – and the challenges are in line. Nordic citizens have great expectations that border barriers will be solved, and in this way it is the Christian People's Party's wish that the 50th anniversary should also mark the start of enhanced Nordic cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e367	Nordic cooperation for 50 years has shown that this cooperation has been both necessary and correct. We have a great potential in our natural resources and in the knowledge our citizens have. The challenge is to unlock that potential, and it requires both political dialogue and concrete cooperation. The role of parliamentarians in Nordic cooperation is to set objectives and visions. Here we can all contribute. The government’s communication cannot be said to have the big vision, nor does it call for concentration in some areas. This is a necessary and realistic reminder. The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is also followed up by this line. However, I should have liked to focus a little more on the future challenges of Nordic cooperation. Let me just point to three main challenges: Firstly, the Nordic Council should have the ambition to become the political instrument of this region in European policy, especially within an enlarged EU. Here I share the views of the representative of Brørby. In the Europe of the Regions, the Nordic region will be a natural region. In this way, we must strengthen political dialogue at government level and also among the parliamentarians in the Nordic countries and in the European Parliament. The dialogue must clarify what we can do jointly and at regional level and how we are to safeguard common interests in European policies, and the Nordic perspective must be integrated and clarified into national policies. Secondly, we need to focus on the internal frontier barriers. We want to be a common working region and have increased public contact. Therefore, it is necessary to focus on everyday integration. Let me just point to three challenges: We need increased legal harmonisation to avoid new frontier barriers. We therefore need information about the laws of the other Nordic countries, but proposals for new laws in our own country need to be assessed consistently with our neighbouring countries.The Nordic agreements must include the new northern residents who have been granted residence in our country. Today these are excluded because they only apply to those with Nordic citizenship. This is particularly important for a common labour market.Training agreements require modernisation. Here I am very pleased with what the Council of State said in its statement. It is good that the work is in progress. The third main challenge, I believe, is increased dialogue with our neighbourhoods. Here we must have a dialogue with North-West Russia. These neighbourhoods are important because we have common challenges related, inter alia, to: environment and health. But also people for people-to-people cooperation are important to increase their understanding of cooperation and find common strategies. We also have common sea-related challenges in the West of the North. Environment, resource management and marine and coastal life forms are key in this context. Finally, we need to address the main challenges, because Nordic societies are changing. This requires cooperation. If we succeed, will we be able to further develop our Nordic welfare model and finance it? Can we manage our natural resources in a sustainable way? And can we integrate our new northern residents? We have experience with different cultural expressions in the Nordic region. Only with an acceptance of the inequality can we succeed with integration. The fight against everyday racism must be waged every day, and we can do so by drawing out the good examples of good integration, for example. through a common knowledge base. This is how we can continue Nordic values in terms of human dignity, human rights and democratic governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e399	The left is not represented in the Foreign Affairs Committee. There has been a broad consensus on the matter. Nevertheless, I think it is right to mention one thing that has not been put very much spotlight on either in the debate or in the setting, with the exception of the Council of State. In his presidency, the government chose to focus on children and young people as one of its main bets. Nordic cooperation takes place at many levels and Nordic youth cooperation in this relationship must not be forgotten. You shouldn't have too much focus on talking about youth, you should also talk to youth. If Nordic cooperation is to survive, we need to remember the special position of the Nordic region in terms of volunteering and youth participation. It is important that participation in Nordic cooperation does not symbolize the age of the body. Young people need to get involved, young people need to feel that Nordic issues are exciting, and here are, for example, The Nordic Council of Youth an important forum. The Nordic Council of Youth is the forum that ensures future engagement on Nordic issues. I don't think there is any body that has created as many Nordics as that body. Contact with sister parties has led to a Nordic approach on political issues that has been very important for the development of Nordic cooperation. It's about understanding the Nordic differences, it's about the charm of the Nordic differences and political commitment to seeing Nordic solutions. My comment here today is that I have probably missed the vital focus of young people also getting involved in Nordic work, and that it is actually the youth who is involved and ensures future Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e406	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 295]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e421	The representatives of Haga, Skjälaaen and Sollied Överaas propose in Document No. 8:143 the establishment of a national test of cooperation between schools and sports teams on the provision of daily physical activity to all primary school students. The proposers indicate that there is a strong increase in lifestyle diseases in the population and the relationship between physical activity and health. The proposers further point out that the basis for good habits and good health is being laid early in life. It is also recorded that today's 10-year-olds are sitting at school and in front of the computer and television on average 10 hours per day. day(s) From this point of view, the proposers believe that the school should cooperate with non-governmental organisations in order to gain more physical activity among children and young people. Trials are taking place both in Buskerud and Nordland. The idea is derived from the Swedish Bunkeflo model, where 900 schools form part of a network, and where the authorities plan to make the model nationwide. In Northern Ireland, the project is adapted to the age group of 13 to 19 years, while in Buskerud the project aims to provide children and young people between 3 and 16 years of age with at least one hour of physical activity/play daily. The Committee shares the concern expressed in the document on health problems due to lack of physical activity. This concerns many bodies and the Committee refers to the notified communication on public health, which inter alia: The challenges of physical inactivity among children and young people and the role of the school in this respect shall be addressed. The Committee is also associated with recalling that the parents are principals and therefore have a responsibility with the school for the physical health of children. The Committee has shared its views on the matter. A minority, the representatives of the SV and the Central Party, support the proposal by the proposers, and I believe that the minority itself will argue for its view. The other members of the Committee therefore share the concerns expressed in the proposal but consider that there are several reasons why they cannot support it. A change in hours and content of one of the subjects in primary school will affect the other subjects and work areas of the school. This is therefore a comprehensive proposal that affects the structure and content of the entire school. The appointed quality committee shall assess this whole area of activity. The selection shall give its opinion in the spring of 2003. The majority refers to this sample. The majority of the Committee also considers that the regional trials launched in 2001 which are therefore within its second year of a four-year period should be evaluated and demonstrated that they have demonstrated an impact before being launched as national projects. The majority of the Committee therefore expresses its support for the intention of the proposal, but this should be further investigated by the Government. The majority further point to the fact that sport is based on voluntary efforts. This means that sport must decide for itself whether they want to be part of this type of work. Here it can mean a great deal of freeing sportsmen and trainers, people who today carry out their leadership tasks in the afternoon and in the evening. It is also important that this work, like all work at school, takes place on the premises of the school and has a pedagogical foundation. In further consideration of the proposal, a Norwegian model should also be considered. In any case, sport should be one of the precursors for the development of the model and how it is to be implemented. However, other premises providers must and should also be involved. I would like to mention specifically the Landslag Physical Fostring in School, an organization that has body training teachers as members, and that should have many fruitful and interesting ideas for developing a model for increased physical activity. I would also refer to the Committee's comments and to the Committee's recommendation that the document be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e447	Proposalers point to an important problem, i.e. the increase in lifestyle diseases in the population and the need for cooperation between schools and sports teams to allow all the elephants in the basic school to engage in physical activity. It is in childhood and growing up that the basis for good health is laid, and here, of course, the school stands in a central position. We have recently received an image of this through several media lookups. In addition, the Norwegian Sports Association has stated that the growing genus can become a generation in physical decay. The background to this claim is an investigation carried out by the Norwegian Sports Association and the Norwegian Olympic Committee. Children and young people run away from sport, and more parents than ever do not care about children’s physical birth. These are strong words, but still important to be observant. In addition, the Norwegian Sports Association claims that children are being delayed from going to school. They think that this is due to a lack of skills in adding them, and that few of them add within the SFO know what to do to stimulate the children to physical activity. These are also strong words. If we compare this with the government cut in favour of the 2003 SFO, it'll be even more dramatic. But of course we shouldn't talk about that today! I therefore share the concerns of the proposers, and the question is what we can do about this. The Labour Party believes that this is a broad and complex problem that comes with too many instances. We support the intention of the proposal, but believe that the proposal should be further elaborated by the Government, so that we can develop a model that is as good as possible, in order to improve the physical activity of the people with the school as an instrument. We would therefore expect the government to come back with other things. message about physical health and further quality selection settings. The proposers refer to Buskerud and to the Bunkeflo model. School/ sport cooperation is not unknown in Norway. Several municipalities operate such cooperation projects according to the Swedish model. And the results in Sweden can seem encouraging. If this is to be put into practice centrally, it is important that we have this effect documented. It is also important to remember when talking about cooperation between the sport movement and the school, that sport is based on voluntary action. This means that, in addition to such work on the premises of the school, it must also be done on the premises of the sport. You must decide if you want to be in this type of work. The proposal under consideration today may involve a great deal of work. the free purchase of sports instructors and trainers, who carry out their leadership and training tasks to a large extent in the afternoon and in the evening. In such a context, it is also important for the Ministry of Further Work to ensure that sport is one of the precursors of the development of the model and how it is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e466	The matter shall be annexed to the minutes. I have experienced this in the past, as a politician in the local environment, and I think I see the smile on the rapporteur when he is sent over the proposals of the Progress Party with the Minutes. We really know what this means: the thing is put aside and really is out of the world. My opinion is that this theme deserves a much better fate than that it is added aside and forgotten. I'm going to be careful to suggest other forms of debate, but perhaps this had been a topic that had fit like an interpellation. And I had hoped that the media had cared so much that the press release had actually been full of people who noted diligently when this topic was debated. I fully support the rapporteur's presentation. He presented this in a balanced way. We in the Progress Party see the importance of driving with physical birth. We're worried about the kids and the kids who stay at home, who may be hiding both at school and after school with a computer — perhaps in a dark room. I actually see more kids and young people now who are pale even after a hot summer that this year, because they've gone for the curtains to run these computer games as much as possible. This is something I'm glad the politicians are concerned about, and we need to focus on the problems, as it is done here. What is also important is that we are aware that it is the parents who have to follow up their children. They are still responsible for this. The municipalities are responsible for what is happening at school, and I think it is a little suspicious when Stortinget – without suggesting any financial consequences – tries to dictate to the municipalities how to do this work. The interaction between school and sports organisations is important. I want to take this with me in my work in the community. And I also hope that the media, local politicians, school people and municipalities can join forces in a joint effort to counter exactly what the proposers here have addressed and focused on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e477	«Leave the lift standing. It's better to go," said all the lifts here in Stortinget some time ago. Now it says, "Don't let go" a. Use the stairs!’ The so-called ‘Gang Team’ has a campaign going on to get us to be more physically active. No one should doubt that it will pay off in the long run. But it can be very pleasant to get involved in the still society. Therefore, the matter that is raised today, about more physical activity, is important. Inactivity is increasingly shifting downwards in the classes of the year, and there have been repeated calls for caution against obesity and ill health. The growth of children and young people is at risk, for example: because of over-protection, driving to school, activity under adult control rather than self-guided play, and they are passive because of TV, video and data. This will take various forms, both for physical and mental health. I would therefore like to point out the responsibility of the parents. When teachers tell about the days when children come without clothes and footwear that are suitable for outdoors, this also says something about attitudes at home. Of course, the organisation of free development areas will be of great importance. Christian People’s Party also wants several hours of physical exercise at school. We therefore await the work of the Quality Committee on this subject too, because they have the task of assessing the content, quality and organisation of primary and secondary schools in a comprehensive way. Of course, we will relate to the answers the Quality Committee comes up with, but we also expect to see the need for increased physical activity too large and too small. The committee will be able to assess the experience gained in various projects under way before launching a national project, which has been proposed. Several hours of one subject will necessarily do something about the number of hours in other subjects. Work done at school must have a pedagogical anchor. The country of Physical Education in School is, as mentioned earlier by the case-rapporteur, a stakeholder organisation specifically for physical training teachers with the aim of improving the conditions for exercise and sports in school. Work to strengthen the physical activity of the school includes both the subject's physical training and the games and sports that take place under the school's direction. Therefore, this organisation is seeking cooperation with other relevant organisations that activise children and young people in school and leisure. I hope that this organisation will also be involved in the work that needs to be done further in this area. Over the last few generations, children’s play has been moved indoors. Several children are physically inactive, and the gap between active and passive children is increasing. When we know that a quarter of Norwegian children spend more than four hours each day in front of computer and TV screens, something has to be done to facilitate physical activity in school. The school itself has to get on the track here, although it is primarily the families that can do something about this. So this proposal is basically a good one. That is why it has also been addressed in several attempts already. Later in the fall, the government also comes with a big message about public health work. Physical activity will be part of the action to be taken in relation to children and the growing-up conditions of young people. Physical activity in arenas such as kindergarten and school will be central to the message, it is said. It's going to be more than the number of body training hours. Non-governmental organisations are the main actors in the organisation of sport and physical activity in leisure, and they are asked to make recordings. One has to look at the interaction between several arenas and thus contribute to improved public health. Therefore, I can assure the previous speaker that this is not just being said and put in a drawer. The government will come back to this at the latest in the autumn in connection with a new communication on public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e498	When Åslaug Haga, Eli Sollied Överaas and I promoted this proposal that the vote concerns, we actually had hopes that more parties than just the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party would support it. The background for this was precisely that there has been a strong focus on the health of children and young people in recent years. The Minister of Health has also been high on the ground and pointed out that the lack of physical activity of children and young people is a serious health problem. ‘The life of the Norwegian child on the loose’ is a bold headline in the newspaper Dagbladet on 27 May this year. The results of the largest study carried out on children and young people’s physics since 1980 are presented by researchers at Norway’s gymnasium. The study shows that children become smaller and less active with age. The difference in physical form is greater now than before, and the general trend is that children and young people are heavier today, in poorer physical form and more inactive than before. From 1980, the condition has been reduced by 12 p.m., and the weight of children and young people has increased by an average of 3 kilograms. Researchers fear that children’s lifestyle will cause them diseases such as diabetes and heart disease. I could understand the majority who are going against this proposal, if this was just something invented by our side. But the reality is that in our neighbouring country Sweden has tried every four years at 900 schools, and it now becomes nationwide. If someone has problems looking at Sweden, you might turn your eye to Buskerud, where several schools participate in a similar project according to a model from Sweden. Vegavangen Jugendskole, Gol Jugendskole and Vestfossen Jugendskole participate in the project entitled ‘The School Education Act’. There are the actors in the county, the county, the schools and the sports circuit. They participate, and they all contribute financially to driving the project forward. The physical form of Norwegian schoolchildren is so poor that this project must continue, says the prevention counsellor at the County Medical College in Buskerud. As proposers, we describe in the setting how this important prevention work can start – initially by establishing a pilot project in a number of municipalities, where kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools are involved. In this context, we ask the Government to take responsibility for this and to facilitate a nationwide cooperation project between school and sport. This year, 400 years have passed since public health, when the first state medicine came to Norway, i.e. He came to Bergen. We believe that this is a good opportunity to take new steps in prevention. We are pleased that all parties support the intention of the proposal, but we are disappointed that the government parties and the Workers' Party could not go any further when conditions actually are right. There have been several comments about the fact that a fairly large grip is required. So in Buskerud, you've been able to organize a little different school days and get to one hour's physical activity a day by doing a few simple things. The gains in Sweden show that children who come in better physical form learn to read faster, and they learn easier. It actually means a lot to the learning environment. I'm probably a little disappointed, but I hope the government sees what's in this setting, sees the good intentions of all the political parties and takes it seriously in the further work when you talk about the content of the school in the future. I would like to take up the proposal in the vote on behalf of the SV and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e517	Rune J. Skjælaa has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e520	I agree with all the speakers who have said that this is an important topic. The problem, as I see it, can be illustrated by the following story that a left-wing lady just experienced: She was sitting in her office when she got a hysterical phone from the grandchild's nursery, which had not got hold of her mother, and who had to tell Grandma that the child was sitting in a tree and would not come down. This caused so much concern in the nursery that they immediately tried to get hold of the officers to tell them that the child was sitting in a tree and would not go down. Then Grandma came with the only healthy reaction: let her sit in the tree! To increase children's physical activity, children must be allowed to play, they must be allowed to be out, they must be allowed to be up in the mountains, and they must be allowed to be out in the woods. I'm critical that sport has the only good solution. If sport is struggling to bring the kids with it, they have to find new means, so that the kids feel it's nice to be there. I don't think gym is the only form of work to get kids into physical activity either. I think there are many gym experiences that have led the kids to have a negative view of physical activity, or feel like losers, and feel like the one who can't do it. That's why I think it's important that gym teachers don't have a monopoly on how to develop the physical activity of the kids, but that the whole community actually has that responsibility. Then we have to take care of everything. Then the parents must stop driving the kids. Then the parents must stop having the lawyer ready if the child falls into non-EU-approved sand. We have to have a school that doesn't always perceive the troubled as someone to be medicated. I don't think we should blame the kids' computer games. I've had a lot of volunteer child and youth work, and I've seen how happy and how wise you can get the kids by keeping on in the woods. I've seen as 4H's how happy and where excited an eight-year-old can be about to join in picking blueberries. So I don't think a computer game is a threat, because I think the kids can find a lot of excitement in completely different areas, if we adults dare to organize our society differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e533	So it's the way life-style diseases are dealt with, as many people here have been involved. Diabetes, certain cancers, cardiovascular diseases are very much a consequence of how we live. What we're doing wrong about how we live is essentially that we're not physically active enough, and that we have too poor a diet, for example. with too high a sugar intake. I'm absolutely sure that if we're going to be able to deal with the lifestyle diseases, which are putting huge costs on society, we need to be able to prevent. We're in a situation where health budgets can be an economic black hole if we don't have any ability to do anything about this. Prevention of lifestyle diseases — insofar as other types of diseases too — is sensible in an economic sense. It's socio-economic wise to prevent, and it's probably also humanely right not to cause unnecessary damage to people. So in relation to this, we all have to become more physically active. But it's all, most importantly, starting with our kids. We know that kids sit a lot more quietly than they've done. We know that obesity is a growing problem. I am surprised that the bulk of the population does not want to meet this offensively. So what's socio-economic wise, what's wise for the individual, it doesn't want the majority to meet in an offensive way. We're supposed to work with attitudes at home, but evolution shows that that doesn't work. I think it is reasonably obvious that it must be a task for politicians to facilitate people making wise choices. We have an opportunity to do that by facilitating more physical activity in school. We are not talking in this proposal about gym bags, sweating, jumping over bows, etc. What we're talking about is that kids are going to be more active in everyday life, possibly – as you do in Buskerud – using the leisure time that kids have at school to be more active. I have to say that I really thought it would be possible to have a majority in favour of this proposal in the Storting, because it is so obvious right. We know that this arrangement works. It works in Sweden. It is expanding in Sweden. We know that solutions have been found to this even in relation to the large number of people involved, with the organisation of school life, and that it can be at the expense of other things. It's all right to find solutions in Buskerud. And then the bulk of the population says that you can't go into this until you have documented the effect of the proposal. So when it comes to prevention, we have to prove that every penny has a good effect, while for example, every penny has a good effect. to print medicines on a blue prescription, no one asks the type of questions and demands. And that's funny. If we are to move on in the prevention work, we must also ask questions about the measures that are being taken to repair. We choose in this society – and that is a political choice we make – to focus on repair rather than prevention. And then the majority -- at least as it is formulated in the position -- doubt whether the sport wants to be part of it. One phone to the Sports Association had been enough to find out that this wants sport to actually engage in, because sport is not just about top sports, here is a not least about mass sports. In party speeches, in newspaper interviews and also here in the main hall, we see that the majority of words are offensive in terms of prevention. But there's something about this to think about, it would -- but you won't. I have to say that I think it is unusually defensive and little forward-looking not to go into this proposal. It doesn't stop supporting the intention, if you don't want to actually do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e551	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 296]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e564	The size should then vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e585	In the course of the debate, Mr Kjilleaen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to facilitate a nationwide cooperation project between the school and the sport movement to allow all primary school students to pursue physical activity 1 hour daily.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24.ana.ud1645e612	There is no record.
