ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e25	Then we should be ready for voting on case No. 1-3 on the current map, the relevant Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e32	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 2, by Sylvia Brustad on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 3, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement and the Central Party proposals No. 4 and 5, by Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6 and 7, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 8, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party proposal No. 9, by Øyvind Vaksdal, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party proposals No. 10-12, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 13-17, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 18-23, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing Party proposal No. 24, from Inger S. Enger on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party Proposals Nos. 1-23 is included in the vote, proposal No. 24 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 18–23, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the appropriations allocated to ENOVA are gradually increased by increasing the appropriations entered in the network tariff. The mark-up in the network tariff must be doubled in 2003 to 0,6 øre/kwh, and increased to 2 øre until 2005.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘An investment programme for local Agenda 21 work of 100 million is hereby established. krones. The programme is administered by the Ministry of the Environment.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government will be asked to ensure that the three major forest areas in East Norway for which the Ministry has not found room within the 2002 economic framework for the protection of the forests [[Skellingshovde and Honnsröve in Oppland, and Fuggdalen in Hedmark]] Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government, in the context of the Revised Budget for 2003, to submit a comprehensive multiannual plan for the prevention and control of the Gyrodactylus salmon parasite on the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture.’.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government in 2003 to set up a testing scheme with a replacement model in selected predatory areas where the owners of grazing animals receive grants in relation to the number of predators in the area, and no payment per. animals killed by predators.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to support the Nordreisa project in order to gain new knowledge on predatory issues and preventive work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e113	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–17 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up new financial support legislation based on equal criteria for voluntary environmental protection organisations, and to promote this as a matter of its own before examining the next year’s budget.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that environmental protection organisations that actively encourage or deliberately violate the law, in order to demonstrate against legal decisions, lose all financial State aid.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work in international forums to establish its own International Environmental Special Court under the auspices of the International Court of Justice in The Hague.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide any regulatory/legislative changes and to grant the necessary permits for the activity of tourism in Kalda-Kari.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case with the aim of increasing the pace of replacement of the Norwegian car park.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e150	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 12, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the EEA Agreement reduces the possibility for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry to be mandated due to restrictions on Norway’s use of instruments in relation to some EU countries’ instruments, and to present this to the Stortinget in the Revised National Budget for 2003.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to refrain from implementing the proposed change in the final treatment charge for waste, but to come back to the case in the context of the Revised Budget for 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e172	Proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back to Stortinget during 2003 with an assessment of the need for a new regulatory framework for the granting of financial support to voluntary environmental organisations.’ The President has been informed that the Progress Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e189	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to promote the necessary measures to reduce conflicts in the establishment of national parks, protection areas and the like.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e204	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider, in its 2004 draft State budget, the establishment of an investment programme for local Agenda 21 work.’ The President assumes that the Socialist Left now wants to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e221	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan for increased use of biofuels and waterborne heat, using the following:1. The introduction of mandatory green heat certificates is assessed.2. Until any market for green certificates is established, a temporary and equal support scheme for new renewable energy sources is established.3. Requirements for energy-flexible energy solutions such as: waterborne heat in all new industrial buildings and new residential buildings over 1000 m2.4. Step-by-step conversion plan for oil boilers and electric boilers to more flexible energy solutions and less polluting energy sources.5. Subsidies to enterprises and small-scale households for the purchase of environmentally friendly waterborne heat and more flexible energy solutions.6. Nordic coordination and exchange of experience to increase the use of biofuels.7. Increase the Norwegian biomass extraction.8. Increased R & D investment9. More use of waterborne heat, energy-flexible solutions and power and consumption-reducing measures must be included in the energy plans to be implemented in the 2003 regulation.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present during 2003 a stepping-up plan that realistically eliminates PCB and heavy metal sediments from Norwegian ports and fjords within a 10-year period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e271	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an independent analysis of the capital needs of ENOVA in the context of the evaluation of ENOVA, to give the trigger effect so far and the targets set by the Storting for the conversion of the energy market in Norway until 2010.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a plan to strengthen the rights of all persons through the acquisition and organisation of several areas of particular national, regional or local value, and to contribute to the protection and protection of important open-air areas in and around cities and agglomerations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e293	Proposal No. 24, from Inger S. Enger on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, have been changed to a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine a scheme of loans and grants for the installation of water and airborne heating in dwellings and public buildings. The Lending and Grant Scheme shall relate to the additional investments in relation to traditional heating modes and shall be managed by Enova.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘An overall plan for energy recovery in industry is drawn up based on the identification of the possibilities available to exploit recovered energy when industry, other actors and authorities are involved in committed cooperation and a long-term tax exemption for recovered energy is introduced.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e317	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e1919	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e3059	The proposal for a decision in Framework Areas 12 and 13 shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e4153	So is it to understand that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against? - That's correctly understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5757	The President has understood that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5803	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5823	The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5874	The President notes that a correction has been made so that the last sentence is replaced by the following: ‘Until such notification has been processed by Stortinget, the organisation and operation of the State Cartel is not changed.’ Furthermore, the President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5895	During the debate Siri A. Meling made a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'The Council endorses the proposal made in Document No. 8:25 Billing and charging scheme – legislative changes and St.prp. [[2002-2003]] [[2002-2003]] No Add Mr H. Langeland has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5903	Because of the course of the debate, we, who have the setting, would like to introduce a new wording in the last sentence. It shall read as follows: ‘The amendment shall apply, if possible, from 1 January 2003.’» But the premise is that the minority is drawing its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5913	Mr Onarheim has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5916	With that wording, the parties to the government will draw up their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5928	The proposal for a decision has been amended by the President-in-Office of the Committee on behalf of the Committee behind this vote and the last sentence is replaced by the following: ‘The amendment shall apply as from 1 January 2003 if possible.’ The minor proposal is then withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5946	During the debate, Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Coastal Party, raised the proposal put forward in the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal for a mechanism to provide a basis for the financing of projects carried out by both public and non-governmental organisations with the aim of halting the radioactive emissions of Sellafield. The scheme shall take effect as from 2002.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5964	We have finished voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5978	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e5989	The budget treatment at Stortinget this fall has shown that there is a clear alternative to the policy of the Government and the Advance Party. I expect that the various fractions of the municipal committee will do well for their priorities. The local committee's budgetary position also shows that there is a great difference between the priorities of the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Progress Party on one side and the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre on the other. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party stand among others. together about more money for municipalities in 2003 in order to avoid unsustainable cuts in school, kindergarten and care for money for county municipalities, so that they have the real opportunity to ensure good supply within their areas of responsibility that the State must take its part in its exceptional pension expenditure a multiannual escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances now existing in the local government sector more obliging consultation mechanism between the Government and KSnei on challenge law, i.e. ‘no’ to force local authorities to release welfare services in a more offensive rural policy for business development and equivalent living conditions throughout the country,to reduce the pressure on the housing market and to provide young and disadvantaged people with betteropportunities’, ‘no’ to provide Norwegian training in the process ofrenewal of Aetate and more to labourmarket agents. Even though these three parties have different permissions in different areas, we are united in a direction in strong contrast to the society of the Right and the Advance Party. Are we still going to have a community, or are we going to have a society where the individual is to a greater extent 'forsaking his own success' also in relation to the common services and the basic security that a broad majority of the people have now stressed? For the Central Party, this is a simple option. We want a public sector that takes care of the needs of the individual, and an adequate and equivalent supply. We don't want a fragmentation of service provision, we want a collection on certain Community elements. Then you need a reinforcement, not a weakening. Another development would have been possible if the Christian People's Party had chosen partners who stood together with the Christian People's Party in the political main lines. It's in the municipalities people cage. There is a need for good prevention in order to ensure a safe breeding environment. Kindergarten, school, cultural school and a wide range of volunteer work – everything depends on municipalities having the means to carry out their crucial part of the work for safe and inclusive neighbourhoods. It is now necessary in the municipalities to work for a care where people are met with dignity and respect. The central party also wants municipalities to have an important role to play in securing a diverse business environment. We want the county councils to have resources for a decentralised secondary school, for culture, child protection, the drug field and transportation, including a secure TT system. We want a real strengthening of the task as a regional development actor. It's embarrassing that the government hasn't arranged for it with a more fair saying after the state takeover of the hospitals. The main problem now facing the public sector is the imbalance between the income available to the local government sector and the tasks expected to be carried out. The autumn of 2002 has been filled with messages in local media about dramatic deaths in the vast majority of municipalities. The Municipal Committee is briefed on a number of examples of the same. It's hard to take inward that maybe as much as 80 pst. local authorities must cut the welfare supply of the inhabitants. This applies both to the cities, to the municipalities of growth and to the municipalities of relocation, and it occurs in all parts of the country. There are a number of homes and a number of individuals. The developments that have led to this situation have been known for the government and the great majority for a long time. Unfortunately, there is not a plurality on Stortinget today with the intention of following up the municipalities well enough in this area. The right is now given the possibility of freedom of movement for a society where one reduces public welfare and allows people to better organise themselves, depending on their individual economy. The center part thinks it's going to be a biased image when you just look at the growth of income in the municipal sector and not at the growth of expenditure. New tasks have been assigned in the last few years without money being followed. There is a disclaimer from the government and from the majority of the population in our view when municipalities and municipalities are now blamed for not getting the services they are entitled to. The center party will strengthen, not weaken, areas that are very important to many people. This is particularly true of more dignified care, a good and free common school, organised education and good follow-up for children with special needs, adequate teaching places in the secondary school and aftercare in the drug field. The centre party's alternative budget includes a municipal package of approximately $6.1 billion. It is a follow-up to the Centre’s approach to the 2003 Community Proposition. The centre party has previously taken initiatives to review unintended effects when it comes to stepping down the compensation of the so-called Rattsø-taparanes.We are very pleased that a majority today are ordering such a review to the 2004 Municipal Proposition. We are also pleased that the Workers' Party and SV now agree with us on a stepping-up plan for the financial imbalance and on a more mandatory consultation arrangement between the Government and KS. The central part of the game has previously proposed deleting municipal debt. There may be an important element in such a stepping-up plan. But let me stress that this must be done according to objective criteria, so that the individual municipality's debts do not become decisive for the amount of money that each municipality receives. A holistic and offensive effort is needed in the districts to stop the centralisation of knowledge, building and capital. For the Central Party, it is important that people experience a real freedom of choice when it comes to the city and workplace. Norway is in a special situation with many communities with low population and large distances. Many of our most important resources are in these areas. It is necessary to pursue a policy that helps us to make use of the rich resources we have both on land and in our marine areas. This requires an offensive district policy, so that the whole country has access to a positive development. Increased resources in the fields of transport, business development, municipal welfare, broadband and action targeting young people and women are needed. A reduction of the active agent is a strong contribution to strengthening the centralisation processes. It's a policy the Center Party will work against. Greater freedom to county councils within the regional development tasks will act as a good incentive and likely to have a good effect. However, we are deeply dissenting in the level of the promises proposed by the Government. The Government will transfer a number of heavy tool areas and tasks without following up with sufficient resources. Even worse, when the government and the Advance Party cut an additional 100 million. kr in these permissions. We want to strongly warn against a policy in which tasks are laid down at other political levels without money. Municipal feeding funds and water supply programmes are two heavy areas where responsibility has now been transferred to the county councils. Then they must also have the real possibility to follow up. The same is true of obligations towards the 14-municipal group. The centre part will consume about 500 million. kr more to regional development than the Government Party and the Advance Party, and we also increase the scope of SND by 190 million. kr. The Central Party considered it alarming that the Government is reducing the number of quota refugees transferred from the High Commissioner for Refugees. Norway must maintain its part of the international joint responsibility we are part of. We also oppose the Government's proposal to remove the suggestion for Norwegian asylum seekers training. This may result in additional social costs in the long term, as integration processes will start later. We will honour the important efforts of different organisations in the integration work, meeting places that provide mutual understanding, respect and cooperation. And so in our alternative budget, we're increasing the rewards in that area. The central party wants an active housing policy to take place, and insists that the House Bank is one of our best housing policy instruments. We disagree with the Government when it comes to changing the Husbank to a first home bank. We suggest that the framework for the House Bank should be set at 16,5 billion kroner, which would amount to 2.5 billion kroner in addition to the government's proposal. And we want to increase the housing supply, the propensity to the building environment, and we want to build up a total of 200 million. kr. Norway is facing major challenges in the labour market. Unemployment increases, and parts of business wear heavily. In our approach, there is both an own package for the yard industry, and there are extra funds for Aetat and for labour market measures. Finally, I recommend our proposal for a settlement when it relates to the situation of self-employed people, and the proposals on which the SV and the Central Party agree when it comes to gender-based follow-up, when it applies to single minor asylum seekers to be responsible for child protection, which should be a matter of concern to them, and for the reception of single minor asylum seekers to have the status of child protection institutions. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that either the Central Party is on its own or are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6067	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6072	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa gave a number of views and assessments in his article that I can agree to. For example, she had highlighted opinions on key issues such as the local economy and also on the need for regional policy measures. There is a full agreement between the Center Party and the Labour Party on these points of view. The political course of a number of areas dealt with in the setting up of the Municipal Committee is in the hands of the Centre Party and the Labour Party. When it comes to the devices themselves, the amount of resources to be used for the different areas, we sometimes separate layers, but I am glad to see that the collaborative arena is large. But the Centerpartiet stands alone in the view of inter-municipal cooperation and municipal structure. At least between the lines, we can read a negative slope to merge municipalities. This is surprising. In several municipalities, there are at least good grounds for looking at the municipal boundaries, and many of the local politicians of the Centre are for the same reason as discussing a new municipal structure. My question to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa is therefore: why is the Central Party in Stortinget so negative to changes in the municipal structure, more negative than their own elected representatives in several municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6081	First of all, for cooperation with the Labour Party. This way, the list of small letters can be done even longer and perhaps even more clearly. I am pleased that there is an alternative in the Stortinget that is concerned with strengthening the Community sector even if it goes beyond the wallet of those of us who have the most history, and I am glad that the Labour Party has also strengthened the profile when it comes to district policy. When it comes to future municipal structure, I think it might be a misunderstanding that makes itself felt. It is then obvious that in the very few municipalities that have recently chosen to merge, it is the Center Party that has both taken initiatives and were in the lead. The last is Re Municipality in Vestfold. And it's a municipality, led by a central party leader, who has chosen to go from one state to another, that is, beer, that has gone from Hordaland to Rogaland, and where aggregation is now being evaluated. But the arrangement that now lies with this government is a kind of disguised coercion that I find to be very strong against, and there I actually thought that the Labour Party and the Center Party could be on the line. It's a deliberate strategy to keep the municipalities down to force another municipal structure. We now want our own post on the state budget to strengthen inter-municipal cooperation, because we see that it's important. The smallest municipalities need to strengthen cooperation. So do the big ones. We suggest our own post with a lot of resources to strengthen intercommunal cooperation. We're surprised that no one will be with us at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6090	For the government parties, the main purpose of this budget was to have a tight financial arrangement to facilitate a fall in interest rates. That has meant priorities. Within a framework of over 500 billion kroner, it would be thought that even the Center Party has the ability to prioritise. Unfortunately, as in the past, the solutions of the Centre Party are — increasing the use of money. My question to the Center Party is therefore: why is the Center Party not able to give priority? And what has the Central Party's contribution to the reduction in the interest rate on the day of the farm been?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6097	The central party's fiscal spokesman has on a convincing basis maintained that it has not been necessary to keep interest as high as it has been in recent times. In fact, compared to these 500 billion dollars, let me say: in the Center Party, we thought it would be bad not to use the ability we now have to strengthen the transport sector and thus invest in the future to ensure settlement beyond the largest press areas, and to allow the rich resources that are in the districts to be taken care of. We thought it would be bad if we could not now strengthen the municipalities and make sure that we maintain a good and free public school and a more dignified care. We proposed more funds to the hospital sector, because we found it almost incomprehensible that more than 7 000 annual jobs are gone when people are in line for an operation and the expenses of the population are increased dramatically, as a result of sick leave. We haven't prioritised tax credits to the richest of us. Nor have we promised to work for an additional 14 billion kroner in tax bills according to the model that this government stands for. We've promised to lift from below. We're going to take care of the most difficult and make sure they get better, and we're going to make sure that it's over and above the largest press areas in our country. I am pleased with the priorities in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6106	The centre party and the representative Meltveit Kleppa must be commended for at least appearing to be honest and honest and sincere in their submissions. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the representative of Meltveit Kleppa, since the main post was very much about giving and giving: does not the Central Party find any areas at all in the public administration where there should have been changes, and where there might be a potential for efficiency, a potential for some rationalization, somewhere? Did the Center Party think about it? Now, when the Central Party is going to continue the kind of policy towards the municipalities through, as in this case, giving $6.1 billion, won't it just reinforce the unfair differences in the Commune-Norway today? We see in reports that the best municipalities provide twice as good services as the worst municipalities. When one then continues the income system in the way that the Centre Party does, it only means that the differences between municipalities and the services provided by these municipalities become even greater. In some municipalities, the individual will receive even worse offers, while the municipalities in North Norway, to which it is recommended to move, will receive even better offers. Doesn't the Center Party see that these differences have to go away somehow?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6115	When the Center Party proposes a total of $6 billion, it is primarily to secure the current supply, and over 2 billion goes directly to increasing pension expenditure in municipalities. I'm glad Per Sandberg is busy with a good service offer. Let me remind you that it's actually the smallest municipalities that get the best out there. It is then sad to note that there are the smallest municipalities that the Progress Party will frame, and I do not understand that we can get a better offer in Municipality-Noreg by taking from the municipalities that currently have an acceptable offer. It must be a goal both to keep the supply in the municipalities where they are happy and to strengthen the supply in the other municipalities. It is not possible for the Progress Party to succeed in its configuration. So it's actually taking it seriously that it's over 80 pst. which has been going through its situation for a long time and has made changes. Of course! The centre party is practical in its solutions, and it is a lot of center party people who have contributed to changes in different fields, even some who see that geography is such that they take the initiative to merge municipalities. In other municipalities, unlike the majority of the population, they see that there is no better care or schooling by combining municipalities with long distances. A better care and a good school must be there like people cage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6124	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6128	Hardly in any other committee do we see clearer and greater differences between the budget of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the budget of the government parties and the Progress Party which is likely to be adopted tonight. These are areas in which the Christian People's Party was previously concerned, municipal economy, district policy, immigration and work. The budgetary agreement with the Progress Party clearly shows that the Christian People's Party has changed its side of policy in these important areas. That's what we in the Workers' Party think is sad. The Workers' Party will invest in our common welfare arrangements and allocate over 2 billion more to the municipalities than the government parties and the Progress Party. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the main welfare schemes, kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. Many municipalities are in a very difficult economic situation. Nearly half of the country's municipalities have announced that they will spend less on school next year. That means more students in classes, that means less special education, that means fewer assistants, that means less follow-up of students. It doesn't give a better school, like that right later to believe. It gives a worse school and a worse offer to the students. In addition, many municipalities are forced to cut off the offers made to the elderly who have had a long life. Older people are formerly sent to bed at the old age home, some of them have their daily allowance cancelled, and many of them have to pay more for home services. Everyone who's hit by these cuts should know that it's the Progress Party that's the key to getting the municipalities to the next year so tight. But it is and has always been the policy of the Progress Party, so it is not really so surprising. The settlement parties say they have increased the appropriations allocated to the municipalities. That's right, but the increase of 713 million. kr in free income, as proposed by the Government, is not even enough to compensate for the failing tax revenue in the current year. Unemployment has increased by over 20 pst. the last year. But even if the interest rate went down by 0.5 pst. Yesterday, the increased unemployment should worry everyone, including the government parties and the Progress Party. The Labour Party believes that the government's policy in this area is too defensive. The Labour Party will have a more offensive policy in the labour market, where more people are offered action. We're also strengthening Aetat, while we're going to have 1,700 more labour market measures for next year. The policy of the Government and the Advance Party is to make things worse for the unemployed. The Labour Party refuses to send thousands of unemployed people to social assistance. We say no to changes that could lead to more people being cancelled instead of being released. We say no that those who are unemployed are charged up to NOK 20 000 per year. All unemployed people should know that it is the Progress Party that is now adopting a budget that will make them live less for next year. Tonight, it is decided to halve the number of quota refugees coming to Norway next year, from 1500 to 750 people. If one had not known better, one would believe that this was something the Government had to accept in the agreement with the Advance Party, but that is not the case. I would like to quote from the persuasion debate, where Prime Minister Bondevik said the following: ‘I am proud to lead a government that fights for those who suffer the most, for the poor and for the persecuted.’ But it was actually Bondevik's government that proposed the drastic reduction in the number of quota refugees. The transfer refugees are the worst victims of all the world's refugees. These people have fled their homeland, resided temporarily in a country, and they cannot return home. Nor can they live on a permanent basis in the country in which they now live. For this reason, a rich country such as Norway has to be able to accommodate the 1,500 years. The Labour Party will maintain today's quota, because we will fight for those who suffer the most, for the poorest and for the persecuted. The Labour Party acknowledges that we have not been good enough in the integration work here in the country. That's why we think we need to do something about it, both in the short and long term. But what the government parties and the Progress Party are now doing when they cut Norwegian training at reception is the opposite. It will both delay and cost the integration process. The Workers' Party agrees that the presumed groundless asylum seekers should be placed in their own reception and receive an answer to their application as soon as possible, preferably within three weeks. However, the Labour Party disagrees that those who are likely to stay in this country because they need protection should not start with Norwegian training until they are resident in a municipality. Not spending time on receiving to qualify for the Norwegian labour market is wasted on taxpayers’ money. Although the settlement parties save a few million kroner in Norwegian education, the budgets will increase in other areas: This will have to lead to increased appropriations for activation services for residents.This will have to lead to increased costs of interpreting.This can lead to increased crime. Quality of life will deteriorate and the motivation for integration gradually disappears. We know that. Providing Norwegian training in a shorter period to asylum seekers who are likely to stay in the country while they are in reception is much cheaper and better for all parties than having to provide social assistance or social security over time when living in a municipality. The working party will give 200 million. kr more in the area of housing. We believe that the challenges of housing policy are in line. There are over 6,200 homeless people in Norway. Housing prices are high, interest rates are high, and electricity prices are increasing. A lot of people have to deal with excessive housing costs. The best way to get the boute poisons down, as well as to bring down the interest rate, is to build more homes. The Labour Party believes that the Husbank should have such a liberal framework that it does not impede the construction of new dwellings. This is the case this year, when the government's framework was so scarce that the House Bank ran out of money on the ass and many applications had to be pushed over to next year. In such a situation, it is not enough to grant NOK 1 billion more to the House Bank, as it is now done tonight. The Labour Party believes that the House Bank's framework for next year should be NOK 16 billion, but will probably not get a majority for that. The working party believes that NOK 8 billion of the framework will be set aside for the construction of new dwellings. The government proposes that the majority should go to the purchase of a dwelling. It is not a policy of getting more homes into the market and thus pushing prices down. On the other hand, it can increase the price pressure. The working party believes that if those who find it difficult to enter the housing market are to receive help, it is absolutely necessary to increase the grants for the construction of low-deposit dwellings and rental dwellings. So we're going to go in for an increase of 112 million. kr to next year. The housing allowance is targeted. In particular, it will help them with poor advice and problems with top finance. It may not be that only those who have parents, grandparents or an employer who guarantee the highest level of funding will have the opportunity to live fairly and well. The housing aid scheme is a very good State instrument, enabling everyone to have the opportunity and afford to live in an acceptable position. The working party will allocate 63 million. in addition to that proposed by the Government Parties and the Party of Advancement. We agree that families with children living in houses that are not house-bank financed will be included in the housing support scheme. But that's not enough. The main problem with housing aid today is that the ceiling for support is very low, and many with high housing costs and low income are outside. The Working Party will do something about that. That is why we propose raising the ceiling by NOK 30000 – a roof that today is NOK 148 000 for a single with a child and NOK 161000 for a couple with a child. You have a rental of NOK 4000 – 5000 per person. month, there won't be much left to live on. By raising this ceiling, the economy of many families with high housing costs and low incomes will be much better. In addition, the Workers' Party wants the housing allowance to be paid each month. Finally, in the areas of the Municipal Committee, we see clearly that Norway is now governed in a different direction from that of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre – in the direction of the Right and the Advance Party, with greater differences between people and between cities and countries. It would have been quite possible to choose differently for the Christian People's Party: more well-being – and a little less tax haven.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6187	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6190	First, a few obvious factual errors: the Labour Party has also cut in its approach to Norwegian training for refugees. They've cut off half of what the government is proposing. It means one and only increased bureaucracy. Who's going to get it? Who is it that doesn't get? So over to those who are in receipt, and Norwegian training for them. Of course, those who agree to stay in Norway will also receive Norwegian training when they are in receipt. Something else will be completely wrong. In order to follow up the camp with factual errors, you can go over to the economic policy of the Workers' Party and the statement by the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen that the overall budget of the Workers' Party is tighter than that of the Government. This is wrong. The draft budget of the Workers' Party has both higher revenue and higher expenditure than the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. On the expenditure side, there is particular public consumption, i.e. the sum of government and local government expenditure, which is higher. This seems in isolation to be expansive. The net taxes, i.e. taxes adjusted for transfers, are also considerably higher in the Workers' Party's proposal, which in isolation operates contractually on the economy. However, an increase in taxes has a less restrictive effect on the economy than a reduction in public consumption. Taking this into account, the coherence of the Labour Party's budget suggests that overall, there will be no weaker growth in employment than that resulting from the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party. My question to the representative Signe Eye is therefore: Is the Workers' Party's overall budget proposals really tighter than the Government's?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6199	It is true that the Workers' Party has also cut off Norwegian training for those who are in receipt – we have now got a system that allows us to have our own reception for groundless asylum seekers. We also believe that there is no reason for them to receive Norwegian training, because they are likely to leave the country quite quickly. But then it's those who are most likely to be here in the country. We believe that they need to start with Norwegian training even if they are in reception, when they are most likely to be here in the country. It's also the cheapest thing to start with Norwegian training while they're in reception. We think that'll give us a much better integration. This will mean that they get to work faster, and that they don't have to live on social assistance for large periods when they first come out to the municipalities. The Labour Party agrees with the Right that we should have a tight budget and that we should deal with the rule of action in the budget. The working party is pleased that yesterday's interest rate went down by 0.5 pst. When the representative Gitmark asks if we have a tighter budget, the answer is yes, because we spend $2 billion less than what the government uses in its arrangement. That gives us a tighter budget. There is no doubt that our budget is a tighter than that of the Government, but we should nevertheless be happy that interest rates are now beginning to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6206	What do you say about this, then? There were few points of light here. The Work Party's Sign Eye continues to paint in a well-known style. In fact, one gets a little tired of listening to this terrible grief message from the Workers' Party that everything is so amazingly wrong in Kommune-Norway. So it ended with the fact that the Progress Party got the blame for this, we who were just accused of being the party that spends the most money! As I understood it, according to the Labour Party, there are no other solutions to improve the local government sector in Norway but to allocate more money. Where has political creativity once characterized the Workers' Party? We also remember that just a little while ago the Stoltenberg government had very floating views. They talked about modernising, renewing and streamlining the public sector. Today we heard a working party that was not talking about modernisation or innovation at all. The Labour Party is therefore strongly opposed to putting public service production out of competition, as I understood it. The right to challenge, as recommended by the Party of Advances and Government Parties, is virtually banned by the Workers' Party. Is it true that the fight to preserve the old, surviving public welfare monopolies is compatible with wanting to renew and streamline the public sector? I'm just asking. And then the party will accept more refugees. Isn't it more important that we now slow down to get control of the chaotic situation we already have in this area? It concerns residence, language training, unemployment, cultural conflicts and whatever it may be. And then the Labour Party will spend $3 billion more than the Advance Party and the Government agree! Does the Labour Party at all have other proposals to improve and streamline the municipal sector than just wanting to spend more money? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6224	It seems that the Progress Party is not satisfied with the budget agreement in relation to what municipalities will receive from revenue next year. They should be, because with the budget of the Progress Party they would get NOK 3000 billion to be DKK 3 billion. less. Then there was even more privatisation and even less both showering and other things for the elderly. But it doesn't look like the Progress Party is particularly concerned. It's black paint, says the representative Andersen. No, this is not black paint, because never before have we received so many enquiries from the municipalities. But it is not from the politicians in the municipalities, it is the people in the municipalities who complain. It's the parents of schoolchildren, it's the older ones, it's the ones who are now getting up and going on demonstration trains around the country and saying that enough is enough, now we're not going to find ourselves in this anymore. It's not about increasing the well-being of municipalities, it's not what we're talking about, we're talking about not cutting the measures completely, so that the day-care centre is gone and the school leisure system is so expensive that you can't afford it. That's what we're talking about. The Labour Party is for modernisation in the municipalities. We've been running it all the time, and we're going to keep doing that. Clearly, there are efficiency measures in the municipalities, and we have to work on that, but there will be no efficiency measures when competition is launched overnight, as the municipality of Moss is doing. They've tried it, they tried with a nursing home here this summer – mid-year – because then they had a deficit. Now the health home is running out of millions of dollars. No, if we're going to make it more efficient, we're going to have to bring the employees with us, and that's not what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6238	SV, the Working Party and the Center Party are united about a lot in this setting, and most of it goes in the direction. But we in SV have to say that we are not very impressed with the municipal economy that the Workers' Party is presenting in relation to the big tasks that lie there. I also think that the Workers' Party is on a little thin ice when they believe that their arrangements will ensure Norwegian training for asylum seekers in reception according to the model that was proposed. But I won't say more about it. I'm going to take up an area that I thought was in the heart of the Workers' Party, where I don't understand why they don't agree with SV. It is about putting a roof on the cost of a refurbishment facility. I understand that in a budget you don't necessarily have money for everything, but that you argue against that in principle, I think it's hard to understand. So this is about the setup that Aetat has to approve and control, and that they see is reasonable with the user. In fact, some of the private providers that offer e.g. technical and IT education, has expensive and good structures, which enable individual success. To be so greedy initially that this will only be allowed to cost $50,000, and in sum never more than $100,000, I have to say is a very short-term savings if you can get a disability into work in such a way. So I want to challenge the Workers' Party a little bit. It is okay that we have not found room for this increase in this budget, but what in the world is the reason why we argue that it should be such a thank-you? The quality control and the check that private schools should not be able to take a completely rough look at this is at Aetat, and that check must necessarily be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6249	To the representative, Andersen, I have to say that our municipal arrangement does not only contain NOK 3 billion more than the government's original arrangement, there are several quite significant elements in that arrangement, among other things. we say something about how to deal with the increased pension costs. I thought, after talking to a lot of municipalities, that's the main reason why you're now working very hard in the municipalities. We also ask for an escalating plan, and there we are with SV, so that the municipalities can have finances in relation to what they need. So there are several elements here that make it possible to get a lot better out of our arrangement than what is now being adopted. But as we know, none of these things are adopted tonight. The Labour Party will regret that, and I think that is also a pity for the SV. In the case of Norwegian training, we have almost halved the cut in relation to the government's arrangements. We believe that assumed groundless asylum seekers should not receive Norwegian training because they are so likely to be sent out again. We believe that with our budget in that area, we will be able to provide Norwegian training to those who are in that category that they are likely to stay here in the country. I believe that Andersen and I agree that people with disabilities should work at all costs, and in terms of the ceiling on reintroduction, we will come back to that in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6258	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6261	In this budgetary position, the parties to the Government have received a majority for a tight but good budget for the Municipality of Norway. Compared to the revised national budget, municipalities are now strengthened by a total of NOK 3.6 billion. The free revenues amount to more than DKK 1.2 billion of this. It does not cover the fact that many Norwegian municipalities are struggling with a very tight frame. This is a tight government budget. It is not unnatural then that the municipal sector, which represents an increasing share of both the Norwegian economy and employment, is also affected by it. This is not just about how much money we have to spend. It's just as important how we spend the money. The parties working together on this state budget have in common that we will have the best possible well-being for each local government budget. The growth of income is high, but that is not the main problem for Norwegian municipalities. That's the growth of expenditure. That's where we need to focus. The expenditure growth has to go down. Therefore, a tight government budget is important for Kommune-Norway. If we reduce interest rates, reduce tax and tax burden, secure jobs in the competitive sector, and so also increase the freedom of action of municipalities in all parts of the country. Yesterday's half-percent reduction in interest rates means a lot for Norwegian municipalities. According to the updated figures of the Bank of Norway, the total municipal debt burden is approximately NOK 120 billion. Thus, the reduction in the interest rate of yesterday increases the freedom to act in Norwegian municipalities by 600 million. kr. The continued decline in interest rates in the new year could, of course, reinforce the impact of this. The local government sector has a large place in the Norwegian economy. The municipal sector manages total revenues of NOK 225 billion. 25 pst. the number of persons employed belongs to the municipal sector. The sector is simply so big that overall budgetary tightness has to mean tightness here as well. But there is reason to remember that the local economy is a result of long-term priorities. We have seen up to several underfunded state reforms in recent years. Government governance has become increasingly strong and local freedom of action is decreasing. Some cases of overinvestment may also be seen in some municipalities, and there is a lack of consistency between the level of operation and the framework. There are several explanations, but it is no longer a good enough prescription just to increase the state transfers. Then we just push the problem in front of us. All municipalities in this country, whether they like to hear it or not, have the potential to solve their tasks with the same or better quality in a less costly way than today. It is about new technologies, better inter-municipal cooperation, more competition, less focus on the consideration of own bureaucracy and more focus on citizens' wishes and needs. There are differences from part of the country to part of the country, from state to state and from municipality to municipality. We must not be so afraid of the differences. Less earmarking, a larger share with free resources, a more VAT-neutral system for purchasing services and more competition will provide much more local freedom of action. Politics is about prioritizing. Local policy is about making local priorities. It is not we in this room who are to govern the municipality of Norway in detail. It has not been long since we heard beautiful words from a former government on the conversion and modernisation of the public sector. What we hear here today from the same team is reduced to just a call for more money. In addition, when the money is to be collected through new tax incentives, and then you only set a new pace on the payroll and jeopardize the level of expenditure even higher. It's not a good recipe for a better community economy. Many municipalities have shown that they are dry in this tough budget harvest. They dare take the transition, even if it hurts. They dare to discuss the future organisation of cooperation with neighbouring municipalities. They dare bet on competition. They dare to engage in dialogue with their citizens about what are the most important jobs right in that municipality. I also allow myself to mention in this context the special consideration that must be given to the 14 municipalities in four counties in the question of compensation for changes in the employer's fee. Here, the right will be allowed to express support for the desire to take such consideration in the distribution of regional development funds next year. Finally, there is a job left to do with the income system. There is exciting work on the VAT front, and the Government is doing well to reduce the number of earmarked schemes, to lower taxes and taxes, to simplify public Norway and to give municipalities the freedom of action they need to do the tasks that each municipality considers most important to its citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6284	The representative of Hogsnes has clearly come to the conclusion that the municipalities meet hard times, even if he tries to suppress his point of view as much as he can. The Government Party and the Advance Party force the municipalities to make painful cuts. To a large extent, older people, people who have had a long life, and who now need both help and care. As a consequence of poor urban economy, the supply of older people is going to be smaller than before, and the quality of supply is going to be much worse in a lot of municipalities. Yes, a survey by the Municipal Councils' Central Association shows that one country across the country has some major cuts in the welfare supply of the older part of the population. The spokesman in Ålesund, Toning, talks about the most serious economic situation for the municipality that one has been up in his political career. My question to the representative Hogsnes is therefore: is it the Right of the Right that care for the elderly is impaired around our municipalities? And question No. 2: Does the Spokesman in Ålesund misappropriate the relationship in Kommune-Noreg?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6289	Yes, on which I was clear in my post: This is a tight budget. This is very challenging. New billions of transfers to municipalities and county municipalities will only postpone the necessary conversion and modernisation that should have been carried out a long time ago. Now we need to stimulate to find new solutions. It does not necessarily mean a series of municipal associations, but it may mean cooperation along unexpected borders on new solutions, even in the case of elderly services, of which Reidar Sandal was particularly concerned. More focus on citizens' wishes and needs, and less focus on their own organisation. Several people here talk about more room for action, but at the same time make proposals for more designation and more central governance. And as I was in my post: we have had some airy calculations over several years, and it has given great underfinancing of a number of state reforms. To the two questions, yes, we're all going to worry about the tightness of the situation. It's challenging. And then together, we're going to find the best solutions. I believe that the rapporteur in Ålesund is best able to express his own concerns. I don't share all his concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6298	The representative Hogsnes from the Right said that the municipalities have a cost problem above an income problem. The entry for the representative Hogsnes was very helpful. The Right Party and the Progressive Party agree on several important political issues, such as: the closure of the unnecessary county council, as well as the organisation of good competition in public welfare production, as was also the case in Hogsnes. And I certainly believe that these two parties can do a lot together in terms of improving, simplifying and streamlining public administration for the future. Because we have so much in common. But in other areas, there are some policies that separate us. Let me do an example. This concerns the issue of increased labour migration from outside the EEA territory. I think it seems strange to most people when you hear that the Right will continue to work for increased labour immigration of unskilled labour from outside the EEA territory. It is likely that the right-hand side has found that the unemployment rate is increasing, including among immigrants in Norway. How long will the Right continue to think that it makes sense to increase labour migration at a time when we have increasing unemployment, and especially among non-Western immigrants? Does the representative of Hogsnes not agree that the most sensible thing to do is to get the unemployed immigrants who are already in this country, before you choose to open up a large increase in the number of non-Western workers? In the past – I just remember it – the right has made proposals that really mean free immigration to Norway. When is the Right-wing sense to be taken into account in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6305	I would first of all like to express my agreement with Torbjørn Andersen when he says that it is not the growth of income that is the main problem for Norwegian municipalities, but the growth of expenditure. It is also not difficult to agree that it is clearly a priority task to get unemployed immigrants, like everyone else who is available, to work. It's in the line of work. Furthermore, within a number of groups there is a significant residual capacity in this country, which is important to obtain and exploit. I believe, unlike Torbjørn Andersen, that the Right has a reasonable immigration policy, and therefore does not share his concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6312	There's one thing I'm a little confused about in the post to Hogsnes, and that's when he talks about the country needing such a tight budget. But what he's not talking about is that the main reason why it's so tight in public budgets is that the government has decided that all the oil money should go to tax havens and nothing to better welfare for its inhabitants. But there might not be anything that's timely to mention all the time. What was the main point in the middle of the Hogsnes line is what goes on the government slogan. And the government slogan is that the money should help those who need it the most. And then we see what happens around the municipalities: when it's cut in the municipalities, it's a good part of the people who need it the most, who get hit by these cuts. And that's because all those who need it the most live around some municipality in this country -- whether it's resource-intensive users, who don't get the follow-up of assistants, or it's like on Kongswinger, where 750 older people are at risk of being cut off their home help, or there are kids in Engerdal who can have a travel time of up to two hours every day, or there are social welfare recipients in Oslo who don't get an increase in social assistance at all over New Year's. Right says they're for local democracy, because it's tricked and because it's right. Yet they are cutting into the local democracy's ability to just prioritize those who need it the most. Then my question to Hans Kristian Hogsnes is, Don't you see right this? Or do they not see that the policy they are pursuing towards the municipalities is not at stake in helping those who need it the most? Or does the Right think that those who receive social assistance, the elderly who depend on home help, and others who now experience cut, really don't need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6321	That's exactly what characterizes the state budget that we now have on the table in front of us, that is, that you put the help of those who need it the most. In the past, you have been very good at talking about what to do. This government dares to do something for those who need it the most. I believe that both the Right and the Government's policies are at stake. It's not right, as it was said, that all the oil money goes to tax havens. We then use several other purposes too, I believe to be able to see from the budget. But it does not exempt municipalities and counties from even locally prioritizing what they think is important. It's not enough to blame them for not getting enough money. They have a job to do in relation to prioritising school, if that's what they want, to prioritize work for the elderly, if that's what they want. They do not come from that responsibility even though the representative Heikki Holmås believes we are failing. We don't. Local freedom of action will be the message if the municipalities have to do the tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6333	Taxes to the rich have in a way become the repeater of the new block formation and perhaps the future new co-operation government, the centre party, the SV and the Workers' Party. So they have not registered that the Advance Party has received NOK 1 billion in tax bills for everyone who earns less than NOK 190 000 per year. In my opinion, some and everyone, both from SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, should join in and cheer for that billion. It will reach those who have the least. I also record that the same block is not so much concerned that the Progress Party has received more money for medical treatment in comparison with the government parties. I also record that the same batches are not concerned with the fact that the Progress Party has been removed that sick people should not receive medicine on a blue prescription. We didn't quite get there, but we got a good deal on the way. Those who have a minimum pension, get free medicine, on a blue prescription. I also register that the same parties are not concerned that the Advance Party was able to remove the excess. I also record that the same parties are not concerned that the Progress Party received NOK 1 billion for upgrading school buildings. I also record that the same parties are not concerned about the termination of the obligation to pay employers, so that we avoided mass redundancies, so that we avoided getting even more on unemployment benefits and daily allowances. I also record that the same batches are not interested in seeing that the Progress Party was also able to do something about the deduction of machines, which probably helped to strengthen and maintain a whole lot of jobs. But I didn't expect it either, because these three parties have now driven so much black paint and – I'm sorry for the expression – so much jamring that I'm really afraid that beyond winter it will create great depression in the whole country. I just read that the darkness struck people's moods. But you big world – the jam we've heard now for a month from the three parties, I think I'm going to turn on the expenses of a health budget. Because people don't get sick by listening to that kind of jam, I don't understand. The Progress Party is also in the area of municipal policy. But I am sincerely sorry that other parties are not trying to look at other angles and other solutions also in the local government sector. I record that everyone is concerned that the problems should be solved better, that we should have better service production. I also agree that many municipalities are very badly affected. But as I said here, it's not because of the income. It's largely because of the costs. I also agree that some state reforms have incurred additional costs for the municipalities for which they have not been paid. But then it's amazing that not the same parties will actually be able to give the municipalities the money they necessarily need to run the health, care and school sectors. This means that we need to have a funding system where the state finances this 100 p.m., so that we avoid poor service production in the municipalities, so that there is a smooth, fair service provision across the country, regardless of where you live – not like today, where the service provision in some municipalities is totally miserable, while in others it is very good. But I'm strong in the threat, and I'm sure that the Progress Party also in this area is going ahead and paving the way, and that sooner or later it will light up to some other parties that it will be necessary to make an adjustment in this area. It is quite right that the Progress Party cuts 3 billion kroner – not 3,000 billion, as the representative Eye said in his speech, that is how much money the municipalities have! But that's right -- we cut 3 billion. But then I also think that in the name of justice there should be a little focus on the areas where we give money to the municipalities. We immediately transfer SEK 1.2 billion back to the health and social budget. At the same time, we follow up. And we actually believe in all the reports that have come in recent years, including from the Stoltenberg government in its time, that there are possibilities for improving the efficiency of municipalities. We believe it, we believe it, as opposed to the rest of this hall. I hope that both the state councils present here today will focus more on extracting the gains that may exist within the public sector. Because that can't be the way it is today! When the municipalities have NOK 225 billion, we can make a careful and modest estimate. It's easy to see that there might be efficiency potential on let's say 4 pst. Although the reports suggest that there might be as much as 20 pst. By 4 pst. The Senterpartiet has also met its 6 billion DKK request for service production in the municipalities – simple and simple. But what if these thoughts don't go through, and all of them, and in particular the Workers' Party, as we see, has now become museum guards? Excuse me, but I actually don't believe in the agenda that the Labour Party has. I find it difficult to understand that the Workers' Party is engaged in better service production. But I understand that when the representative Eye is very busy taking the staff into the reorganisation. You have to be, I totally agree with that. However, the point is that the Workers' Party has an agreement with employees that it should not be modernised, that it should not be put off for competition. It's up to the employees to decide, and then it's hard to get it done. I'll be a little restrained at the end here, but I want to give praise too. I think it should be allowed to express praise in such debates. The father may well be overhanging because the process will stop, but I'm still taking the chance. I want to give Santa Claus to the Solberg Council when she is now bit by bit implementing the immigration policy of the Progress Party. I am pleased that the Solberg Council of State has brought in elements such as family reunification requirements, satisfaction with the fact that there is now a majority in the Stortinget for the objective that the treatment period for applications should be reduced to 48 hours, that we have received comments on the alternative deployment of asylum seekers, that we are now being tightened up in Norwegian education for asylum seekers who, after all, are going to be sent out of the country, that we are being required to receive minimum training in Norwegian to obtain permanent residence permits or citizenship, that we are now also going to check whether young people, lone asylum seekers, they are they are saying, that the Council of State is also going to express that aid is now to be used in relation to the aid countries in order to obtain asylum seekers. The Council of States must be commended for that. However, there is still a great deal of work to be done to curb the naïve liberalisation that Bondevik has faced since 1997. That's 600 pst. increase in asylum influx since 1997! I am not going to interfere in the debate on certain asylum applications, but studies now show that people are becoming more and more skeptical, and now more than the Progress Party must realise that this can go wrong. And so now we've got KS; now Kommune-Norway is traveling and is working with the Progress Party to make that change. I would also like to try some requests. I would like to follow up on the representative Hogsnes in relation to the 14 municipalities that have been promised compensation for an increased employer's fee. I ask the Council of State to try to find ways to follow it up. I would also like to make a small request to the Council of State. In the agreement in the municipal committee we have put in place 1.1 million. to the organisation Human Rights Service. As is well known, that organisation is under strong pressure and claims have been made. The Progress Party would like to await this matter as it is also being discussed in the Control and Constitutional Committee, and would ask the Council of State to wait for any payments, at least until the matter has been settled in the Control and Constitutional Committee. I am promoting the proposals contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6363	The representative Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6368	First of all, I would recommend the representative Sandberg to read the working party's alternative budget, then he might see the light as well. Now the Progress Party has seen its mark on this budget, but the Progress Party is running with double bets – both rose and rice. I would like to remind you that in the last six years, the Progress Party has voted in favour of four state budgets. Nevertheless, the Progress Party tries to disclaim its responsibility for the budget for which they vote. Now it's time for the Progress Party to acknowledge this. Without the votes of the Progress Party, the budget would not have been adopted. The party of progress represents populist excesses, which would negatively affect both interest and unemployment, and they are also responsible for serious attacks on trade unions and other workers. There is an eye-catching announcement in the nations of December 6, where Per Sandberg is interviewed: ‘Per Sandberg, Frp’s municipal political spokesman, believes that local government will cut extra hard this year to demonstrate against government policy. “I fear a party political game,” says Sandberg.” It is painful for a local government representative to be involved in putting down or cutting in their own welfare supply. Does the representative, Sandberg, really believe that the local government and individual representatives have such motives when they do their budgetary work? And if there was a drag park from the Sandberg representative's side, the representative should regret this to those who are pursuing active local politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6383	It wasn't a drag park at all. It was a genuine concern that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the UK in the individual municipal governments around the country will now use the municipal budget for the next year to some extent to indicate that it is the majority that is behind the government budget for the next year, which is why the municipalities have problems. I'm really worried about that. And I'm not just genuinely concerned either, because I'm not different from other representatives of the municipal committee than that I have a certain kind of interest in how the budgets are made in the different municipalities, so I try to keep a little eye on it. And I'm recording, despite the claim that the municipalities have a terrible economy, that there's still money to keep business, to keep the administrative links, to keep the intermediate links, and yet to hire new managers in administrative positions, while the same budget cuts in school, health and care. Then I become genuinely concerned. And it is regrettable that the Labour Party does not feel that concern. I would also like to say, when the representative from Eye earlier today presented a lot of cut and claimed that there are many people who are making contact, that this also applies to those who are signed. But what people are concerned about are the parties that sit on municipal boards and kisses on health, care and school. And it's the Workers' Party. It's the Center Party. And that's even SV. So I actually think that trying to criticise the Progress Party, which is just sitting in the constellation one place and has an impact in a couple of other municipalities, because it gets cut in the care of the elderly and the schools in the municipalities, is a pretty exaggeration. There I think the Workers' Party must take some of the responsibility itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6392	There are probably almost no limits to seagoingness in the Progress Party when they believe that municipal government representatives from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party would sit in local government and lay down schools and cut home help because they want to hit the Progress Party. I'm sorry, but there's one of the most unprofessional things I've ever heard. I understand that Sandberg's sea is a little bit affected by this depression. There is no one who can sue and complain as well as the Progress Party, so I will not take up any competition with the Advance Party on it, but the reality is that the old and the sick are now getting dizzy for the municipal scheme. And that is the responsibility of the Progress Party. When we don't shame the Progress Party for the arrangement, it's because our local economy is better, our tax relief for those with the least income is better, we eliminate all the excesses, and we even have the same depreciation on the machines that the Progress Party mentioned. So here it would have been possible to make a much better arrangement with a cooperation with us. So to a specific matter that the Progress Party has previously agreed with SV on, but where they have now failed. And they do that when they have the power to influence. This relates in particular to the resource-intensive users in the municipal sector. It's the most disabled people who have to have help with absolutely everything 24 hours a day. The Progress Party and the SV have previously considered that they should have a state top funding, a single price model for all expenditures above DKK 600 000, so that they are not awarded any municipal poverty or priority from one year to the next. I don't particularly sympathise with the Progress Party when they stand here and sigh because they don't get praise, when in such a priority they don't manage to defend those who have no chance at all to influence their own situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6403	I don't think I need any sympathy. I'm not looking for praise either, at least not from the Socialist Left Party. If I had, I would have been worried. Then I can also establish that my mood is good, and it's rising, because it's approaching Christmas, one should have vacation, eat good food and be with the family. So to resource-intensive users. Representative Andersen knows very well that the Progress Party has an agreement with the government parties in terms of the municipal proposition for 2003. The party of progress is, unlike anyone else, very concerned about keeping agreements. Now there is more resources for resource-intensive users next year. It is also part of the agreement on the municipality proposal. There is also the need for a new funding model in place from 2004. So we follow up on the agreements and the responsibilities we've assumed. So the representative says Andersen that a number of areas that we got through, they also had on their budget, and that it could have become a better arrangement with, for example. SV in that role. But the point is that there had to be someone else, including through higher taxes and taxes — most likely. And I hope everyone will realize that it will not be part of the Advancement Party. But then back to the municipalities. We actually met the agreement we had on the municipal bill for 2003 by making an extra million for the municipalities in the agreement. We also tried to get all the money into the primary municipalities, because it is where health, care and school are to be delivered. We didn't get that fully, but we got at least 40 million. Dr from county municipalities and over to the primary municipalities – and we are pleased with that – to care for the elderly, school and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6414	The representative Sandberg said instead that he would like to give praise. I want to give homage to the will to cooperate, to the will to conclude agreements and to the will to keep them. Per Sandberg pointed out in his speech a number of things that he said have improved the budget – and far on the way I agree. The Progress Party has demonstrated through its alternative budget that they are willing to show positive discrimination. They propose in their budget that sheltered measures for disabled persons should receive an investment increase of 50 million. kr. Through the agreement, they have helped to correct injustices in relation to Nord-Trøndelag and Østfold. The previous round of replies showed that they have helped to increase the funding of particularly resource-requiring users by 50 million through the agreement on the borough proposal. NOK so that the increase has gone from approx. 350 million. NOK when we started with this, to SEK 650 million. kr in the current year – a significant increase. It is therefore very surprising that in the alternative budget I find NOK 0 for national minorities, approx. halved for the Sametinget, the Competence Centre for the Rights of Native Peoples, and cut off the Centres from ethnic discrimination, precisely on the grounds that there is positive discrimination. How can one be in favour of a positive discrimination in one area but not in another? How does this stand in relation to international agreements to which Norway is obliged?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6423	If it is to be understood that positive action falls under the category where funds are allocated to weak groups, I see a great difference in that and possibly to go in for action and grant funds to healthy and up-to-date people who can participate fully in all the common arenas that exist in the whole country. This is where the Progress Party is once again a little daring and daring to say that if we are to create a community that will work, if we are to have a society in harmony, without conflict, it is important that all the inhabitants and actors in this country participate in the same arenas, not that each social group should build its own arenas to play on, and then in a way conflict with other groups. I have much more faith that if the various immigrant groups – if a call it minorities, if a call it the new countryman – could stand together in the arenas that voluntary organisations have built over a long period of time in Norway, it would significantly strengthen the integration effort in relation to implementing positive actions that distinguish the groups. Because that's what happens when you earmark funds for some groupings in this country. It's not going to integrate it, it's just going to make a difference. It is the Progress Party that is not going to happen, because then we are going to have conflicts. But the Progress Party will probably also stay here for a long, long time alone, until the situation in that quite country becomes so characteristic that we have to do some action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6430	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6433	SV will pursue a policy that goes in a different direction from that of the Government and the Advance Party. We want a society where knowledge and competence are the most important strategy to secure the economy both for individuals and for society. We want an environmental effort where we take global responsibility and provide local opportunities for people to behave environmentally friendly, for example. by investing in public transport. We want a working life that doesn't take health from people and make them sick. There shall be room for more people with poor health and more disabled people in the labour market. And we don't have to punish people financially because they're sick. SV will smooth out differences and eliminate poverty. Policies in all areas need to be designed so that there are no major inequalities and poverty, because poverty is unacceptable and makes society worse to live in for all. We also want the public sector to focus on cooperation and not on competition with each other. If we are to achieve this, political governance is required, and corruption and government are taking greater responsibility for the results in practice. When the map doesn't match the terrain, when we see what we're doing on the paper, we actually have to adjust the map because it's terrain that's right. The problem in Kommune-Norway today is not that everything is completely black and terribly bad. The problem is that much hangs and goes, and that much of what is good now, will experience cut and gone. And then we're at the core here, because this is about the standard difference between what most people have in private, and what we can now offer of standard on public goods. People feel that they don't keep goals, and they lose confidence. So we believe that we cannot deal with an immature public sector. We want a modern school that is so good and so diverse that everyone wants to have their children there. A school that is not good enough for my children is not good enough for anyone. We want a care that makes disabled, elderly and sick people safe, that they have the opportunity to get up whenever they want, go on do when they have to, shower when they feel they need it, and they need to have a quality we're familiar with, and we'd find ourselves in if it were us. We want a modern society that offers kindergarten on the day you need it, at a price you can pay. What in the world is what's so modern about a school where we have to go back to what it was in the 1960s, with just big classes where everyone has to sit at the same time, learn the exact same thing at the same time and in the same way, where you cut adapted training and there's not one penny to get out and visit the companies in the municipality. And then it's like that decay is contagious. If we neglect construction and we don't offer training in modern computer technology, we give one message to the children, and that's not important. But SV thinks the school is important. Now it becomes less relevant both for students and for parents, and that can't be the point. Because we don't accept that the primary school should not be good and keep that promise. Poor children, worn-out schools and people without a roof over their heads have nothing to do in a modern welfare society. In a modern welfare society, there are also good and free leisure and cultural activities where no children are excluded because they cannot afford to participate. We will bet hard on solutions that do not exclude. The Government and the Advance Party will increase the difference and repair the worst outbursts with needs-tested arrangements, where being modern in a way is synonymous with spending as much money as possible on their sails, and minimum money on others – put your heart into your wallet and let it go. SV does not want privatisation and outsourcing of services. In connection with the strike that is now, we have received messages from the Health Authority, where they clearly show what it is that privatization leads to. This leads to a level of pay that is far below what the public can offer. For what else would they compete? As a result, the tenders are so low that they cannot have enough jobs at all, so that they are so thinly manned, in the event of sickness and in ordinary sanctuaries, that they go beyond life and health. Several municipalities in the process have not even been aware that they are responsible for the operation of the private institutions. The disclaimer, the level of pay and staffing tell you why it pays to put off competition. And that's the recipe. I have to say that there is an SV wrangling disagreement. So here, thousands of underpaid ladies are going to wear off their health to give old people a minimum of care and care, because the government parties and the Progress Party think it's more important to tax relief. Yeah, we're getting caught. SV has also for many years proposed a special scheme for resource-intensive users of municipal health services. We want to lift them out of the framework and transfer this to a special grant item. They shall not be tested from year to year. Now the minister, without a word to Stortinget, has demanded an increase of up to NOK 700000 for the municipalities, and that means, in my opinion, that the local government sector has only received an extra charge of half a billion on this one small calculation operation. So how else is there in the municipalities, and the examples are many. In Engerdal, for example, they have to close the town hall, lock the door, and yet they don't have enough money. Or they have to close two primary schools, one of which is a Sami school, and the children have to bus for hours. It does not help with the freedom to dispose of the funds freer if there is no one to coordinate with within miles. And then the minister, when she's confronted with it, says that according to the indicator, they have enough money. But that's not the indicator we're talking about, we're talking about living kids who need a school offer. And if the map doesn't match the terrain, then it's probably the terrain that's right. So you might ask, I've got an article on my table today. It says that there will be Christmas in Yellow anyway – Yellow is a corresponding municipality. They have now received an exceptional of 7.5 million. kr by the Minister. We love them that money with all our heart. But what in the world is the difference between these municipalities? There's no difference between them. That's the same problem. But here you sit and give to someone and not to others. I have a suspicion of why that happens, but I will choose to let the minister answer for it first. So to the labour market. SV wants a working life that should not take health from people. We want to be at work as much as possible, and then we have to put up with the fact that some people get sick. We also have to bear in mind that someone needs to have small jobs, and that it is possible to combine work and social security without losing any of the social security. The central statistical agency and the ministry show that it pays to have people on the job, and that makes it easier for them to get to work. What, then, is the wisdom of no more getting it to get it into the labour market quickly? And what's the wisdom of getting rid of the day money of the unemployed for them to work more? On the other hand, the tax havens are as big as scratches for them with a lot of money. They can make millions of tax-free dividends on shares without having created it. But the poor have to get as little as possible, because they will only work if they become poor enough, while it seems to be completely opposite to the rich, according to the logic of this government. The rich will only work if they become rich enough. We very much disagree with this. So finally, it's almost Christmas. It was 2,000 years ago, and then, as it is now, there was no room in the inn for everyone. Then, as now, there was someone who did not get a hold of his head. This is the case in the Kingdom of Norway in 2002. There are 6,200 people registered homeless in Norway. There are few things that make me as upset as that, there are few things that taste as little of wealth and wealth as that. These are people who will never, ever, ever be able to obtain the million it's in proportion to be able to buy a home seam. They'll never get a loan. This will be until we can get them a place to live with reasonable rent. Then they have an opportunity to get up and stand on their own feet if they get a job. So it can only be solved politically, and it can be solved politically because it is a physical thing. A dwelling can be adopted, it can be built. This I think is one of the greatest shame in Prosperity Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6465	Once again, the President is somewhat uncertain as to whether there are proposals to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6468	As far as I am aware, all the proposals we are co-sponsored to have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6473	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6476	I agree with many of the views expressed by the representative Karin Andersen in his speech. And if we read the statement from the municipal committee, we see that the SV, the Central Party and the Labour Party have many common opinions about important areas of policy. This applies to the local authorities’ welfare obligations, to the outsourcing of competition, to the territorial and regional policies, and to labour market policies, in order to identify four important areas. I am clearly satisfied that the cooperation climate between the three opposition parties is good, and this is particularly important at a time when the country has a government with a marked Right profile. This political friendship promises well for the time being. However, I note that SV is not in charge of the Workers' Party and the Center Party in parts of the housing policy. SV opposes the proposal to increase the bump by 63 million. kr, which will raise the income stanchion to receive the bumper stand by NOK 30000. SV also opposes the proposal to allow 112 million. kr to increase the amount of housing provided to ensure the development of rental or low-injection dwellings. My question to Andersen's representative is therefore: why can't SV support the proposals, which will give a fairer housing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6491	I share with the representative Sandbergs See subsequent correction, page 1185 point of view that it is important that we now have a good cooperation climate in order to have an alternative. It's very important. But at the same time, I am also concerned that in it – you might say – the friendship that arises in it does not forget what we are doing, that is, we have to fight for the political issues we are dealing with. I believe that the policy and those for whom we are here are best served that we are clear on it, each of us too. Then to the housing policy. We are not opposed to increasing housing support, as the Labour Party has proposed, but we have spent our money in a slightly different way in our budget than the Labour Party has done. And it's probably not right that we're not involved in increasing the housing allowance. On the contrary, our commitment to the housing allowance is much greater than that of the Workers' Party, and it says a little about our arrangement on it. Because we've been more concerned with getting up the volume of cheap rentals and housing in general than the Workers' Party has been, because we believe that the imbalance in the market between supply and demand is so great that it's necessary to get an even higher speed in housing. Not least, you can also use the housing allowance to buy existing housing for those who need it. And that's very important -- if I can keep on talking about what I'm talking about instead -- because it's about the homeless. The government has just added 80 million. kr in its budget to help people who have problems living. But they must first have a place to live then, before they should be able to practice in it and get help. It's been our main priority when we set up our budget. So I think we're going to find a reasonable distribution on it gradually, but the rate of housing needs to be substantially up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6501	The representative Andersen of SV is a committed politician, but, in my view, stands for old-fashioned political solutions that would make it difficult for her to achieve her own political goals. The best thing to say about SV is that they have good goals that we can all agree on. But the party thus stands for a policy in which increasingly higher taxes and taxes and more public bureaucracy and governance are to solve all the problems that society has. The party of progress strongly disagrees with this. The main problem is that they are most concerned with taxing and redistributing goods, rather than facilitating jobs and real value creation. Now, when they are going to take DKK 8.5 billion in increased taxes and taxes to create an even larger public sector, I have to say that we already have such a large public sector, and there are many who think it needs to be slimmed down, but here we have a party that will extend one from the already large public sector to an even larger one. We also know that an emerging business life as a basis for good jobs is the most important foundation for the well-being of the welfare state. Where is the SV sending its bill of SEK 8.5 billion extra to the municipalities? What are the enterprises or jobs that are expected to increase taxes and are at risk of being closed down to finance the large public consumption of money by the SV? And what will $8.5 billion in increased public consumption mean for the dollar and interest rate if they are to be used for increased public demand for e.g. labour and services? Have any calculations been made in the Swedish economy at all as to how inflationary such an uplifting of the public economy could be?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6510	I do not really have any expectations that the Progress Party should have gone into our overall arrangement and looked at it very carefully. But it is that our arrangement has great tax relief at the bottom of people with low incomes. We've zeroed out all of the increases in propensity – which is a disease tax, or a tax on being sick – that the Progress Party has now entered into. We have a correct increase in the tax for those who earn the most. It is possible that the Progress Party believes that it is those who earn the most and who have dividends from shares of several million dollars, who need the most money. But that doesn't mean SV. I can't get a feeling the millionaires are suffering. I'm much more concerned with school, much more concerned that old people should not lie down without help for hours, much more busy that we get a public transport that allows people to get to and fro at work in a sensible way, and much more busy getting homes for people, so that people can have a real choice, sail make reasonable choices, choose a more reasonable dwelling so that they can handle their expenses sail. So it's clear that we have a complete setup. In addition to that, our tax regime also has some tightening in relation to business. That's absolutely right. And most of it goes in the direction of environmental policy – there are green taxes, which we believe are right, because it will turn our business into an environmentally friendly and forward-looking direction. An old-fashioned business that pollutes, is at all not modern or has future characteristics. So tax policy probably does not agree with the SV and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6517	Millions in tax-free dividends, says SV, and knows it's clumsy. SV knows that dividends have 28 pst. taxes, such as other capital income, which is the tax that a person has when receiving interest in the bank. SV allows billions of billions for all good purposes, and SV is busy by working for all. At the same time, SV has no sense of helping the business that earns income for the country and obtains work for the most people. On the contrary, double taxes and increases in taxes are typical of SV, and 7 billion dollars in tax increases are in this budget, and even at a time when conditions of competition worsen, businesses in rural and urban areas are becoming alarmingly depressed or moving out. This is a decommissioning package for our business. Does SV believe that we can live by cutting each other, or by running care for the elderly for that matter? Does SV believe that the enterprises in any case will provide people with work, or will everyone ideally work in the public sector? How are we gonna finance it? This is not related - sorry! There is a lot to be financed, but not even a limit on the cost of recovery measures, SV will set. SV certainly believes that it is almost irresponsible to set a ceiling on recovery costs of NOK 50 000. Of a total of 90,000 who got a re-entry in 2001, only 1,800 wanted to be framed by this $50,000 stack. Does SV not see that the supply can be expensive and that we can help more? Although it's 1,800 it's about this time, those who really need more money, are actually the screens. But doesn't SV see that we need to get more of a job and a future, by preventing expensive offers from having suction pipes in the state register?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6528	First of all, I'd like to apologize for calling Sandal as Sandberg's representative. I didn't mean to. Then to the representative Apelthun Seele. There was a lot of work to do in that article. But the SV's overall policy is to make us less oil dependent, a policy with a focus on green industries in the future, a tax policy that promotes environmentally friendly activities rather than other activities, we have a education and research strategy that is the only sensible strategy if we are to succeed in the future and have something to live on. We cannot live by protecting shipowners and all those who serve well today. In the case of tax-free dividends: Yes, on the part of the recipient, it is tax-free. In the company it is taxed 28 pst. Thus, for employees, employers are first taxed, and afterwards employees pay taxes. We just want the same fair system, so that a dollar you earn on honest work, is taxed like a penny you earn on moving paper. It is not that all the money that individuals take out in dividends is necessarily put into value-making work. We don't know anything about that. We have no idea what's going on with that money. Here it's about prioritizing what we think is most important. And I have to say that I'm quite shocked when the Christian People's Party believes it's more important to give tax-free dividends of millions of dollars to people who have high incomes from before, than to get a roof over their heads, the most elementary for people in cold Norway, where we know that people don't have it. I think it's a big shame!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6539	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6542	Then it is quite clear: there is no tax-free dividend. The 2003 budget has a main focus, tight enough for interest to go down, and it has been closed. It is very important for the competitive industry, for employment, for optimism, for you and me and everyone who has borrowed money for home and home – and not least for Kommune-Noreg. Every half percent means 600 million. This is said to be a better local economy, and there is good reason to expect that interest rates will go further. The government and the majority in Stortinget have done their part of the job, and we are pleased with that. That doesn't mean that the Christian People's Party doesn't understand the tough reality that many municipalities experience. But it is actually a huge increase in the municipal budget. A total of NOK 3.6 billion has been allocated to municipalities, and the government has given priority to the local economy. But the cost growth is staggering when kindergarten staff get a salary increase of 11 p.m. I do not envy any increase in wages, but as it is in my municipality, it is almost impossible to follow up. It's a very important task for the Government, together with the parties in the business world, to break the pay and price spiral that we're in and that we haven't grown enough productivity to defend. There are many positive elements in the Government's budget and in comparison with the Progress Party. More than 3.6 billion dollars for municipalities can be a happy message for someone. I am now getting feedback from the budget meeting with a happy ending. The ball is actually safe and care for the elderly as well. The improvement of business conditions is also positive. It's important in today's tough reality. The fact that 2 billion can be used to refurbish schools, and that the House Bank has a historically high loan framework of 14.5 billion dollars, is also positive. This is a budget that the Christian People's Party can live with. In fact, we are also proud of it in many areas. We're proud to be able to do it. It is only positive that all those who now neglect the announcement of the purchase party can give gifts free of tax to voluntary Norway – a total of NOK 6000 in 2003. Then there will be profitability. Nowhere does the crowns grow more efficiently than when the voluntary organizations take care of them, to help those who need it. The big city bill is being passed on. Next year we will also have a top funding scheme for heavy users. This year, the shields for this purpose are more than 600 million. kr. So a little incurrence: 14 municipalities got a higher employer fee after the EFTA judgment a couple of years ago. The store has decided that these would be compensated for this for three years. Last year, compensation was set at 20 million. kr, and in the year, the last year of the compensation period, he is not in place. He should have been, after the Christian People's Party's opinion. I would like the Council of State to make the necessary redeployment arrangements for the previous decision of the Storting to be kept up to date. The government has an active district policy. The most important thing for District Norway is definitely a good framework for business, not least the competitive part that lasts in the districts. Both income tax, interest and a simpler Norway are very important for District Norway to thrive and continue to send its surplus to the more central parts of the country. And even if it could be desirable to have more public funds for district action, district policy is more about it than that. The government is now implementing a reform that gives the county councils the right to dispose of the regional and regional policy instruments. That's what we think is going to have a positive effect. The person who wears the shoe knows the best where he prints. It is a modernisation that I believe will mobilise development and growth. This government has also moved state jobs out of Oslogryta to a degree that no one has ever tried before. That's good. This budget is an uplift for the House Bank. The action plan for the care of the elderly is now extended to 38 400 units. There are 14,000 more than what was the starting point, and a total of 3,000 of these are going to be built next year. Finally, I must mention that in the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, there is a point about Human Rights Service. After the agreement was concluded, we are familiar with the fact that the Control and Constitutional Committee has asked for a briefing from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs on the organisation. We expect, of course, that the Minister of Local Affairs is waiting for our proposal to be clarified in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6568	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6571	First, I would like to ask you to bring up the Workers' Party's proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I forgot about it. Now the government is forcing the municipalities to carry out painful cuts that affect the elderly. In many municipalities, this affects those who have had a long life and need help. With the municipal minister at the head, the government, including the Progress Party, has ordered cut-offs in home help services, and they have ordered poorer offers to the old-age homes. A survey carried out by KS shows that municipalities across the country are being forced to cut the offer to the elderly. In Ullensaken, the provision of activities for the elderly is reduced. In Moss, the inhabitants themselves have to pay for cremation. The municipalities can no longer afford this. On Ringerike, in Larvik and in Kragerø, the nursing homes are being built down. There are many examples. Many older people around are insecure about the provision of care provided by the municipality. The strangest proposals come from many desperate politicians, not least politicians from the Christian People's Party. But then it's worth noting that the representative Hogsnes from the Right said in his post that it's just a priority. They don't have to cut. Does the representative Apelthun Sæle agree that this is so simple? The government has proposed, through its proposal for a State budget, a series of cuts that affect unfairly. The government has, among other things: the burial aid has been removed, and the Government has made the medicines more expensive for the elderly and disabled. It would have been possible for the Christian People's Party to choose differently – more well-being and a little less tax relief. One that Anita Apelthun Seele knows is the rapporteur in Marker, and he says that we should just sit in government to support the Right, there is a limit to how much pain we can bear. Does the representative Apelthun Sæle agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6580	Yes, there is a good deal of signal from Kommune-Noreg that cuts the budget, and with the price increase that has been, it is unfortunately not to be avoided. There are also opportunities for conversion, for modernisation and for better use of the resources that actually exist, in such a way that I believe that the vast majority of people can protect the most important areas. What was important to the Government was to break the pay and price spiral that destroyed not only businesses and outsource industries, you and me, but perhaps the most for the Municipality of Norway. We focused on bringing down the interest rate, so now we've closed down. It helps the local economy. Yesterday – or yesterday – we got a raise in the municipal economy of 600 million. kr, and it's significant. If we get more of this kind of lifting, it's going to make it possible for a billion-dollar experiment to replace what can make the cost growth smaller. That's our focus, that's our favorite, and that's our policy. There are also good examples, and I would like to underline that. I've got some of them today. One has managed, however, to transform operations in a way that is better for schools, health and the economy. And then the representative brought out the tomb support. This budget has a very high level of summit against those who need it the most. I myself have been in a situation where the family has received burial aid. But we didn't have to. But I know that many people need this support, because a graveyard costs a lot more than NOK 4000. Those who need more, they'll get it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6592	The representative Apelthun Seele is a strong champion of the County Municipality – in her case Hordaland. I note that the representative in his statement also makes the positive point in relation to the fact that the county council will now have a new role, that it will become a so-called development actor. I also record that the representative points out how important it is, because in her eyes it is state politicians who know where the shoe prints when it comes to nutrition. My first challenge to the representative is therefore: Does Anita Apelthun Sæle feel that the county councils have succeeded in other ways in their feeding efforts up to now? Does the representative see that the county municipality has created jobs that generate returns over the 15-20 years they have invested in industry? Or could there be other ways of doing this and setting a different framework for business, possibly with regard to taxes and taxes, so that a person gets a business tax? In the case of districts, it is important to include them, for example: the fuel charge. Is it possible to look at that kind of thing? Does not the representative of Apelthun Seele now see that in the whole country the county municipalities are run as test rabbits? Some have to try parliamentaryism, some have to try unity, some have to try large-scale, and some have to engage in inter-municipal county cooperation. The county councils now spend $10 million on trial projects, money that might have been spent on health, care and school in the primary municipalities, if we had put the county councils down as our own management team.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6603	Yes, that's true. I have a fight for the county councils. That is why I strongly disagreed with and deeply disagreed with the move of the health sector and the hospitals from the county councils to a state level. I disagree with several of these movements, because I mean, and I know that the county councils were a saving joint. That's what we're seeing now when the companies have taken over. I think the county councils have been a saving point in most areas they've been responsible for, precisely because they're closer to the situation, the institutions they're supposed to run, than what we are, for example. is here at Stortinget, or what a councillor is. So now, the county council – and we're bowing to multiple decisions, there's nothing to do with it – is going to be a development agency, and I hope it can have a positive impact on business in the different counties. Yes, I have a seat in business administration, in business funds. I have been in contact with a lot of entrepreneurs who needed a handshake to get started, and who today have thriving business. They say that it helped them in the county at the time was the basis of the work that is flourishing today. So there's a lot of trials that are going on and on. When creating new shapes, it may be important that we allow different ways to solve problems. At least it can defend the fact that there are a lot of trials. I think one will come to the conclusion that what matters to the West, perhaps even the East, is the best. But that's what evolution shows. There are considerable differences between the different parts of the country, and therefore we can and should also accept that there are different solutions one to the seventh and the last will choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6612	There's at least one thing I've learned from Anita Apelthun Seal, and it's that I'll never, never, never, if my party sits in government, defend the politics of the other government parties with as much glow as she does. The reason why I say this is the following: Never before while the Christian People's Party has been in government, the municipalities have been forced to reduce and force them to cut as much service as they do this year. It tells me that it's not exactly this Christian People's Party is most fan of doing. This year, it's crowded in the municipal sector. There are clear messages from all the Christian People's Party rapporteurs that this is not the policy of the Christian People's Party, at least it is not a policy that is on the side of the people. This is a tight budget, but it's just blueberries against what's going to happen in 2004. We know that we're getting more unemployment, which is going to lead to more expenditure, we know that sick leave doesn't seem to slow anything down completely enormous, and these two things are going to eat up some of the public expenditure. And then when we know that next year the biggest tax reliefs promised by the Right are to be given priority, I wonder how it is going to go with the Christian People's Party. Then is my question to Anita Apelthun Seele: Where does the frontier go and how small is the community's share of the value creation going to be here in the country before the Christian People's Party says stop? The Christian People's Party wants a balance between public and private consumption. It does not want to be right, they want a smaller public sector. Then my question is, what kind of starvation of the municipalities is the Christian People's Party willing to accept to pay for the Right Tax Lifts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6623	It was nice to hear that one had glow, at least when one feels something like a dry stick. It's very good, it's very good. The municipalities have saved before. I've had the joy of being in this dump for nine years. Not many years have passed since the underbalance in Kommune-Noreg amounted to NOK 11 billion. It was KS's numbers. Now KS is the number of 6.5 billion. There was something better on the road. The county also has savings. At all times they have saved. I put in something that we call the Urias Selection, and the representative might know history of Uriah? We were sent to the front to take the noise, the unpleasant cuts and the difficult decisions, so it's not the first time you've saved. Then I thought the representative from SV had studied economics. It's like when there's a risk of unemployment, and when we see that there's a danger that companies will shut down and move out, it also has something to do with the framework conditions here at home. That's why this government actually wants to improve the business environment, and that's what we're doing when we talk about tax havens. The representative of SV has seen it right when he points out that the Christian People's Party wants good public services, and that's what we're going to try to take care of in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6634	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6637	Within a tight budget, the municipal sector is a priority of the Government. In the budget agreement with the Progress Party, an additional plus of NOK 1 billion was granted to the local government sector. Growth is about the same level as he has been throughout the 1990s under varying governments. That's why there's a lot of light propaganda in this case, especially from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which both have been in government responsibility and government councils in the Ministry of Local Affairs. An honest analysis should dampen the tone of some of these, who have as much responsibility for underfunded reforms as the other party. I note that in various debates on the budget, representatives from the Labour Party have also admitted it. The fact that the Socialist Left Party can promise the most to the municipalities is also a little side by side, when they finance the gifts with billions of dollars in defence and with a huge tax increase for business – far away from a realistic pluralist policy. According to newspaper headlines in the Newspaper on 10 December, the three parties will join together on a new course for the municipalities as an alternative to the government's tax bill. It is difficult to see such a common course in this setting, other than for swearing. Both in the level of promises and not least in the funding of them cracks the three parties. Nor is it about alternatives to taxation, as it says in the newspaper, but about monthly tax increases, not for the rich, but for people with low and medium incomes and for business. The main difference in municipal policy is not between those who want to strengthen and those who want to weaken the municipal economy, but between those who see that the welfare society needs to be renewed if it is not to be confused, and those who have no other solution than to cash more money into all public activities and finance it with new burdens on ordinary wage earners and a business that needs better and not worse working conditions. We can talk about a social democratic structural conservatism from the three parties that now – perhaps – will cooperate. The left fully understands the problems many municipalities have, and our government has asked the government to work to correct the imbalance that is there, which does not come from lower incomes, but from a stronger increase on the expenditure side. This work is being done by the Government, and it is therefore unnecessary for the Storting to ask for this, as one of the proposals today sounds. The challenge of correcting the imbalances in the local economy must be remedied to the opposition. A lot of the lost freedom to act locally comes from the override that happens from this room. It weakens both local democracy and local authorities’ ability to solve the problems where they are going to be solved – and the remoteness there. A radical and forward-looking policy for the municipalities is to release the municipalities and let the local self-government go. Basic to the attitudes of local self-government and the government of the people are threatened that the peoples of the municipalities themselves know best how things should be done. The wit is evenly distributed, and it knows best where the shoe prints, which he wears. It is a great misinterpretation to believe that ear marking control leads to greater similarity in service provision. Very often it is the opposite, as ear marking often also requires belongings. It is the rich municipalities that get the full use of the scheme. There are some good words about this from different opposition parties in the setting, but in practice it is the opposite. In its strong eagerness to override the rule and mark verbal action in matters for which local communities are responsible, the opposition systematically undermines local self-government, local freedom and local political debate. Without a provider using this policy, problems in your local government cannot be solved. It has been silent about the rural policy of this budget house. Last year, it was the government that was attacked – on a thin, factual basis, after the Left's opinion. This year, it is a'social budget' — on an equal footing. With the high level of energy prices, and likely to stay out of winter, many low-income households will face major challenges. The debate on a budget earlier today also focused very strongly on current electricity prices. The left is very pleased that we have recorded against the government, has given the result that the municipal minister has today warned that the bus pay scheme needs to be targeted to compensate for an increase in the electricity price, and that the rates of light and heat are being adjusted. The government is taking new steps in regional and regional policy, and is using the whole country in a way that the previous government was not close. It's left very naked. The left, of course, supports the budgetary position and the proposals supported by the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6668	The greatest difference between the Labour Party's budget proposal and what is agreed tonight is the commitment to our common well-being. The government party and the Progress Party make painful cuts that happen to young and old alike. Skulars are laid down, there are several elephants in the classes, and there is less special education. Older people who have a long life and need help get a reduced supply both at the institution and when it comes to home help services – and so the Left's representative calls this easy-to-find propaganda! It is not easy to put the spotlight on the results of the policy adopted by the Government Party and the Advance Party tonight. The Government Party's response to the challenge is: more privatisation, more outsourcing and the strange word "challenge". I would like to ask the representative Vihovde: is there a lot of profit to be gained in the municipal sector after the Left's opinion? The municipalities have sufficient competence to enter into agreements with heavy private operators, for example, or the Left wants today's municipal structure to be radically changed through e.g.: aggregations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6677	I have followed the debate, and have recorded that representatives of the Workers' Party in this debate are about to owe the government parties to have schools laid down, that the old people are both hurt and difficult – all the cuts that will come in different municipalities are therefore the government's responsibility. And I don't agree with that. We have added an increase to the municipal sector, there have been 3,000 new places in the older sector, and there are 2 billion extra for the training of the schools, and municipal politicians need to be given the opportunity to prioritise within the framework they have. Then I am convinced that some municipalities will be able to streamline, some municipalities will be able to outsource parts of their services, save money and spend money on users, on the inhabitants of their municipalities. The most important thing must be to provide good services to the inhabitants. It is not so important for anyone to provide these services, in the opinion of the Left. And so it's that some small municipalities will probably have competition issues, with more efficiency. But there is an incredible amount of creative work going on in the municipality of Norway when it comes to cooperation, and the biggest challenge facing many of these municipalities is simply to get competent personnel for the service production they are going to be facing. The left does not want any municipal approximations. The left is concerned that there should be a local democracy, that there should be closeness to the citizens. But when it comes to cooperation, efficiency and competition, we believe that there is money to spend on providing greater well-being to the citizens of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6688	If the left believes that the wit is evenly distributed between us sitting here in this hall, and for example. Those who sit on the municipal boards, I find it strange that the left no longer listens to what local government representatives from the left also say, because there is unanimity in the local government sector that this bill does not go together, and that is the problem. That's why SV is willing to look at other revenues. We think care for the elderly is more important than tax relief for the richest millionaires. If we look at that, they're going to have revenues over 20 million. SEK is those with an average dividend of 21 million. kr, and it is those who are now going to get all of this money free of tax. Are they the ones that need it the most? Does the Left really think that it's those who need the money the most? Then I have another challenge to the Left, because the Left has been tidy and proper in immigration, asylum and refugee policy before. I don't know if the Left knows what the Government is doing now, but what you're doing is for example. to say that all those who come here on a humanitarian basis should be denied family reunification – and ‘that’s it’. In our speech about forced marriage and action against it, the government said in its action plan that it should propose dependability in order to fight against forced marriage, and then it was about family reunification with marriage. All of a sudden, it's everybody's. And not only that, but the reason is that it's going to get fewer, not that it's going to be less coercion and violence. It just has to get fewer, and it's the left hand side now. In addition, the Left is involved in cutting Norwegian education for asylum seekers on reception. Here the left is not to recognize.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6699	The representative Andersen started by asking if the left got input from his local populace who is now snooping together a budget. Yes, we do, and so we have asked the Government to look at the underbalance of the local economy, and that work has been started by the Government. In addition, our people in the municipalities have also asked for a tight budget, a budget that allows interest rates to go down, and that the krone price may be weakened, so that business doesn't lose a lot of jobs in District Norway. Especially for my part of Norway, which has a lot of competitive business, and for people who live and work in pig-grown areas, it will be a disaster if these jobs are laid down. And yesterday there was an interest rate cut of 0.5 pst. That means 400 million. kr more to the municipalities that have large debts and thus receive less interest. The representative, Andersen, is talking about giving tax credits to the business community. Dividends on taxes and dividends on shares are mostly ploughed back to business. If you put the money in the bank, you don't get to be taxed that much of the interest, but if you put the money in the axes and take it out, you're going to have to be taxed a lot harder. The biggest challenge we're facing is actually to get people to invest in business, to invest in new jobs, and then our business has to have conditions of competition that are good. It also means increasing income for municipalities. When it comes to the last bit, we want you to document that you can support yourself. This is an important measure to avoid coercion and to prevent young girls from being forced to marry in order to get men into Norway. It is one of the best bytes to prevent more selected and more forced marriages.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6709	I noticed that the representative Vihovde was satisfied with what the Left has done in the government. She was content with what was being debated today, that is, the community arrangement. As Karin Andersen was in his line, this comes in a bit of a strange light when one knows what Left's members around the country think. During the so-called vocabulary uprising earlier this year, there were several left spokesmen who had a high profile and who said that the frames of the municipalities are too small. They can't keep track of basic service provision. Yesterday, in the newspaper Firda, we read the following headline: «Gaular Left soon erased». Gauls Left was a strong party layer, with active and prominent members. Now it's a handful again, and at their annual meeting they didn't even manage to choose a new board. Mayor and Chief Selection Officer of Gaul left, and one of them says in the newspaper Firda: «I disagree with the policy of the Left. I've never been happy with government cooperation. I thought, as we see in retrospect, that it would be dominated by the Right, and that thought I don't think is the salvation of society." Furthermore, it says: ‘He doesn’t understand what the Norwegian people have done that is about to miss out on reworked services around the municipalities.’ The leader of the Førde Left says the same thing today. He says, ‘If the Left Central does not change the course, more people will follow the representative of the local government Per-Magne Bell out of the party.’ My questions to the representative Vihovde will then be: How can the representative Vihovde praise the policy left is to lead the government, when the party's representatives around the country give so clear feedback that this is the wrong course? Shouldn't the Left Central listen a bit more to the members?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6732	I want to grasp some of the previous line, because I did not get a response to the question of asylum policy. The left has stood for, and it showed the previous government Bondevik, a much greater openness when it was spelled out to get more people into Norway who wanted a port, who wanted protection, and who needed help. That policy has continued our government, but at the same time one must take action to get those who come without a foundation into Norway, in order to spend the money on those who really need help. And that shows the government. Then to the representative, Ringstad. I'm very happy that I'm in a party where it's very high below the roof, and where our members, whether they're some with us or not some with us, can give us clear messages. They've done that in Gauls. We've listened to them, even though we're not quite a few of them in this particular case. But they've also had other things that they've been busy about, and other approaches to why they think the government is on the wrong track, and we're trying to pass this on to ours. But with an extra $1 billion for the municipalities and with an interest rate cut of $400 million. kr Kommune-Noreg will receive SEK 1.4 billion more for next year. It's our representatives out in Municipality-Noreg naked with it. When we can also get a business that thrives, that goes well, and that also gives rise to tax revenue, both directly and by people having jobs, which in turn gives tax revenue, it's positive. We've seen a trend in the last half of the year in which business has been in business, where industry, especially in the face of competition, has had problems. It has provided reduced tax revenues that have also been lost by Municipality of Norway. That is why we are satisfied with the budget. Of course, you can always want more money for many good purposes. It also wants the left. But at least we see that in the situation that we're in now, with the need to reduce the dollar rate, this is an important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6741	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6744	The unemployment rate is increasing as in several areas there is a shortage of labour. This challenge is solved not by sitting down, by cutting daily money for those who are free, or by not allowing enough resources to be allocated to Aetat. The response to this challenge must be qualification and dissemination measures by increasing the number of action sites proposed by the Labour Party and by following up and intensifying work on an inclusive working life where Aetat is a central player. The Labour Party believes that the state budget does not rise to face the situation of increasing unemployment and several bankruptcies. Our alternative budget would have been a much better ride for lower interest rates and weaker crowns, which in the next round would have been good for our export-right industry. The Labour Party believes that the State should contribute more to innovation and innovation. Therefore, we suggested a work and business package of approximately NOK 2.3 billion. In addition, more attention needs to be paid to regional and industrial development. The solution will not be to shave the SND or to thin the municipal sector. The Government Party has received good help from the Progress Party in this process. The unemployment rate, according to today's recent figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, will approach 130 000 unemployed in 2004. In addition to cutting the daily allowance by about 10 pst. will keep the same lots of people working more overtime. This is a paradox! The government announces an increase in unemployment, while the majority take money from unemployed people. The Labour Party refuses to take money from the unemployed. The proposal is both unsocial and unfair. The Government Party and the Progress Party will also not support the Workers' Party's proposal to strengthen Aetat and to establish 1,700 new action sites. Active labour market policies are important. Therefore we must build a bridge from the queue of the unemployed to the available jobs. Among other things, this can be done by qualifying and training those in line. All studies show that this has a very good effect. The local government sector receives a very tight budget. This will lead to the loss of important welfare services in many places. Important welfare areas such as care and education will be the two areas that will suffer the most. In addition, municipalities have experienced a fall in the stock exchange, and this is affecting the pension chapter. The working party's alternative budget would be clearly better for the local government sector, both through the income system and the challenge associated with pension costs. The budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party marks a stronger right turn in Norwegian policy. This will gradually take our country away from our social model and more in the direction we see in other right-hand countries, increasing differences from school start through larger transfers to private schools, and increasing the distinctions in health care by giving insurance and wallets more control. The Progress Party has its mark on this budget. Through its structural requirements, the Progress Party has had an impact on a more aggressive privatisation policy. This will affect all public service provision. It's enough to identify areas that are called challenge law. The Labour Party proposed to strengthen Aetat by 50 million in its alternative budget. In addition to the Government's proposal. Etate must be able to solve the important tasks the etate is intended to do. Such a situation is today, with increasing numbers of unemployed people and demands to get more of those who are on repatriation back to work, the establishment must have a better framework to work within than the government party and the Progress Party are willing to give. The Labour Party has presented its alternative to the right-wing budget adopted today. We have prioritised work, we have prioritised well-being, and we have prioritised social security over new benefits to those who have the most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6775	There is a red thread going through the government's budget proposal. Keywords are tightness, target fixing and security of hit. The opposition did not save this harvest on the powder in the attacks on, among other things. the tightness of the draft budget of the Cooperative Government. Nor in this debate have I recorded that the notes have become less gloomy, even though the interest rate has now been reduced by half a percentage point. But that would probably be hoping too much. I am pleased that our policy is working and that we see rapid results. So also in the field of immigration, as in the last year has been marked by many changes. I am very pleased that the municipal minister has put a critical searchlight on how we have managed immigration policy in this country. Targeting and target security are also being focused on here, and I am pleased to note that there is a broad majority, a little different, in this Chamber for the policy pursued. It is a unanimous committee that supports the many measures taken by the Government to reduce the large number of groundless asylum seekers. Similarly, everyone sees it as positive that the UDI and the police cooperate on the deportation of rejected asylum seekers. It is also a unanimous committee that meets the Government’s work on legal protection against ethnic discrimination and that will take action against forced marriage. Asylum policy is on the right track. The large influx of people with groundless applications has led the Government to focus continuously on the effectiveness of the entire foreign administration. Different receptions have been established for suspected groundless asylum seekers and measures have been taken such as speeding up proceedings, partial repeal of the so-called 15-month rule, new and creative information measures and faster returns. In the Committee's budgetary procedure, the importance of increased efforts in this field has been further underlined. The Government is calling for 48 hours of proceedings for groundless asylum seekers and for proposals for new measures on transport by 1 March 2003, as has been explained here in the past. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of SV, points to the policy objective as being regulated immigration, the protection of refugees and equality, participation and integration into society. There is little in the world situation that suggests that fewer people will seek asylum. That is understandable, but the increase in globalisation means that we must be able to manage asylum policy in a good way. It is a fact that Norwegian society is going to be more diverse and multicultural in the future, and policy needs to take this into account. Being Norwegian is absolutely necessary to participate in Norwegian society. We have long given funds for language training, but we have not asked questions about how the funds have been disposed of. The mandatory hours have been used very differently from the municipality to the municipality, not always as concentrated as desirable. It is therefore gratifying that tomorrow, the Minister of State will invite the press conference on the introduction programmes to provide more intensive language training combined with work. It'll be a good move on. There are also very good reasons to look at current practices, as the Government has now proposed. Applicants for asylum will not receive Norwegian training until the application for asylum has been granted. This is justified because the time taken to deal with the matter is faster than before. In addition, it is possible to introduce other activity offers to asylum seekers awaiting a decision. The government has set a total of 5.2 million. kr for this purpose. Of course, those asylum seekers who receive a positive decision must receive Norwegian training quickly. I must say that I think the opposition is dramatically dramatizing this issue. Because I record that both the SV and the Workers' Party are strongly critical of the Government's proposal, but I would like to note that in the immigration field too, resources must be used as properly as possible based on an overall assessment. Then we are back to the starting point again – the need for a tight budget, a budget that provides a basis for interest reduction and that will improve the competitive conditions of business, and a budget that will ensure valuable industrial and district jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6796	During this fall and winter, the debate on the Norwegian municipality economy has been partly strong, and it has been marked by many and high calls for lack of money in the municipalities, probably not without reason. The party of progress and the government parties have therefore agreed to give an extra DKK 1 billion to the local government sector in addition to what the government proposes. We're doing this to give municipalities better opportunities to solve the welfare problems they're set to solve. Then the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have proposed to grant even more money than the Progress Party and the government parties believe is sufficient. This funding race on which party here at Stortinget proposes the most money to the municipalities seems pathetic to me, and I think it is very little constructive, and it is very little future-oriented. I therefore strongly distance myself from the unilateral focus of the socialist parties on the fact that there is only more money for the municipal sector that is crucial. Unfortunately, the challenges of Kommune-Norges are not so simple that they are only a few billion extra kroner, and this will mean that everything will be so much better, as the Workers' Party and SV put it. If we are to improve the health status of Norwegian municipalities, deeper structural changes are needed on the operational and organisational sides rather than more money. Several have been blind to the explanation that there is no link between the tasks assigned to the local government on the one hand, and the resources allocated to the municipalities on the other hand by the state to solve the problems. It should also be said that there is not enough connection between the tasks the municipality is set to do, and the way the municipalities solve the problems. In Norway, a number of public monopoly institutions were developed in the last century. We had the NRK monopoly, the telemonopoly, the post-monopoly, the wine monopoly, the employment service monopoly, etc., and we still have in practice a public monopoly on school, health and care. The private elements in these areas are completely marginal and are being intensively countered by several teams at present. Very few countries spend as much money on public benefits as Norway does. Nevertheless, the public services we receive are in the form of school, health and care, of a rather mediocre or even declining quality. We must be able to demand that any public service should be of such good quality that we think it is worth every taxpayer we pay for it. If we are to beat the public sector, we must accept that public welfare services should be able to withstand competition from the private sector. If we do not accept such healthy competition between the public and private sectors, we will undermine the ability of public welfare institutions to develop quality and efficiency. And then they lose. The public must understand that there is a clear link between what is paid for in taxes and taxes, and the quality of what is returned in the form of good schools, increased road construction, better health and care, etc. All parties in this Chamber want the public to continue to play an important role in our future welfare system. Of course, the main device shall continue to be that the role of public authorities is to finance our welfare production, but the actual performance of the service production can be carried out by private and public employees as well. A well-functioning welfare market is the best guarantee that we get the maximum effect of every tax crown that we put into the operation of the public sector. For the future, therefore, we need to ensure that public welfare services are continuously stimulated for cost-efficiency and good quality through a free welfare market. I am pleased that there is now finally some progress in that way. I am therefore pleased that the Progress Party is together with the government parties to really do something, so that we can realize what I have pointed out here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6820	The budget is actually in the box, and that is probably the main reason why there is not a mouth in the press department. Then the only reason for this debate is to try to get an explanation of what's going on with our society, and why. The right, together with the Progress Party, has brought with it the Christian People's Party and the Left on the largest dedemocratic process in Norway since the 1980s. Had I been sitting on the Stortinget then and having experience, I would call it purely 'hatcherism'. How do I justify this? The Sem Declaration, the National Budget and the Municipal Budget state: ‘The purpose of the co-operation management is to keep the real underlying expenditure growth in the State budget for the period below the growth of the mainland Norway value creation.’ What does this mean? This means that, as the social shock grows and grows, the community's share will be smaller and smaller for each passing year. This means that the proportion of social shocks that the community democratically manages in large, county and local government is decreasing. That's what people notice. We have 6,200 homeless people, but with the government's bet, we might be able to get them into a house in ten years. It helps little in the winter cold. When rapporteurs try to fulfill the election campaign's promises of better schooling, they start cutting school trips and teacher-accompaniment lessons, if they don't just rationalize the whole school. Is it more or less democracy reaches 80 pst. of the municipalities in the world’s richest countries have the choice between school cuts and care for the elderly? Yes, but the individual must have freer choices, says the Government. People have to keep more money on their own. It's more democratic. That could be a point. If all the people in this country had got the same amount in tax bills in dollars and dollars, and if the differences in that way had become less between the rich and the poor, so that more could choose more yourself, it could have been a point. But that is not the policy of the Government. Last year, the 226 richest took out NOK 5 billion in dividends. Each of these richest 226 got a $2.4 million tax bill. kr. So to say none of them with income less than NOK 400,000, i.e. above 90 pst. by its population, benefited from the removal of this tax by the Government. Even the most naive Right-politician well agrees that Kjell Inge Smoke and Trygve Hegnar have more power over their own and others' lives than a lonely unemployed who have to go to Hauketo Social Office to get the economy to hang up. When we then know that the differences between people both in terms of income and in terms of wealth are increasing because of the government's policy, I say, when the government wants to have less sharing, those who need solidarity lose. Then also those who need it the most, and like the government later, lose as if they're busy helping. The Bondevik government conducts a policy for smaller communities, greater differences and less democracy. When the Government and the Advance Party are united about a growth in private consumption that is seven times as high as the growth in the consumption of the community, it has consequences for municipalities each year. And we've just seen the beginning, because the government has promised to run this policy at least until 2005. Then go to work. What kind of working life are we about to create? In an article in the evening post, Asbjørn Grimsmo says: ‘There is a brutal working life for some’. ‘people experience greater demands, more responsibility and more work beyond their usual working hours.’ Several people become mentally ill, and for the 25-40 age group, there had been an increase of 34.5% in the first six months. That's pretty dramatic numbers. Victor Norman produced a public sector modernisation paper that stated that total cost assessments were to be carried out by reorganization. If you changed a rule to save money in public, put more money on others, the government wouldn't go for the changes. It was a clever principle. Why don't we apply that principle to rule changes in working time regulations? There were no impact assessments to assess the cost to society or to individuals if we carried out the overtime increase. When we allow companies to exploit their employees, so that public expenditure on disability benefits, both employees and society lose large revenues. Tom Colbjørnsen, co-professor of Victor Norman at the School of Business, said: ‘Marketing rights will bring benefits to consumers in terms of lower prices and better quality’. ‘What we win as consumers, we risk having to pay back in the event of fewer privileges at work, and by providing a larger number of professional lives.’– Either they are disabled or others. And on the other hand, ‘We have to choose here, and we have to choose consciously.’ The government has elected, and the Socialist Left Party is in stark disagreement with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6871	Yesterday's notification of 0.5 pst. interest rate decrease is a happy message to Kommune-Norway. The interest reduction means 400 million. NOK in minor expenditure of the local government sector. It is precisely expenditure growth that is the main problem for the municipalities and creates the imbalance in the municipal economy. Although several factors are involved in the adjustment of interest rates, yesterday's interest rate reduction shows that the government's tight budget line is correct and yields results. The attitude of the Municipal Committee refers to many important policy areas. I want to point to two important themes. Firstly, I would like to mention the programme categories National Minorities and Sami purposes. The Christian People's Party builds its policy on the Christian view of human beings. We're all made in God's image, and everyone has equal value. The individual is unique. If we're going to treat everyone equally, that means we have to treat individuals and groups differently. This is reflected in Norwegian legislation and in Norway’s international commitments. I am pleased that an overall committee, all without the Advancement Party, believes that the policy towards our national minorities should precisely aim to follow up these commitments. The majority reiterate the need for compensation schemes to remedy injuries caused to persons with a minority background who have been subjected to abuse. In Sweden, the Riksdag introduced a system to remedy the injustice caused by an infringement in the form of sterilisation interventions. I am pleased that an entire committee indicates that the government is investigating a possible introduction of the Swedish model and asking the government to submit the investigation to the Stortinget as soon as possible. In the case of the Sameting, the grant for Sami purposes and the Competence Centre for the Rights of Native People, there is also a broad majority in the Committee. Everyone, once again outside the Progress Party, supports the Government's policies and budget proposals. I would particularly like to refer to the Stortings decision of 16 June 2000, to grant 75 million. SEK to the Same People's Fund. The establishment of the Fund referred to the Stortinget as a collective compensation for the damage and the wrongful search policy has inflicted on the Sami people. The return to next year is calculated for approx. 4.6 million. kr. Secondly, I would like to mention labour market policy. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that unemployment is a great burden to those affected, especially to those who go for a long time without work. In addition, there is a social cost of not using valuable labour and costs related to unemployment benefits and non-tax revenue. More and more people are going on a disadvantage. We must increase efforts to combat disability. Disadvantages shall not be a solution for people who are still able to do a job, even if it is a different job than they had before. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has then also programmed to increase efforts in the field of vocational recruitment and qualification so that workers and other vulnerable groups can be more able to participate in the labour market. We are therefore pleased that the Government has put forward proposals to target the day-to-day arrangements in order to get unemployed back to work as quickly as possible. At the same time, we agree with the Government that the daily allowance must be maintained, and this indicates that others have not got it into the debate today. We are pleased that Aetat is strengthened by 220 annual works, precisely in order to combat increased unemployment, to discourage labour force withdrawals, to integrate groups with special problems in the labour market – the disabled, the long-term unemployed and immigrants. For several years, the Committee has been occupied by the number of seats for those who receive an offer from what is now called the VTA. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee asks the Government to follow up a escalation plan for such sites. Finally, we are also pleased that, on behalf of the Committee, the Government is asked to provide a new model for the reduction of regional subsidies for municipalities exceeding 3000 inhabitants in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6894	The community sector has a very special role in society. It's simply the one that accounts for most of our welfare supply, whether we're talking about education or about health and social care. This is also the reason why the economy of municipalities and municipalities becomes such a central political issue. The Labour Party will provide the local government with DKK 3 billion more next year than the Government will. Of this, the free income is NOK 1.9 billion. The increase in ear-marked additions to the government proposal totals SEK 1.1 billion. We will bet far more strongly than the Government on the school leisure arrangements, kindergartens, construction and upgrading of school buildings, clay balls and industrial development in the districts. The Labour Party has a completely different profile in its policy towards municipalities than the Government. We will particularly strengthen efforts in the field of education and care for the elderly. These are the fundamental welfare tasks. If local authorities are to be able to provide proper services, they must also have more resources than the government will provide them. I illustrate this in the following way: the municipality of Bergen, as the local and regional minister knows well, would receive 75.2 million. kr more in free income next year if the Workers' Party's arrangement had been agreed, compared with the Government's arrangement. In addition, Bergen will have its part of the ear-marked assets and our plan to cover increased pension costs. I'm overestimated in the funds that Bergen needs to provide better education for children and young people and to provide a valuable supply to the elderly. I note that the spokesperson in Bergen has made a clear positive statement about our proposal. State Council Solberg has just shot at the Workers' Party and claimed that the difference between the Government and our efforts in the municipalities is small. That exercise, the Council of State would like to continue whether it has enjoyed it. But it doesn't have anchoring in the actual conditions. We are committed to strengthening schools and care for the elderly in the municipalities. That's one of the pillars of our alternate budget. Our second pillar is to secure existing jobs and create new ones. At the same time, we are proposing a tighter budget than the Government Party and the Progress Party. We are thus the guarantor of a healthy and viable economy also in the rest of society. Very many municipalities get it difficult next year. Major cuts must occur as revenue from the government fails. The Government Party and the Advance Party are investing in competition and a new course. These are not just the words of the opposition. Spokesman Roy Waage in Skjervøy says this: «The budget agreement is with all possible clarity proof that the centre of gravity of the government is far too far to the right.» The local authorities are getting too little money next year. The private spheres, on the other hand, get much more. The government is dedicated to poorer well-being and more privatization. It's not the Labour Party's policy. Our country is facing major challenges. Unemployment rate grew. In the last six months, 2000 industrial jobs have been lost each month. However, the government is too passive in district and regional policy. What is the Government's answer? Major cuts in funding for regional and regional measures were proposed for 2002. This line will be largely passed on for 2003. The budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Advance Party will be reduced by an additional 100 million. kr for these purposes. This policy has major negative consequences for the districts. The economy and the labour market need an offensive initiative. The Labour Party will contribute to this. That is why we are proposing to increase the promise to SND and regional development by 400 million. kr. Of these, it's going to be $180 million. kr is used to promote regional development. So we're proposing 280 million. D more for the strengthening of business and employment in the districts than the Government Party and the Progress Party. Our policies will strengthen the districts and businesses that are successful there. It increases competitiveness and sticks to the main features of the construction pattern. This political course was formerly a plurality in the Stortinget. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]] It's no longer like that. [[President clubs again]] The party of progress and the right has brought the other government parties to a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6917	The representative had a good opportunity to finish his post earlier, so it was completely unnecessary to continue after the president had clubed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6921	There has been a long harvest of debate on many of the same issues, both in this room and outside this room. I'm glad we're now realizing and seeing the consequences of the tightness and the line the Government has put up with. This means that there will be a reduction in interest rates, which will make it easier for young people in the start-up phase through lower costs on their mortgages and which will make it easier for the Municipality of Norway – 400 million. kr in increased disposable income is the impact on the sector, which may be used for things other than paying to banks. In particular, an interest rate reduction also has a significant impact on business, especially in the districts. There are significant framework conditions in terms of the willingness to invest and the costs associated with it, both short-term and long-term, directly and indirectly, because we all know that the indirect costs of a high level of interest will arise at the next wage negotiation. I therefore think there should have been some pleasure in this Chamber in saying that some of the things that not only the government parties have stood for, but that also the Workers' Party has stood for, namely that we should have tightness, have actually given results. Sometimes one should take advantage of the opportunity to express this joy even in an otherwise hard and heavy everyday life. I would like to comment on some of the comments that have been made. I think we've all kept our posts before this debate, but I want to comment on some of them. Firstly, I would like to say that I have heard the requests that have concerned payment to the Human Rights Service and employer's fee compensation to the 14 municipalities, and I want to ensure that I follow up both requests from a majority here in the Chamber. I would like to underline one essential thing after hearing Mr. Reidar Sandal's comments. I have never thought that a difference of SEK 1.9 billion in free income in local economy is small. But I think it'll be so small in relation to the rhetoric of Reidar Sandal. I think the rhetoric is getting so big in relation to the fact that there had been no problems with the structure of the Workers' Party, but all kinds of problems with the structure of this government. But the truth is that the Workers' Party still lacks NOK 3 billion on what is required by the Municipal Councils' Central Association, and if there had been no change in the municipal sector with the Municipal Council of the Workers' Party, no less offer for school, no less offer in the care of the elderly, it must mean that the Workers' Party believes that there is an efficiency potential of NOK 3 billion in the Norwegian municipal sector. That's fine, then we've started to get common ground to see that there's the possibility of efficiency and conversion – if that's what the Labour Party's attitude is. I also want to say to Heikki Holmås that there is actually a difference between us. We are committed to maintaining a competitive business in Norway, not least for the districts. The districts are not going to live by the fact that we have more money for incubator operations or that we have more money for stimulation and conversion measures, if it becomes unprofitable to produce in this country. Therefore, we are concerned that we should not increase growth in the public sector in such a way that the effect is that there is no labour supply or that labour costs are so high that there is no possibility of maintaining a competitive business. That's what we say when we say that an important goal of the Government is that the underlying expenditure growth in the public sector should be under the growth of GDP. It is simply an operational expression for keeping a balance between the private and public sectors, which ensures that we have room for welfare development in the years to come. There have been hard attacks from SV related to the homeless. I think it's unfurnished and is based on little experience from the discussion we've had about what the problems of homelessness actually consist of. Most of those who are really homeless, without a dwelling, are not because they have an economic problem, but they are because they have additional problems. That's the whole part of the government's bet area. All we do is link work qualitatively in the municipal sector in the largest cities – which have the biggest problems of homelessness – with a social development offer, and it lies in the Government's poverty message. I am actually proud that we work so qualitatively on something and do not have simple solutions. It's not the access to homes for these 6,200 that's the problem. The problem is to give many of them a living capacity and an additional offer that allows them to benefit from the housing offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6938	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6941	Although the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs calls it rhetoric, I would nevertheless argue that there will be times for the vast majority of municipalities next year. The reports from people elected throughout the country are not to be taken for granted. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is not able to reach his message. Her own props come with criticism and protests. First, the government is strongly against the municipalities. Then, the State Councils are opening up to wide competition. This is not a work accident - this is a deliberate policy. Governments still have a problem. There is no certainty as to what the gain is from the widespread use of competitive exposure. Many municipalities lack the competence to enter into agreements with private operators, and the Council of State has also recognised this in an interview in the Newspaper recently. The consequences of this policy must be increased by red tape, both in the public and private sectors. Despite this, the government party praises both the challenge right and the privatisation. My question to the Solberg State Council is therefore: does not the Council of State realise that this policy is rocking by the fact that the provision of well-being is essentially public? And secondly, how can the Council of State defend a system which involves a state directive to increase the exposure to competition, which must weaken municipal self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6948	The representative, Reidar Sandal, almost took back the lost time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6951	I fully agree with all the rapporteurs who say that there are very few times in the municipal sector. That is what this government has said from the moment we presented the Community economic proposition. We have been quite open to the fact that it is going to be difficult, and that there are going to be some municipalities that also need to reduce their offer. I just think it would be nice if the Workers' Party had shown some of the same honesty. If I had gone through the newspapers, I think I could have had a long list, considerably longer than Reidar Sandal had in his post, over the workers' party rapporteurs who scolded out the municipal structure of the Stoltenberg government – or not least the centre party rapporteurs who scolded out both the municipal structure of Enoxsen and the municipal councils under Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad. The last five-six years have built up a mismatch and an imbalance in the local economy, and we've all been involved in that process, and I think Reidar Sandal would show a little more understanding of that. I also want to remind you that when we look at the results, among other things. Sees that in 1998 and 1999 there was a negative growth in free income in the municipal sector. It's also not exactly related to the central party rhetoric right now when it comes to this. So for the outsourcing of competition. Yes, I recognise that we need to improve the competence of the competitive outsourcing in many municipalities. That's why we also look at learning methods to get the knowledge out. Some municipalities have done a good job, have gone through the work and know what could be the risks of a competitive outsourcing. They have to learn to move on to other municipalities. But I do not agree that it means that the welfare offer is no longer public. It is that public responsibility is to ensure that a welfare offer is provided, but whoever delivers it is quite different from who is funding it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6958	The councils said that, and I guess we all agree on it: it's intrusive economy in the municipalities. But I would like to challenge the Council of State in the general picture. Is it such that there is a strain on the economy of all 434 municipalities, or is there 70-80 municipalities that are becoming blacklisted, that have a bad economy, while in the remaining municipalities there is a balance and perhaps also a positive operating result? I would also like to get it out of the debate, so that there is not a picture where the entire municipality of Norway is darkened and black painted. There has now been a meeting in the EU again, and they have agreed on a common refugee definition. On 18 April this year, the Progress Party was voted down by all parties in this Chamber when we put forward a proposal in which we asked the Government in a way to seek involvement in the action plan that the EU is currently running. Here they have agreed on a definition that is very close to what Denmark has been strongly criticised for, and like the Progress Party and I have addressed in several contexts, including in this Chamber, but then it was met that this was impossible to implement because Norway had acceded to some conventions and international agreements. So now the EU is doing this, and there is no criticism that they are breaking any conventions or international agreements. Is it now that we can also follow up and do the measures and measures that Denmark has taken, without being confronted with the violation of international conventions and agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6965	It is true that there is not a bad economy in the form of large cuts in welfare services in 434 municipalities. In fact, there are a number of municipalities that are going to balance, and a number of municipalities that are going to make changes and conversions that make them work out. There are municipalities that have made conversions in the four-five-year period that we now have behind us, which are actually able, because of their management systems, to handle also the costs they currently have. Nor is it the case that all the municipalities on the so-called blacklist – I don't like that term, because before all the municipalities were for control at the county council, now only those with deficits are there, and that is the only thing that is the consequence of so-called blacklisting – and that is for observation by the county council, initially have poor finances because they have less income than many of the municipalities that actually manage, but that is because they haven't managed to manage their expenses, or that there are special economic conditions that make them particularly hard to balance. There are municipalities on the list of deficit municipalities, which have significantly higher incomes than a number of other non-state municipalities. There is the difference in economic governance in some municipalities. There are examples of municipalities that are doing well. Levanger is one of the municipalities that has completed such a conversion programme. So the mountain municipality, which I mentioned in this room before, clearly has a conversion. There are a number of municipalities that show that economic governance is possible, and perhaps not least important: that governance is more important than just economic knowledge. You have to sit tight on the processes of where the resources are used. The EU's common minimum definition of refugees is probably – we have to go a little closer to what it has become – in line with what we see as Convention refugees. This is not about what has been discussed in relation to the proposals of the Progress Party. The proposal of the Progress Party was about the right to have its case dealt with, and it has nothing to do with what the EU Commission has now decided to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6977	I met Erna Solberg at Tabloid this spring, and she owed it on 11 September to explain the decline in the housing structure. And she said that this was probably going to be short-lived. But now it's been six months. And the housing actually sinks even more than it did that time. In the first three quarters it has dropped by 14-15 pst. compared to the previous year. And then I ask, despite this happening, I haven't seen the Minister of Housing Erna Solberg on the field. Despite the fact that this is a structurally very important sector for Norway, it seems to me that Erna Solberg is not concerned with re-establishing the general housing structure. The framework of the House Bank has not been increased at all to try to speed up the building. So this is the case with the homeless, as Solberg picks up, where she says that we're a little bumpy. I believe that there is not enough money in this budget to invest enough in the homeless and refugees, which the Government believes are the two main groups. At least there is no money to make sure that there are homes for young people. The last numbers we have indicate that at least 6,200 are homeless. And there's no doubt that when a drug addict who comes out of his residence in an institution is placed at the hospital instead of getting a real apartment, this is obviously about having too few homes for people who need it. I want to challenge the Minister: is she willing to have an ambition to find out how many homeless people there are, and to make a plan, so that we can find a time frame to combat homelessness?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6986	I think it's sad that the world economy hasn't improved any more than it has since 11 September. I also think it is sad that we have signs of increasing unemployment in Norway. It automatically turns out relative to the housing market. There are no short-term solutions to this. However, there is one effect, and it is that housing prices are stabilising, that rental prices are stabilising, and that it has not been so easy for many years to get a place to rent in Oslo as it is at the moment. So it has some positive effects on how the market works in relation to vulnerable groups. I fully agree that homelessness is an important area to combat. But I believe that the focus that SV now has in this debate is quite different from what all parties have had in the past, namely that homelessness is being combated in the form of complex offers. It's not just a question of giving rentals to individuals, they also have to have an offer. In this respect, money has been put into the poverty plan in the Ministry of Social Affairs' budget. It is also a fundamental priority that projects for the homeless in municipalities have priority under the housing grant scheme. This means that all other measures come after this. This means that if the municipalities come up with such projects, there should be no lack of funding for them. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Local Affairs also have a project in which they work qualitatively closely with the largest cities just to get a searchlight on this. I can imagine new measures, and I would like to take Heikki Holmås with me to find new measures that can make sure that we have made changes, and make sure that the first priority for the homeless is actually used within these frameworks, but I have not heard about new measures, just more money – and not really for the homeless.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e6995	I found it difficult to accept that the country has a municipal minister who is more busy looking backwards than in the future. It may at least seem like this on her posts today. Well, the central party in the government got criticism for its municipal arrangement from some spokespersons. The same thing happened for the Labour Party when the Labour Party was in government. But I'm going to say that it was too mild a breeze to account for the protests that are now coming in connection with the inter-political commitment that is now out in the country in relation to the hardship that many municipalities experience when it comes to basic welfare tasks. I brought a perm here. It's a perm that's arranged quarterly, which only tells of some of the many newspaper headlines that have been in the fall, and that tells of a weekday that is far from the happy situation that Anita Apelthun's Seal describes. It's a perm that tells of a great distance to both the government quarter and the government party here in the Stortinget. It's a perm that doesn't contain any calls for tax relief to those of us who charge more than $30,000 a year, but it's a perm that tells of calls from local populace with commitment and enthusiasm for their most difficult-minded and for the basic tasks in the school and health sectors. The Council of State must be commended for saying that there will be crunchy frames. I thought she should go one step further and ask: where should the municipalities cut if it is such that there will also be crunchy frames in the future? Will the postponing of competition solve the situation for all municipalities in this country? If she doesn't mean it, she should say it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7004	I understand that it is difficult for the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa that we remember the story, that it is a bit painful, because it says something about the credibility you have in your criticism and the mobilization you have. In fact, I am very busy looking forward to looking at Norwegian municipalities. I think the most important thing we can do in the situation we're in right now is to be a little honest and honest about how the prospects for Municipality-Norway are going to be, and not say that everything would solve itself by just healing more money on right now. There could be a deterioration in the situation over time in the municipal sector if too much money was spent, because then the cost growth would have increased again in Norway. We had increased inflation, we had increased interest rates, and the rate of interest had still been high. Then we also had a huge disparity in the economic challenges in this country. I have to admit that I think it is a little strange that the Central Party does not see the challenges for District Norway by having a national economy that is totally indifferent to competitive business, precisely because competitive business is the root of District Norway. In fact, if expenditure growth is not kept under control in the public sector, so that competitive business is not pushed out of this country, it is responsible for a much stronger removal process, much greater problems for the fishing industry and most of the district-based industries. I would think it was strange if we didn't say that it would also mean a serious prospectus for parts of the local government sector, because then we would have gotten even more imbalance in relocation and growth. We had thus also had even greater challenges for municipalities in solving welfare problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7014	The right went to tax and school elections. Now the demand from the municipalities is across the country: let's keep our school offer. The school must suffer because the Right and Government force the municipalities to tighten up. The examples are quite many. In fact, in skis 1000 people went on demonstration trains against cuts in school. In Kragerø, two schools are laid down, and the number of support hours is greatly reduced. At the Tuddal School, it has to be cut down on split hours, and teacher positions disappear. In Rogaland County the savings knives are swinging over the secondary schools. In Rauma, three schools are laid down. Does not the Council of State see the Right link between local economy and school, and what answer does the Right Council of State have to those who voted on the Right to get a better school? So to something completely different. This concerns the new start-up loan in Husbanken. The Workers' Party proposes in the suspension a new loan scheme in the House Bank which will be easier for borrowers and easier for municipalities. The municipal minister has sewn together a loan scheme that means more bureaucracy for the borrower and more work for the municipalities. In addition, municipalities are exposed to a significantly higher risk. The result is, of course, that fewer young and disadvantaged people are given the opportunity to borrow, including homeless people. Of course, the municipal minister can blame the municipalities, which has become a habit for this municipal minister. My question to the municipality minister is: does the municipality minister agree that if there is something the municipalities don't need now, is it necessary to take increased risks?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7021	To those who have voted on the Right, I'm going to say what I say every time I'm asked about this: during this ageing period we're going to take all the steps that we're going to and can to follow up the promises we've given about getting a better school, and we're actually doing a lot. Not least when you go by and ask the question, what did the Right say about the Norwegian school? We'll take, for example, a powerful force in relation to better teacher training, focusing on the problem that is most important in our opinion, namely that almost one in five leave Norwegian school as a functional illiteracy. This means that those people will suffer in the future, because they will have a much less stable relationship with the labour market and much bigger problems in getting to work. We know that, because many of us have met those who live in exactly the situation, who have major read and write problems; they have not learned to read and write properly. We're working on improving quality and making better use of resources. In fact, there are some areas, such as the school sector in Norway, where it is possible to make better use of resources. My invitation to all other parties is to participate in giving greater freedom in school everyday life, so that resources can be used better. Kristin Clemet has made suggestions that go that way, that give greater freedom – municipal autonomy and freedom is actually not something she's just talking about, like the opposition parties on the Stortinget, but she's actually doing something. In all the areas that the Government has now proposed, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are less willing to relax and give greater degrees of freedom to the municipalities than the Government is. So for the start-up loan. I disagree that this is a more complicated arrangement than the Workers' Party provided. In fact, I believe that we also give a better kind of relief to the municipalities. We have e.g. added up to 0.25 pst. the margin of interest, within which municipalities may cover their administrative expenses. It was not included in the original proposal. We've made a number of other changes that make this a better system. The municipality has 25 pst. the share of the risk and 75 pst. is in the state, which is better than the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7030	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7033	We're lucky in Norway. Every year we get more money to distribute. We produce more every year and can carry out new reforms, increase the total consumption of goods and services and build the country further. One of the most important questions that politicians have to ask us every year when designing the state budget is the following: what do we need more for next year? How are we going to use our wealth for the benefit of most people in Norway? The government has its flags and boasts of how much they increase for aid, anti-drugs, psychiatry and cancer plan, cash support and kindergartens. Some areas get several hundred million more dollars, and it is presented as the Government's main bet. But that's not what the Government's main effort is. What is the main investment of the Government is the greatest increase in private consumption in history. Next year, our private consumption will increase by NOK 23 billion. We're going to eat, drink, shop, travel, drive and buy for 23 billion dollars more than we did in 2002. Most of us think it is positive to get more money for private consumption. However, the question remains: Is this really the most important need we have? Could it be that there was something even more important, which provides even more necessary health care, which gives more older caregivers a hand to hold in, which will give our kids an even better school? Could it be that these were needs that were so important that we might have managed with just 20 billion dollars more in private consumption for next year? It would still have given us the biggest growth in history, but it could have given us $3 billion more to bet on welfare services. The working party believes it is more important. The Labour Party believes that there is enough NOK 7 billion in tax bills, so that municipalities, which are responsible for schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly and health care, can get NOK 3 billion more. That's our choice. It is said that the economic structure is tight from the government parties, but it cannot possibly be the greatest increase in the private consumption given the name ‘tight’. What is tight is the public budgets, the welfare budgets. That's the government's choice. There's no more money that makes the school better, says State Councillor Solberg. This is not the case in the private schools of the Government, because they will receive NOK 20 000 more per year. students per year; years. If we were to give the equivalent to public school, we would have increased the municipal budgets by NOK 30 billion. What, then, is the choice of the Progress Party when negotiating with the Government on the State budget? Well, demand to weaken public revenue even more in order to provide even more in tax terms, an even stronger redistribution from welfare services to private consumption. The representative Per Sandberg calls our criticism of the budget for black paint. But it was not we who were deeply disappointed on behalf of the Norwegian people when the budget was presented. It was Carl I. Hagen. It was not we who called the removal of the tomb stand petty, immoral and makabert. It was John I. Alvheim. It was not we who were the hardest in condemning pensioners to pay their medicines on blue prescription. It was the Progress Party. But now it is the Progress Party that makes sure that the gravitational aid disappears, that pensioners have to pay for medicines again, that unemployed people can lose up to NOK 200,000 in social security, and – not least – it is the Progress Party that, together with the government parties, provides for a community economy that leads to cuts in the welfare offer of many children, young people, sick and elderly throughout the country. Then Sandberg says that the municipalities are cutting extra for tactical reasons. They punish their own people for protesting against the Government. Well, that's why the Progress Party in my home municipality, Trondheim, is cutting 5 million. In the school budget? Is it, therefore, that the Progress Party in Trondheim makes the school leisure system 200-300 kroner more expensive per year? month? Is it, therefore, that the Progress Party in Trondheim cuts the housing support to the poorest, for example. the minimum pensioners? Because in my home municipality, Trondheim, it's the Progress Party as cutters. Of course, they don't cut to punish the government. They cut because they are forced to do so by a progress party that in Stortinget believes it is more important to tax relief than more money for welfare services. However, tax relief is not important in Trondheim, for where the Progress Party votes for increased taxes on water, for increased taxes on sewerage, for increased parking prices and for a sharp increase in property tax. One should have quite a lot of caravans or drink quite a lot of liters of alcohol before the reliefs in the state budget make the accounts go in plus for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7061	As the Committee notes, labour is our main resource, and work is the main safeguard against poverty. This is why the Government continues to work to enable all persons with a working capacity to participate in the labour market. The most important contribution we can make to this is a general economic approach that prevents unemployment and creates new jobs. The government’s budget contributes to this. It contributes to this through general rigour, by a profile that means that you do not contribute as much to the pressure in the Norwegian economy as the Labour Party's profile in the budget would do, and by a scheme that we already see has positive effects through interest rate reduction. But it is not enough for the Government and the Stortinget to adopt a budget that helps create jobs and prevent unemployment. The social partners also have a responsibility to facilitate this by adding to a pay moderation that means that we do not price labour so high that there are no jobs out of it. The Government has initiated income policy cooperation with the social partners ahead of the wage settlement in 2003. I would just like to stress here in the Chamber how important it is for all the social partners to take responsibility in relation to income policy cooperation. If we are serious about creating opportunities for work for all, all parties must show responsibility. Of course, in addition to a general economic structure and a responsibility on the part of the parties, we need to pursue an active policy to help those who are so unfortunate not to have a job, out in the labour market. We have increasing unemployment in Norway. We got new forecasts today that underlined it even more strongly, and we are following developments closely. However, we must not lose sight of the fact that the fundamental problem facing Norwegian society is that we have a shortage of labour. It's not like we in the Norwegian community have a lack of jobs and too many hands and heads. We have too many unfinished jobs and too few hands and heads. This means that the challenge we face in labour market policy is not to park people somewhere. The challenge we're facing is to get people who don't have work into the jobs that have to be done. The main measure in this respect is that Aetat assists each jobseeker in finding out the job vacancies, in finding out what qualifications are needed, to advise them and to make demands on jobseekers. At the same time, it is an aeta that administers a day-to-day money code that provides individual income protection in the job-seeker phase, while encouraging individuals to qualify and seek work. And it's an aeta that cooperates well with business and with the private actors that exist both in the qualifying part of the market and in the intermediary part. During 2002, the government facilitated the substantial conversion of Aetat. And it's nice to note that a post that was in crisis a year ago, now begins to show clear signs of much better functioning. As it was extended, the Government has also followed up in the draft budget, which is fortunately adopted, with 220 annual works in 2003. These 220 annual works are in addition to the annual works released in the department as a result of the implementation of the new computer system. And overall, we can assume that Aetat net will have around 400 additional annual works available to help the individual jobseeker for next year. The government also follows developments in the labour market closely with regard to the level of action. But let me make it clear that although action is important, placing highly qualified people on qualification measures does not help job seekers. Qualification measures are necessary for those who do not have the necessary qualifications to function in the labour market, and we need to target measures against those groups. We do not need labour market measures to qualify well-qualified IT professionals back and forth in the workplace. They shall be communicated and shall be assisted. They shall not be parked on measures. This is why the Government's intention to target the measures is very clear and, at the same time, to dimension the measures in such a way that we reconsider the scope of the day we see that the measures represent a bottleneck in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7080	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7083	The Council of State and I are a few on one thing, that the most important thing now is the fight against unemployment. Now since Norman took over as State Council, there have been 47 new unemployed people every day. Today, as the Council of State was also involved, we have received new forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau, which shows that the unemployment rate in 2003 can rise to 4.4 p.m. and 5 p.m. in 2004. That is to say that approx. 130,000 people can be walking without work. This is dramatic. Then the Labour Party also agrees that it is important that the country has a tight budget, yes, in fact the Labour Party wants to have it even tighter than what is now agreed. In spite of high unemployment and dramatic forecasts, the government is cutting the social security costs of the unemployed. So you take from those who have a hard time, and then you give to those who have the most of them. And I won't even mention the government's original proposals for changes to the permit laws. Active and good labour market policies are important. The Council of State said that there is ‘lack of labour’. Yeah, that's right. However, the level of intervention is of such a size that today there is a space for action per year. ten available. In 1997, there was a place for action per year. the third available. The Council of State boasts that Aetat will be added 220 new annual works next year. Yes, that's right, but it's after Aetat's first slimmed down pretty hard in 2002. Aetat is still in crisis. My question is, how will the Council of State address this challenge in the next few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7092	In the case of Aetat, I just want to remind you that Aetat's resource frameworks have been systematically cut for very many years. The first year in which a government of very long has proposed a strengthening of Aetat, is this year. And we're strengthening Aetat quite strongly. In addition to adding 220 new annual works, we allow the department to use the approximately 200 annual works that are released as a result of investments of 700 million. kr in a new computer system, to strengthen the establishment's work. So in reality, it's a strengthening of Aetat with well over 400 annual works. It is true that the Workers' Party has proposed a little more – about 100 more annual works. And you can always discuss: is it right now to increase by 440 annual works, or 500 annual works? But in any case, it is quite clear that the representative Upbeøen Hansen and the Workers' Party, and the Government and I, in principle, propose a strengthening of Aetat of the same magnitude. Just so it's said. As regards the level of action, it is true that there are fewer areas of action per year. available now than it has been in the past. But it is also true that we have a composition of the unemployed who are different than it was before, and we have a labour market that is different than it was five to six years ago. We have a huge shortage of labour, we have a lot of vacancies, and we have a lot of terribly well-qualified jobseekers. It is pointless to place highly skilled jobseekers, in a country with a shortage of labour, on measures. The goal is, as I said in my post, not to park people. The goal is not just to place people on a football field and let them carry rocks back and forth. The goal is to get people into meaningful work. In this case, action places are not the solution, unless they are in fact unqualified. We will continuously assess the level of action. We're going to propose increased action sites on the day this is really the bottleneck, but we're not going to propose action sites just to keep people active.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7101	Government council Victor Norman had a lot of sense to say in his post, as I think it -- creating new jobs, working for everyone, wage moderation, this with a shortage of labour, that there is a huge shortage of labour. That's how – I'm not going to repeat it with labour immigration, we've been talking about earlier this evening – that we have a significant increase in unemployment, almost 80,000 unemployed at the moment. And there's one thing I especially want to get into. We have about 73 000 people with disabilities, and we know that the state is actually a disaster in recruiting people with disabilities. So I want and hope that the Council of State will work with the goal in mind that more people who are occupationally disabled, but as we know can do an excellent job, can get the opportunity to work in a state-owned business. I also want to use the minute I have left to ask the Council a little bit more generally. We know that the Council of State is a modernisation and renewal council – he has got it stamped. And just to raise a question: is the Council of State so pleased with the pace and progress of the renewal and modernisation which he has gone very high on the track and proclaimed? Or does he think it has been difficult to get any particular momentum in the modernisation process in Norwegian administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7108	To the end, if I may be allowed to be a little personal: I am so lucky that the tribute of Andersen's representative has built an all-important three-way check for me, which has the excellent feature that it doesn't go fast, but it comes out. The important thing in modernising is that we come forward. To do that, we need to take time. We need to take time to modernise the public sector and not fall for the temptation to carry out short-term symbolism. I am very pleased with the tempo we have in the modernization work, just as I am extremely pleased with the three-sheikt that the treme of the representative Andersen has built for me. As far as the disabled are concerned, it is quite clear, and I fully agree with Andersen, the representative, that they represent a resource that we have not been good enough to use. Very often we have actually experienced just what I had in my main post, that the disabled have been parked in artificial activity, instead of being exploited as a really good resource. The state has not been good at creating jobs for people with disabilities. We are engaged in an action programme for the provision of more jobs in the state of the disabled, which is one aspect of this. We also consider measures to ensure that more disabled people are actually given a chance to get to work interview in the country. We'll carry that work on. At the same time, it is primarily for those with disabilities that we use qualification measures. Society cannot afford to use the resource that these 73 000 people with disabilities actually represent. It is gratifying to note that there has been a sharp increase in the number of intervention sites targeted at people with disabilities in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7118	It is not correct for the Government to combat unemployment as its primary objective. Had they had, they would have made sure that the Central Bank had interpreted their mandate differently, they had focused on what is important for industry, namely the krone price, and they could focus on unemployment and get interest rates down faster. The main objective of the Government is not this. The main objective is that there will be more private wealth and that there will be great tax relief. It's the brothing thing. Then I need to ask the Council of State: when the Government starts to work on some of the benefits of the unemployed, they argue that this should be encouraged and stimulated by. I don't know if it's the way for the Council of State that he gets encouraged and stimulated by getting less pay? It's possible he'll be. I don't know anyone else. This is the old-fashioned right-wing ideology that assumes that if you have a lot of money, you're stimulated by getting more, then you're working more. But if you have little, you get stimulated by getting even less. I wonder if the Council of State is not aware that many of those affected are those who have the least connection to the labour market. Many of them are women who work in the health sector, who have taken on the burden of poor health from falling into job breaks, often quite far down, who have not cost us another penny, and now they are going to be grateful that they will not even get their daily allowance if they become unemployed. Another challenge: I know that this government wants strong competition, especially in the care and care sectors. When we know how it works there, it goes on pay and employment for those who work there, does the Council of State think it reasonable that there are low-wage women who have to bear the burden of getting high-wage and rich taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7127	No, I don't think so. But that's not what's going on. Let me make it clear: what happens to the day-to-day pay system – and there are many misunderstandings here – are several things. One thing that happens is you can't have a day's money for more than two years, compared to three years earlier. It increases the pressure on the individual and increases the pressure on Aetat to get into work. And when we suggest it, it's simply because all the experience shows that you haven't got a job in two years, you don't get a job. So this is to help the jobseekers. Then we suggest that the prowess period before you get the daily allowance is slightly increased. And you can always discuss whether that's reasonable. But it doesn't have any particular social profile. Then we suggest that the minimum income requirement for a daily allowance be raised a little bit, but at the same time with a screening system that makes the groups that Karin Andersen is concerned about, not affected by it. This means, in fact, that we are removing the daily allowance for newly educated students and students, for whom it has never been intended that we should have a daily allowance. Then we remove the holiday supplement, which most of the unemployed get paid only after they return to work, and which is therefore no help in the period when you are looking for a job. And then we make an adjustment as to how much the decline in the employment share actually has to be. And that particular reduction seems like a lot of people have misunderstood. It's not like you don't get a daily allowance if you have had less than 40 pst. position. But what's true is that you've had a 20 pst. The position must be reduced by 50 pst. to qualify for a daily allowance. Then you go down from 20 pst. to 10 pst. position, you get a daily allowance. Those are the groups that Karin Andersen seems to be worried about, and I'm afraid that concern is related to a misunderstanding of what the proposal really is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7132	Norman is to be commended for having warned the launch of good central party policy, the emancipation of state supervision from Oslo. He will also be commended for participating in the Government's poverty package. But then I have to come back to some other sides that are not really praiseworthy. We've already been into the community economy – he shouldn't be responsible for it. But I feel the need to say that I can't stand here, as the Christian People's Party and many others do, and smile and say that the municipalities have funds for the most important tasks. In fact, I found it absurd that with a Christian People's Party-led government we should experience that every fourth municipality now announces closed churches winter time, and that the Christian People's Party has its own trust elected locally in order that the relatives should dig their own graves. Nor can we accept that the Government will demand fivefold more for the poverty package, and there is a particular co-responsibility by the Council of State when it comes to the restrictions proposed in the day-to-day arrangements. If it is true that there are students who are now going to tighten up in relation to it, I have to ask how there can be several hundred million dollars. I also want to say that there's a strangely bad explanation in the proposition. Is it so that he who operates with his own rules on his own, except for the documents, in the same way that he does with reintroduction? He's notifying me of reintroduction. And when there are protests from the disabled's organizations, he goes out and says no, this does not apply to the disabled. I think he's going to be able to explain both of these constraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7139	With regard to the minimum day-to-day income requirement, it has always been – and should be known by the Storting – a rule that says that you have a minimum income requirement for the last year, and in addition you have a requirement that relates to average income in the last three years. What we're suggesting is raising the minimum income requirement for the last year, but we're not changing the income requirement in the last three years. The minimum income requirement for the last three years is to have averaged at least 1G. If you do, you qualify for a daily allowance even if you do not meet the minimum income requirement in the last year. That means that those who are affected by our raising the minimum income requirement last year are those who have not been in work for a long time. It's essentially students and students who have had part-time jobs while going to school, who are looking for their first real job. And as I have said before, it has never been the opinion of the day-to-day money code that you should have a day-to-day allowance for that group. On the other hand, those groups that have had low income for several years are protected. With regard to the ceiling on costs associated with re-routing programmes, the main emphasis of those affected by this ceiling is those who are in regular educational programmes in private institutions, which without the roof have actually had a suction tube to the state fund. That's what we want to remove. But of course, we have always thought that disabled people with high standards of care should be protected. It's not something we've kept secret. We have sent proposals to Stortinget about this. We've briefed the Storting about it. The fact that we are trying to make arrangements for – I would almost say – general repatriation clients cheaper for the state cannot be an argument for saying that therefore we do not want to pursue a policy towards people with disabilities. I think it's just those who have an interest in good general programmes for private producers, who can believe something like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7148	Governments have a strange relationship with millions. When he talks about the 50 million. kr that the Workers' Party has granted more to Aetat, there is suddenly no money. When the settlement lots were to try to find 500000 kroner to stay within the frame, they could not find it. So it's going to take 50 million. kr be quite a lot of money. It is also the case that the Council of State calls it to park people on measures. Who's saying that? No one's talking about it. It is the responsibility of the Council of State to qualify the unemployed for the vacancies. The method must also be the responsibility of the Council of State. During the corresponding debate last year, the Council of State was asked whether he was concerned about the many signals that unemployment would increase. The answer was that he was not. Today we know that the Council of State was wrong. 17 000 more have become available. That's an increase of 28 pst. And it has now been a whole year of passiveness and watching and letting happen. With the government's own proposals, unemployment will increase further next year, and after the Statistical Central Bureau track, in 2004 we will have a unemployment rate of 5 pst. Then I will ask the same question again: Is the Council still not concerned? In such a situation, the response of the Council of State to the unemployed is even more alarming. Obviously, the government will make life even more difficult for those who lose their jobs, and not least for those who lose their jobs, from three to two years. State Secretary Ryssdal of the Ministry of Labour and Administration calls this tough carrot or whip to give people a stronger incentive to get a job. But you can't live off these carrots – you have to have food every day. And then I'm going to ask the Council of State, what are those who go free beyond the two-year period going to live off when the daily allowance is taken from them?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7159	Just a short line to this with that food you have to have every day. Yes, you have to, and then it helps very little that what you get is holiday money after you are no longer unemployed – just to have said it. I didn't say 50 million. NOK is not much, but I have said that there are 100 additional jobs in Aetat. We're actually proposing over 400 extras, and I'm saying that the difference between 400 and 500 is at least not so great that it provides the basis for the violent rhetoric that the Workers' Party is conducting in this area. I would also like to remind you that this year we are proposing an increase in the budget of 110 million Aetas. kr, plus an equivalent amount related to the release of resources resulting from the introduction of a new computer system. The Workers' Party's proposal last year, when you got up so violently, was 30 million. kr. So we're now proposing about the sevenfold of what the working party last year thought was enough. I do not fully understand the seriousness of the Workers' Party in relation to this. If it was so clear last year that you needed a marked reinforcement of Aetat, it was marked that this year you believe that in addition to the 200 million. We're actually betting on Aetat, we need 50 million. That's why last year, 30 million was proposed. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7168	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7173	After listening to the debate, I'm really worried about Kommune-Norway. It's in the municipalities people live, and that's where you'll notice the cuts in the welfare goods, especially in school and care. The Nordic newspapers have daily headlines, such as:Four out of five municipalities in the Nordic countries are now preparing to cut their welfare. Today, the county councillor in Nordland, Åshild Hauan, says to the NRK: «Thunderly loses the job». She goes on to say that the municipalities "must cancel people, and it's the weakest... who get hurt". These are the realities of the municipalities in the Nordic countries, as in many other municipalities in the country. A small municipality in Nordland is called Rødøy. When the further expansion of power in the Svartisen/Saltberg was stopped, the municipality of Rødøy came in a special situation. The expansion in Melfjord in Rødøy was almost begun when a valid concession was withdrawn. It's never happened before and probably will never happen in the future. This case is unique. State power has received full expenditure compensation in connection with the stop, as has the municipality of Nordland and all the landowners. In that case, this case cannot be equated with other power development projects which have been refused an application for extension, as the Government Parties and the Advance Party claim. Redøy never had the opportunity to seek compensation within the deadline, as everyone was in good faith that the expansion would take place. The municipality has used up to 2 million. kr to prepare for the development of power, and the agreement with Statkraft was signed and had a size of approx. Ten million. kr. All of this suggests that the municipality of Rødøy is in a special position to receive compensation. This was also meant by Brother Yngve Rahm from the Christian People's Party on 17 December last year, when he made a proposal asking the Government to reconsider the matter, as a special case in the compensation scheme for municipalities for non-development. He also said in his post: «The situation of the Community is therefore, in the opinion of the Committee, special.» Some in the same direction also expressed the representative of the Party of Progress. In addition, the Progress Party has had some strange games in the media about Document No. Eight proposals, etc. in the last days. I would like to challenge the government parties and the Progress Party to stand by what they have said in the past, and vote in favour of the Workers' Party's, SV and the Senter Party's proposal that Redøy should have its fair compensation in accordance with the financial framework that has been in force in such cases. Let this little municipality not be a throwball in the system!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7195	First, the centre party has been accused by several representatives in the debate of opposing change. I would like to say that we have about 100 enthusiastic rapporteurs who have reorganized, who have been promoting inter-municipal cooperation for years, and who are far from being caught by old structures and ways of thinking. So to the matter, yesterday we had a church debate here in Stortinget. The Minister of the Church expresses concern over closed churches. She says today to our country newspaper, "It's very serious, and not a nice message," but adds that her comfort is that many of the messages are crisis maximisation, and that there won't be so many closed churches in practice. I think the government has difficulty taking in the situation for the Church in large parts of the country. The church locally is a small organization with few members added. Therefore, savings measures are severely affected. I know that vacant church posts where municipal sub-funding is a prerequisite are not getting bright. Closed churches are the expression of municipal poverty I didn't think would come true in 2003. In fact, the Church Council fears that 100 churches may be closed. The Church Army in Vindfjord estimates to charge 1000 kroner for each wedding and every funeral to get the church budget to go up. Or should the church victim be used to pay the electricity bill instead of going to the mission? This is an unworthy situation for the Church's employees and for all those who can be served by the Church. Bishop Øystein Larsen of South Holland says this: Now we see that poor municipal economy is about to take the church from most people. It's hard to understand in one of the richest countries in the world. I have followed the debate here today. The representative Apelthun Seal from the Christian People's Party immediately said she was proud of the budget. What is my great concern is that the representative Apelthun Seele and her party traps and contractual partners look at the budget they adopt, and think: look, everything is very good. I had actually not expected the Church to come into such a situation with a Prime Minister and a minister of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7208	On questions relating to the overall budget of the Workers' Party, more stringent than the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, the representative replied yes to Signe Eye. Once again I have to point out that this is wrong. Although the Labour Party has DKK 2.2 billion more on the bottom line than the Government Parties, the sum of the Party's increased taxes, taxes and public expenditure does not contribute to lower wage and price growth – according to the Ministry of Finance estimates. This debate has been marked by two things: repetitions and the blackness of the opposition. I could imagine becoming the light fountains of the debate, by taking up something positive. The housing aid has hardly been mentioned. Nevertheless, housing support has received one of the greatest increases in human memory. Never before has the housing support embraced more people than today; never before have those who have received housing support been paid more than today. This forgets to mention the opposition. It is also in stark contrast to the Workers' Party's action and rhetoric. But as we know, you sell far better as black paint than as the light fountains, so it gets along with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7217	Many of us still remember that there was a touching consensus across party boundaries at the previous decision to combat poverty. The batches, left to right, would eliminate the unworthy conditions that many lived under. We remember well that we were occupied with 70,000 children living in poverty. My claim today is that the budget that the majority of the population is about to adopt is breaking with the intentions and promises that the politicians made to the people. I want to invite the Stortinget to a town hall just a few hundred meters from this hall. This town hall has today adopted a budget that can be called a miserable budget. The Municipality of Oslo today adopted a budget that reduced social assistance instead of price-setting it. It's assumed that if someone loses the job, breaks out of the family, is thrown out of a violent spouse and has to get help from the community, then gets a 66 pst. of ordinary social assistance in the first two months. Furthermore, the municipality of Oslo has decided that if a person chooses to live with the family but needs social assistance and is between 18 and 24 years old, a few will. 900 kroner to go with the month, instead of 2,500 kroner, as it is now. The amount may vary from municipality to municipality, but the trend is clear: the municipalities get poor advice, and it goes beyond the poor. It is regrettable that the majority will adopt a budget which will significantly increase SFO rates. The more expensive SFO schemes create a distinction between those who have and those who do not. This will separate the children – children who come from the same neighborhood, and children who will attend the same school and in the same class. The distinction will go between those who have, and those who don't. If you have enough money, you're in. If you don't, you must be outside the good company. This is what we call SV class distinctions. We know definitely that the exposure to the control of the classroom varies from batch to batch. But do we want a society where children are separated from parents' wallet? Today's class barriers go along different axes than what they did for some decades ago, but they're equally full of divisions. And the government parties, together with the Progress Party, are involved in sedentating these. Someone will notice this more than others – Christian People's Party voters, wouldn't they believe?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7233	For me, who originally intended to lead the budget meeting of the local government right now, it is with a little mixed emotions that I am instead following this debate here in the main hall. I feel, unfortunately, that the message from local politicians from all the party, around the country, has by no means reached the bulk of the population. Then we'll have to wait and see if the people's response when they discover that service offers are deteriorating and disappear, reaches the same majority. [[The fire alarm goes off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7240	The size must now take a break to check what happens. The storing continued its negotiations after a short break of approx. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7245	It might as well have been that this wasn't the virgin speech itself, and maybe just as well that one got put in place where the limit goes. President, I'm resuming. For me, who originally intended to conduct the budget meeting of the local government right now, it is with a little mixed emotions that I am instead following the debate here in the main hall. Unfortunately, I feel that the message from local politicians from all parties in the country has in no way been reached until the great majority. We're waiting for the responses of our citizens when they discover that services are deteriorating and disappearing, and see if they reach the same majority. As early as the summer, when local politicians saw how this would end, it was perceived as the annual complaint song. Yes, some of us were accused by the Prime Minister himself of running around the streets and howling. Never before has a description of reality so often got the term black paint. I have a few examples from the media in my own country, More and Romesdal, and then I shall skip the examples of the rapporteur of Ålesund, who has been referred to earlier this evening. Haram Municipality reduces total 15 places at two hospitals and closes a branch at Solbakken Bucollective, six teaching positions disappear and the swimming training is removed, cut to 20 million. kr in the West, rescue operation for Torvik school in Gemnes, and 7 pst. increase in the parental payment in the nursery in Skodje. Everyone in this room knows that I could use all my three minutes on such examples just from the Moor and Romesdal. Yes, the cut list only from my own small municipality had taken a great deal of time. I would also like to inform you that I am aware that when the budgets of these days are adopted around the local government, one through local political creativity has clearly managed to save many of the services that were proposed in the interpretative decision. But I am absolutely sure that most people in the new year will notice that municipal services are weakened or removed, and that user payments, fees and rents have increased. I also record that the Right's message in the election campaign was not to be interpreted as greater resources for the schools, but I think it's going to be difficult to explain to students, parents and teachers that it actually means a different school with fewer employees per. pupils, lack of resources for textbooks, teaching materials, etc. But that's going to be first and foremost the Right problem. That the Christian People's Party is proud of this budget, yes it's almost like a doubt that they really mean it. Bad municipal economy ‘has built up over several years’, said the Prime Minister from this pulpit in the financial debate. Yeah, that's probably right. But the gap has never, definitely never – at least not in my 15 years as a local politician – been greater between the number of dollars needed to maintain the well-being of the people most around the country, and the crowns that municipalities receive through taxes and frameworks. This fact should concern the Prime Minister. The right-wing councils would probably comment on it in a slightly different way. The message from there is an improvement in efficiency, modernisation, privatisation and structural change. Although there had been a majority of Right Medicine around the municipalities, such conversions would take time. In the meantime, the government wants to reduce the provision of services and relieve people of the most necessary and legally required tasks. This happens when high-profile partiologies are given priority over healthy and well-grained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7266	Before the debate ends, I have to send a big message of concern. My great concern comes when I hear that the Progress Party solves the financial problems of the municipalities with a new financing model. The Progress Party will state municipal tasks. So local offers are to be funded by the government, and then I have to ask: what about local self-government? What about local freedom of action? What will happen in the municipalities when local politicians are set aside for government? For us in the Right, it is important to facilitate the conditions for the municipal level. It is important for us to get good and strong municipalities that are able to solve their own tasks according to their own priorities. In fact, belief in local democracy is strong. The tasks will be handled as closely as possible to the population. But the danger signals are now clear, and local self-government seems to be exposed. The Progress Party wants the state to take over municipal tasks, and SV knows we are too strong a state. This must be taken seriously by the Workers' Party. Here it is the responsibility of a party with considerable government experience. This budget harvest has run a rough race in black paint — even tonight. If the opposition's policy continues to be so unconstructive in relation to the country's major challenge, I'm afraid that most people lose faith in municipal autonomy and that the municipalities can, dare and will. Then the race may have been run for Kommune-Norway. I therefore sincerely hope that the Workers' Party will be able to resume the thread of its previous modernisation programme, become more constructive and more offensive. The Labour Party is for the modernisation of the public sector, said Signe Eye in its first post this evening. But it actually remains to be seen whether it's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7275	The following was read in today’s nations: ‘We must afford to warm churches, bury people...’ It was the representative of the magnificence and the committee leader Rolf Rikvam who expressed this. He also said that the rich would pay more taxes, so that the state could drive more money into the poor municipal economy. There have been many insurrections against poor public finances, but I believe more in a better distribution of funds between municipalities. It'll only reinforce the inequalities if we choose to lubricate a larger frame evenly beyond the described misery. There will be no inflation either by painting the walls of hospitals, by providing warm-up in the churches, or by giving people a decent funeral. When the actor Lars Andreas Larssen is upset about the situation and according to the evening post will gather his colleagues and set the course for the Lofoten in the Rome Christmas or early in the New Year, I see it positively. Larssen promises that all 1200 seats in the mighty Lofot Cathedral will be filled by people who will show what they think about district policy. It will be great that so many people gather in a church and at the same time get God’s Word. I understand that people react when the church, which you take as a matter of course, is threatened or no longer a matter of course. The churches around the whole country have for a long time been balancing posts in municipal budgets. There has been no understanding that church employees have been able to act for their needs. Budgetary meetings in local government have been viewed and often influenced by students and parents, well assisted by meaningful teachers. Over time, this has led to a larger increase in funding for the school sector in relation to church purposes. When the life-belts have recently been tightened extra to around the municipality of Norway, this has been most noticeable and dramatic for the church business. Now the Church must stand up locally and make visible to local politicians and the population the consequences of lack of funding for church purposes. It becomes too easy to blame the minister of the church immediately some notices of shutting down some church in the country. This is primarily a signal to local authorities. There will be no more automatically to the churches by increasing the framework of the municipal sector. It must be a willingness, among the majority of each local government, to give priority to this area. So far, the Christian People's Party has been largely alone in increasing the framework of the church sector in very many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7291	Yes, it must be a willingness to give priority to the unimportant. I understand that it is tough for a Christian People's Party representative to experience that it is almost the cashier that enters the churches again. As far as I remember, Jesus threw this out of the synagogue quite many years ago, but now it's coming back in, and it's unworthy. This is essentially a priority. It's not the municipalities, not the old people, not the schoolchildren and not the people who go on social welfare, who have run away with the great gain that this government and the Christian People's Party have distributed. On the contrary, we who sit here, who are highly paid; we get several thousand dollars in tax dollars! What in the world is the point of that, when the Christian People's Party representative goes up here and says it's so sad that the churches have to shut down? As a non-church member, I also think it is an entirely hair-removing priority. I would give priority to having open churches in front of giving tax havens to those who have a lot of money. Then I want to go back to the integration policy a little bit. Learn Norwegian, has been a unanimous message to our immigrants, to refugees and asylum seekers. That's the key to already. So you do the brilliant thing about removing Norwegian education from those who are sitting waiting for a decision. And we know that many of them get to be. Many of them sit for months, and there they shall sit staring at the wall. I don't know what to do, they're going to get some kind of action to puzzle with. What in the world is the trick of not allowing people to start learning Norwegian as soon as possible, or allowing them to have temporary work permits, which they have had before? Many of them have been working and taking care of their seas. Whether they stay or not, we know that they come out of such a scheme with increased competence and maritime respect. They realize that they have to contribute something, and that here it is based on exploiting their resources seagoing. The only signal we're sending to them is: here it's just sitting down, here it's not going to happen anything, just wait! I find this to be pointless, and SV and I are very hard pressed that we should now have an introduction program that should be good for everyone. We believe that it is totally contrary to what the government is doing now, to postpone Norwegian training and to postpone it into a general employment relationship for many months for many of the people who are going to live here in the country. I have to say, I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7300	Every time I hear Minister of Housing Solberg, I feel that when she says that there are no short-term solutions, she really believes that there are no short-term solutions that the Government will prioritise. They exist, but the government will not give priority to them. I want to say two things: one is about the mortgage lending framework of the House Bank. When the Council of State last autumn in the budget decision tightened the loan framework for the House Bank by NOK 2 billion compared to the workers' party government's proposal for an increase, this led to the House Bank running out of lending before the summer. There is no doubt that this led to a slowdown in the start of the housing construction. If you talk to the trade unions, they say, yes, it's actually like we're having trouble getting funding for housing, when the House Bank no longer has funds that they can put up with. And remember, these are loan frameworks on which the government makes money! We're making money to borrow these funds, and we're getting speed on the housing construction. But why does the Minister not want to give priority to this? Well, there's two reasons for that. One is that she doesn't want housing, she also wants tax relief. And investing money on the bank's loan framework – although it has no expenditure side in the government budget, but actually a revenue page – can help to speed up the economy in relation to housing. And that's stupid, thinks Erna Solberg. But now it's actually the way housing has gone down, and there should definitely be room to spend more money through the mortgage. And the other side of this is the purely political-ideological right-wing idea, which is that the Husbank accounts for too much of the loan business of newly built dwellings. For the House Bank stands for between 45 and 50 pst. We think that's good. It seems that the right is too much, they want it down, and instead they want the private banks to finance the housing. But this leads to lower housing construction. And then I say, "We'd rather have housing construction and loans from the House Bank, and then we notice that the Right-Registration doesn't want that." But there had been a short-term measure that had worked. Then go to the homeless. There is an imbalance in the rental market. And there's no doubt that Erna Solberg is quite right in saying that a good part of the people who are homeless need more things than housing. But the problem today is that many of them don't even have housing, and then we have to start there. And then we think there'll be more homeless when there's an unsocial housing policy on the part of the government. Because that's how when there are higher prices, there will also be more people who can't afford to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7311	Some representatives from the Workers' Party have blown up to the large heights. I heard the representative Giske. But he's absolutely right, it's gravitating that the tombstone is being removed. We stand by that. It is also very regrettable that the Progress Party has not been able to implement major parts of its alternative budget. We did not have significant efforts on infrastructure, as we wanted. We did not get the money for medical treatment that we wanted. We did not get the tax relief we wanted. But at least we were given priority to the weakest. And when it's repeated over and over again, including by the representative Giske, that it's the rich that's been taxed by us, I'll repeat that it's going to be $1 billion in taxes for people who make less than NOK 190 000. It's not tax havens for the rich. And then I would recommend to the representative Holmberg to take a study in the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. The representative may then understand – although she may not want to – if she could at least try to add a little goodwill to it, that it is not the state that is going to run the institutions that I am talking about, but the state is going to finance them. The state has to finance these, and that is what the municipalities are calling for. They call for more funds to be fully funded and run by these institutions in health, care and school. That's what's in our comments. And then the municipalities will also get, as it says in our remarks,'significant autonomy', we will have greater local autonomy and competition between municipalities. So it's about action places. It is necessary for the weakest, those who do not enter the labour market. But I think we're going to put more emphasis on providing jobs. It must be a priority. And then it's so sad that it's not possible, for example, to bring the Workers' Party to a larger stake in that area. The truth is that the Labour Party has for many, many years lost jobs and thus created the situation that exists now. Then I would also say in relation to something we did not get completed, we did not get compensation for Redøy in place. But I will be allowed to say that if there is a proposal for a new extension or compensation in a case outside the budget, of course the Progress Party will support it. Finally – if I have some more time left – it might be interesting to mention that I have been a local government representative myself. It is many, many years ago, and already at that time the Workers' Party let down schools. So that discussion has been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7326	The representative Sandberg invited him to a study in the Progress Party. It is difficult to reach the thread of the Progress Party's policy. Let me take some examples. Per Sandberg today talked about improving the efficiency of the municipal sector, and at the same time he was almost in Harmony that the municipalities engaged in industrial work. Then it is true that the municipal food funds are a shining example of the creation of several thousand new jobs in the districts, with modest resources. In this setting, the Progress Party writes that they are in principle against local and central business funds. In the spring, in the context of the Ownership Notice, the same Progress Party wrote: ‘Safety of a sound economic structure can be strengthened by the establishment of a significant structural fund...’;» So, something they were for in ours, they're against it. Per Sandberg accuses us of taking seriously the situation in the municipalities. He calls it jamming and black paint when we tell about disabled people who are not being followed up, and about other people in the municipalities that the municipalities now have to give priority to. These are the same groups that John Alvheim seems to be standing on the barricades, and it seems to be shaken and shocked as soon as there is someone in some municipality who is not being followed up to the point and the point. So is the Progress Party for the Postponement of Competition. In the spring, they wanted the Government in law to impose competition on the municipalities. Now they have changed policies in that area, and now it is the right to challenge them. At the same time as the Progress Party will now have, and will be implemented, a challenge right that is at stake and an intervention in local self-government, he stood right here and would strengthen local self-government. I would like to repeat my question, both to Per Sandberg and to the Council of State: is there any sector they want to protect when it comes to putting out competition, or is even an elderly-career candidate for a competitive suspension? Who is it that can support both better quality and cheaper services, with foresight? Is there anyone in the municipality that they think this isn't suitable for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7344	I would remind you that in 1997 2 271 asylum seekers came to Norway. This year, around 18 000 asylum seekers are expected to be sent to the country. So the numbers show a startling increase, but a lot of talk is that this can only be a mild taste of what we can expect if we don't tighten up, as the Progress Party has for a long time suggested. It was the Bondevik I Government which itself opened the asylum portal in a wide gap through liberalisation in this area in 1997. And at the same time, we know that Erna Solberg is working tirelessly further, as I understand it, for increased labour migration to Norway from all over the world. This is absurd in my view. We don't need this labour immigration. It will again send out signals that in Norway we will have workers from all over the world, and thus a new wave of asylum is likely to roll into the country again. Thus, little has been learned since 1997, when the Bondevik I government released the red runner for asylum seekers to show the world how kind and generous the North should be. Today we see that this was unfortunate. At a time of perhaps 100,000 unemployed, it is immoral to propose increased labour migration to Norway. At the same time, there are also very many non-Western immigrants who are struggling to get a job here in the country. In addition, the Progress Party believes that there is a great deal of labour that can be freed in public bureaucracy, agriculture, etc. The challenge is to make use of the large labour reserve we have in Norway, rather than to import unskilled labour from outside the EEA. In 1970 there was hardly a non-Western immigrant in Oslo. 30 years later, today, has 32 pst. by the students in Oslo’s schools foreign language background. I say this to illustrate that there has been a tremendously rapid development in this area, despite the fact that we have had a stoppage of immigration from 1975. The high volume and pace have meant that we have not been able to deal with immigration, asylum and refugee policies and to support a good integration policy. There has become a single chaos in this area, and I would say that all the other parties, except the Advance Party, are responsible for this. The scepticism of immigration policy in the Norwegian people seems to be proportional to the number of immigrants in the country. And this debate and immigration and asylum policy have become a topic with strong feelings on both sides, making it difficult to hold such a debate. However, I believe that the other parties come after the Progress Party in this area, but the question is just how long it will take this time before the other parties see that the Progress Party had a sensible policy in this area, and come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7355	Just a few comments on the tame of the debate. It gets a little weird when it's the representative Sandberg from the Progress Party who comes up here and complains about the black paint. For whom was it that went out into the hiking hall when the budget was presented, and yelled the highest of all and was quite indignant on behalf of the Norwegian people? But then it happened that they got some percentages in reducing alcohol taxes, and then the budget was much more edible. They accepted both increased excesses for the elderly and the disabled, and cut the tomb help, even though it is now said to be quite serious. It's not easy to understand! The representative, Sandberg, says that the rapporteurs from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are now sitting outside the municipalities and leaving schools, making it look the worst possible. But this is black paint! It is unprofessional black paint, for the examples we used here in the Chamber did not apply to the municipalities where there are rapporteurs from the Labour Party. That was the case with municipalities where there are rapporteurs from the Right and Christian People's Party, so it must be them as black painters! I believe that this is a mockery of local politicians and that we have completely gone. And I almost have to ask: has it been a long time since Sandberg visited a primary municipality? During the debate I have also noticed that the Christian People's Party uses the same rhetoric as the Advance Party. Yeah, you might learn quickly. The Christian People's Party is now talking about cost problems, not income problems, and they're talking about reorganization, coercion and turning back on the income base. The Christian People's Party now lacks understanding that local politicians are complaining. Yes, I hope many rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party who have the hope of being re-elected next year have noticed. To the representative of Gitmark and the housing support. I said quite a lot about the living quarters in my main post. I also said that I agreed with the proposals put forward by the Government in the budget. But they're in position who haven't talked about the housing support. You're the ones who aren't interested in it. And then you can't blame the opposition for not talking about areas that we think are important, among other things. the areas of housing and housing aid. Finally, I have to pay a visit to the representative of Østberg, who says that they have corrected the economy in Eastfold. But that's not right. Eastfold has lost 10 million. kr. That is why a unanimous assembly is now protesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7371	It was the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who made me ask for the word, even if I thought it was late. I wonder if we live in the same country. I live in Norway, the world's best country to live in, and Meltved Kleppa is drawing a reality where poverty shines against you. I myself sat in a cold church here a day. But that's not the first time. I often go to church, even in winter. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the local economy, and we're constantly concerned about improving him, but not just by cashing in more money, as the Center Party does. As a result, the industry is going down, that it's going down, that it's going down, that it's going down, that it's going down, that it's going down, that it's going down, that it's going down, and that it's going to be expensive. We're heading towards results, not just against consequences! We've started a tiresome job to break the payroll and the price spiral, to strengthen the business environment, to get more jobs, to reduce interest rates and the dollar rate, and thus get a good economy and balance in the local economy. That's actually the goal. This is Christian People's Party policy. Am I as proud of the budget as an attempt to hare down? Yes, as I said, in many areas I am, not everyone. I have not yet mentioned e.g. Health care, family policy, voluntary organisations, poverty package in Norway and unhelped people. Here is the good Christian People's Party policy. The community economy will seek the Christian People's Party to improve at all conditions that we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7384	In my home municipality, Kvinesdal, the local government decided yesterday to drop out of school, the old age home, and the fire station in the village where I live. It's not a black paint. This is a reality, and so the government must be able to stand in and take responsibility for it. That the government and its support party don't like reality, it gets to be. People probably record what's happening out there, at least in the communities affected by the government's priorities. We're not blackpainting. The working party paints red, and we're going to keep doing that. We're going to make sure people get the services they need, regardless of their place of residence and their economy. Therefore, we will grant more money to the municipalities. We want an environmental and industrial policy that means that industry and jobs do not move out of the country but stay in the districts. Therefore, we will grant more money through the SND and have a better quota action on CO2 emissions. We want a different distribution than the government wants. It should dry the government to admit, and they should dry up for it. The Christian People's Party elected page last year, it was not the Norwegian people who made that election. The Christian People's Party can still choose differently. The door of a more fair society is open at the Workers' Party. Then the Christian People's Party must change the painting food – not to the black one, but to the red one. They must want more money for the municipalities, they must be against the unsocial cuts they are now in, they must be for a producing business in the districts, they must be against sending Grandma out for tenders, and they must be for a warmer society for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7393	The government has said, the Council of State has said and pointed out and acknowledged again in the debate today, that there is an imbalance in the local economy. It has been pointed out that this has built up over the years, there is nothing that has happened to this Government. Through the consultation arrangements between the Government and the KS, which the Bondevik I government started, this problem needs to be discussed and solutions proposed. Many municipalities have difficulty. The representatives of the Christian People's Party have expressed this in the debate today. Many have expressed concern about the increasing unemployment rate. The Christian People's Party has done it today. We're busy securing the workplaces, just to do something about this. We have to pursue a comprehensive policy, and that's probably what's been missing in terms of what's been going on in a lot of speeches today. We need to pursue a policy with a tight budget. I've said I'm glad that it gives results. If our debates in this Chamber are to continue like this, I am afraid that this Chamber will be in the process of building up under the political debate. The main speakers of the Workers' Party today were more concerned with what the Government meant and not what she perceived that the Government meant. Socialist Left Party Heikki Holmås has told us that the government later as if. The government does not pretend to be, it wants to help and implement measures to help the weakest. It would have been more interesting if Heikki Holmås had told us what SV stands for, than what State Council Erna Solberg thinks. And not least when the councillor Erna Solberg is present in the hall, it will be more interesting to hear from Erna Solberg what she thinks, than to hear it from the representative Heikki Holmås! The Christian People's Party does not in any way lack an understanding of what the rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party have to say. We call them to meetings and have dialogues. We'll tell you what's in the state budget, and we'll have a good cooperation with them. I hope for future debates that representatives will be more concerned about telling what they stand for, and not spreading lies about what others stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7410	It is the President’s view that it is quite costly to mention other representatives’ posts as ‘loyal’. The President is, moreover, of the opinion that all the representatives who go to the pulpit must look right on the clock! We've been on for well over five hours now, and it can't be very much unsaid! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7415	I think there are many strong words in this debate. One of the strong words that have fallen came from Signe Eye, who said that it was a'scorn' to the local politicians what Per Sandberg said, and what the Government did. I want to say that I meet many local politicians. I meet many local politicians who are concerned with the imbalance between tasks and how to meet service needs. So they're experiencing money as one problem, but they're actually experiencing the steering lever in this hall in individual areas and in details as well as a very big problem. Yesterday there was a big look in the VG that I was wrong. But when I read through that article from a number of Labour Party rapporteurs, I discovered that most of what they thought I was wrong about, in fact, things I agree with them completely, but where they believe that their own party is wrong! Because it was corrected, among other things: to the whole orphanage arrangement, and it was aimed at the need to take control and detailed controls in this room. I say this because it relates to an important point proposed by a minority in the position, namely a plan to balance tasks and revenues in the local government sector. If we're ever going to balance, it's not just to talk about income, you have to talk about reducing the problems and the constraints on the problems. The government is interested in getting at that balance point, but it is impossible to do so if we are to simultaneously get new reforms that are tying up extra resources. We have had a debate on the situation for 2003. If we are to follow the kindergarten agreement and what is already in the mental health promotion plan and in the 2004 old-age care plan, there are $3.5 billion in bonds and that before the next steps in the kindergarten sector! It should take you a little bit inward when you think we have the money to solve the new problems all the way. There are actually several things that matter, and I think we should take a joint responsibility for it. At that time, we might not have used the strong terms, and local politicians in general had gained more respect for the doers and barbers of national politics in these contexts. It's the government willing to join the discussion with a majority on the Biggest. So I just want to say that I think it is interesting that what is being produced as the main injustice is that everyone loses NOK 4000 in burial aid, that it is so terrible that Rimi-Hagen's heirs will not get NOK 4000 in burial aid, and that Trond Giske as AUF leader would have higher inheritance tax and higher wealth tax, now is most concerned that people will inherit as much as possible. Then there's a lot of change in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7430	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7433	I asked the Council of State instead about the situation of the Yellow Municipality compared to other municipalities that are in an equally difficult situation. The councils have ensured that one municipality has received extra funds, while very many others have not received it. Is it possible to get an explanation of why this is the case for this one municipality? It seems that if you have a special close contact with the government, you get one, and if not, you don't get one. The second concerns immigration, asylum and refugee policy. I have been in the municipal committee for four years with Erna Solberg, and I felt that she was one of the most bottom-solid defenders of important principles when it came to refugee and asylum policy. That is why I want to ask Erna Solberg if she feels well in the company she has come into, when it is now the Progress Party that pushes through proposals in refugee and asylum policy, and when she hears the attitudes behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7440	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a brief remark. We're going to keep going for a long time if everyone in this room is going to have the last word!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7445	I don't think it makes politicians disdain that people argue against each other and try to understand what the others think. What I think is creating political contempt is that people are trying to dissociate themselves from the responsibility for what they do. When the municipal minister says that there are no short-term measures, I have to be allowed to point out that there are, in fact, some short-term measures, and then I have to try to explain why she is trying to say that there are no short-term measures. When I say that the homeless and the poor are not being helped, it's because it's actually that the municipalities have so little advice that they don't give social follow-up to the drug addicts in the home. The reason for this is the tight local economy, and it is said that the tight budget is the reason for the tight local economy. But it's not like that. There are a lot of ways to keep a tight budget, and we have an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7452	I'm not going to take Heikki Holmås' challenge. I will only answer the question related to the Yellow Municipality. Every year — both during this government, i.e. in 2002, and in previous years — some municipalities have had so many financial problems that there have been particularly difficult situations. Some of the financial problems are solved by discretionary means on the part of the county councillors, and some are solved by making advances on future grants, sometimes with repayment, sometimes not. For example, both Bergen and Trondheim received extraordinary grants this year because of such a situation. What has happened in the Yellow Municipality is that they have had major payment problems in relation to their expenses. We have, in cooperation with the County of Sogn and Fjordane, been working on how to find solutions to this. We've had a consulting company inside to help them focus on how to get their economy in a long-term balance sheet. We have said that in this work for some years, provided that at the end of 2006, they are in balance, we will provide them with extraordinary means of discretion to come into that balance sheet situation. However, it assumes that the Yellow Municipality is willing to take the necessary conversion measures to balance in 2006, and this will be done via the State of Sogn and Fjordane. We have also said the same in our own words to the County of Finnmark – where Evy-Ann Midttune is the county rapporteur, who must not be believed to have had a particularly close relationship with neither the municipal minister nor others in the government – because they also have a dramatic problem with the economy. Now it's a little less dramatic than they thought, but we've given the same offer in terms of professionalism and helping them make a plan, and we'll give them funds for a transitional period to implement that plan. It's a plan to balance out. We've perceived Yellow Municipality to be in an acutely accumulated very difficult situation, which is worse than the others, and it's a small municipality. Other municipalities that are in an equally difficult situation will also be treated in this way, so that we do not simply get payment stops in some municipalities. But that doesn't necessarily mean that these are municipalities that have the worst economy. Such situations may be the result of poor governance. We have previously had municipalities that had to get help because they have guaranteed financial resources for financial investments, and where the state has had to go in and help. It's not unusual. What might be special is that there have been very clear and tough conditions in relation to the Yellow Municipality that money is not paid out without them coming into balance. Because there are several municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane that have experienced a difficult economic situation, some of this money will also come from the Ministry of Local Affairs, because the municipality of Sogn and Fjordane will be too small.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7463	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7467	I have asked questions both to the Progress Party and to the State Council on the right to challenge, if it is suitable for all municipalities, if it is suitable for all services. I noticed that I have not received a response either from one or the other. I understand that, because then they probably have to admit that he has limited influence in some municipalities. We have visited 37 people who say that they have put off competition as far as they can. These are the smallest municipalities in the world. So the government is busy with a good family policy. That's good. But a good family policy is consistent with a community economy where there is consistency between tasks and means, so parents can avoid being alarmed at the closure of schools and leisure facilities, and also grown-up kids avoid being alarmed that their old mother and father may be exposed to a minimum of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7474	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7477	The Progress Party is very pleased that we are now getting a right to challenge. I don't think there are any restrictions on what can be put out of competition. That there will be different impacts on the size of municipalities and regions — yes, but there is no restriction on the outsourcing of competition. I would also like to take the opportunity to answer the question of whether I have been in a primary municipality. I think it was Andersen's representative from SV who asked me. I live in a primary municipality. The primary municipality has come to its feet after four years by rationalising and streamlining the way the Progress Party says, and now the economy is soon in place in that municipality. It's clear that it's completely possible to do that. It's just the will it's on. I would also like to say that the Progress Party has municipal government groups around the whole country. It's strange, then, that our groups who sit on the local government around get the budgets balanced by preserving and defending the warm hands and cutting off the paper mills. It is fully possible to do so in most municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1211]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7502	I should try to be short. The purpose of the Directive is to regulate employee impact in a new European company form, a form of company that is equal to the country in which the company is registered. It is important to stress that employees of the new form of company should not get any worse arrangements when it comes to corporate democracy than they used to be. Norway and Scandinavia otherwise have corporate democratic rights which are in fact missing from other countries, and the directive for the European company has a lower impact on employees than one in Norwegian limited liability companies. We, who are opposed to the EU, can well regret the low labour force impact in the EU. SV, the Central Party and the Labour Party have entered in this case that they assume that the Government will work to ensure that Norwegian attitudes to employee participation are implemented across the EU. You can do that, of course, but I guess it's far ahead. What the Government must, and will pay attention to, is, of course, that the impact of Norwegian workers on their own workplaces is in line with Norwegian standards where Norwegian companies had to participate in the European company. Norway is not a member of the EU, and employees are not affected per year. today in such a company. The implementation of the Directive will therefore require a legislative amendment. The Committee believes that it is natural to await the outcome of the expert group appointed by the Commission when it comes to the implementation of the Directive. Furthermore, we can learn something from how this is done in other countries. The Committee recommends that the Stortinget approve the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7525	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1220]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7541	It's late, and I'll be short. It is a unanimous municipal committee recommending that the Storting give its consent to the decision of the EEA/EFTA States to participate in the EU programme on Community measures to stimulate employment. The Employment Programme was adopted by the EU on 10 June of this year and aims to promote cooperation and exchange of information on employment policy. This is a continuation of the EU programme on analysis, research and cooperation in the field of employment and labour market for the period 1998-2000, in which Norway participated with good experience. The objectives of the EU employment strategy are broadly consistent with Norwegian targets in this area. In particular, the various processes in the EU for the exchange of information and good practices and the development of methods and instruments for the follow-up and evaluation of the strategy are of interest. It is short and useful for Norway to participate in the programme because it gives us, both authorities and organisations, access to the methodology and knowledge development that takes place within the framework of the EU employment strategy. The majority of the municipal committee, the representatives of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party also emphasise in the vote the importance of Norway being given the opportunity to participate in the EU employment strategy, which is not covered by the EEA Agreement through its participation in this EU programme. This strategy is a central part of the EU’s so-called Lisbon strategy, which is to develop the world’s most competitive and knowledge-based market on a sustainable and social basis. In my view, it is very important for Norway to participate in this knowledge development in order to stimulate employment in this country too in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1221]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7562	There shall be a vote on cases No. 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7569	A total of 35 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2-9, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 10 to 33, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 34 and 35, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of It is first voted on framework-independent minority proposals. Proposals Nos. 34 and 35, from the Centre Party, are admitted to voting. Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish its own head office in order to promote inter-municipal cooperation in connection with the 2004 Municipal Proposition.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget a proposal that the revenue from the document fee be earmarked as a programme for the construction of non-profit rentals, low-intensity buildings and other subsidised dwellings subject to price regulation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7606	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10–33, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a referendum on the continued existence of the county municipality is held in the county and municipal elections in 2003.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to impose requirements for the disposal of own suitable housing for the spouse concerned as a condition for family reunification in Norway with a foreign spouse.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that no family reunification be given in Norway for married couples unless both spouses have reached the age of 24’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that no family reunification be granted to foreign spouses in the case of forced marriage.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that family reunification take place in the country where a family has the largest overall connection.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to withdraw a letter dated 5 July 1993 from the Ministry of Justice that the police should not be able to intervene in churches and prayer houses to fetch people with power.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the revised budget to downgrade the year’s budgeted receipt of asylum seekers from 16000 to 8000.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a ‘fast paragraph’ into the Foreign Affairs Act so that applications for asylum which are ‘clearly groundless’ are rejected without any right of appeal. Asylum seekers from Member States of the Council of Europe shall be heard immediately at the place of arrival and the decision shall, as a general rule, be taken immediately after the end of the hearing. If this is difficult for practical reasons, the applicant shall remain in custody until the decision is taken.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the ‘15-month humanitarian residence rule’ without exception.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian municipalities are not obliged, against its will, to receive asylum seekers.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to intensify the establishment of ‘extended’ closed UDI receivers.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of specific asylum recipients organised in order to provide for a strong restriction on the freedom of movement or full detention of asylum seekers for whom such restrictions are imposed by the authorities.’;» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that asylum applications be addressed to Norwegian foreign stations or to the Norwegian border authority.’; Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish the necessary access or authorisation for the foreign authorities to hold specific asylum seekers in receptions with strong restrictions on the freedom of movement or full custody of the recipient until the application has been completed.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to bring the Centres against ethnic discrimination.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to start work on the foreign student’. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to start work on the closure of the Sameting.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make proposals to ensure that asylum seekers who have been refused asylum application are immediately sent out of the country.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for alternative funding from secondary schools and social welfare institutions, based on a single-cost financing.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the mandate of the Plan Law Committee so that a new part of the Planning and Building Act is based on the termination of the County Planning Act.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate trials where municipalities which it wishes can assume responsibility for public transport and related funds.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop proposals in which individual municipalities and inter-municipal cooperation bodies are to take over the role of regional development manager, and thus the instruments assigned to the county council in relation to regional economic development.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to agree to attempts by municipalities to assume responsibility for secondary schools whose individual municipalities wish to do so.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make practical efforts to entrust the county municipality’s tasks to the municipalities and to terminate the county municipality if a majority of the population and municipalities in a state wish to participate in such an experiment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7742	It is then voted on the proposals 2-9 of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government of the revised national budget to provide a mechanism for compensating county councils for more than 5 years with a sum equivalent to the deficit accumulated by county councils in the hospital sector in 2001 and which the state health enterprises have returned to the county municipality as a whole and for all other expenditure related to the activities for which the State has now taken responsibility.The first instalment is entered in the revised national budget for 2003.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate attempts by freer local taxpayers. The objective of such a scheme must be to allow municipalities to increase the taxation over time in order to implement key policy priorities.’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to suspend the enforcement of decisions based on the provision of a residence permit for women following a life crime or those claiming to have been subjected to gender-based persecution until the review of the law has been completed.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the use of ODA-approved funds for the settlement of refugees and measures for immigrants be phased over a period of up to 3 years’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers are automatically responsible for child protection and have an equal offer with Norwegian children under the care of child protection.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the reception of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers is given the status of child protection institutions.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case for its individual life situation. Saka should include: held an assessment of specific housing policy measures and an assessment of how public charges can be structured according to a system that prevents undesirable economic differences.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2003 to submit proposals to the Storting in order to gradually open up the housing aid scheme for unaccompanied children, other lone households and other households.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7797	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit without delay proposals for a government loan scheme or a fund scheme to enable municipalities to cover their pension obligations. The purpose of such a scheme is that municipalities and county councils may borrow funds from the country or draw on the fund when the pension contribution is above the average but has to pay back or into the fund when the pension contribution is below the average. The use of the scheme by municipalities and municipalities shall not be taken into account when assessing the economic situation of municipalities in relation to the right to raise other loans in the market.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e7812	A vote shall now be taken on the proposal for a decision in the framework area 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e9917	The Government Parties and the Advance Party are behind the setting. The President assumes that the other parties want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e9930	Now we're going to deal with area seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e10154	Here, too, the government parties and the Progress Party are behind the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e10167	Then there is still to be a vote over C. Framework-independent decisions. The President will first vote on the position I, II, III, V and VI, then on IV and VII and on XVIII and then on XIX.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e10210	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e10311	Here is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Center Party behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e10333	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-12-2.ana.ud1771e10381	There is no record.
