ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e34	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e39	I propose Ranveig Frøiland and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e44	Ranveig Frøiland and Kjell Engretsen are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Ranveig Frøiland and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected as presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative Heikki Holmås will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e49	I would like to make a private proposal on behalf of myself and Inga Marte Thorkildsen on the age limit for cosmetic operations and the ban on advertising for cosmetic surgery.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e54	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e66	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Per-Kristian Council of State Odd Einar Council of State Einar Steensnæs The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e85	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The Labour Party believes that there is reason to worry about the increasing unemployment we see. Since Per-Kristian Foss became Minister of Finance, over 14 000 more have been registered as unemployed, and developments do not seem to stop. On the contrary, the Government estimates in its draft government budget for next year that about 100,000 people may be unemployed overall next year. The Labour Party believes that the Government has not taken this development seriously enough. Short-term measures for the unemployed and the lack of action against industry are examples of this. My question then is: does the Minister of Finance think that he and the Government have done what has been possible to avoid more and more people remaining without work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e94	The Government has submitted a budget in which the overall objective is to secure jobs, in particular in the competitive industry. Both the employee organisations and employers’ organisations have set out one main requirement in advance: the budget must be tight in order to help mitigate the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. That is what is important for the competitive industry. This is about what, among other things. The head of the Bjørndalen Joint Undertaking said at a conference before the budget was presented. In addition, industry has made a number of other demands for tax relief. We have met one of the main requirements, including: to extend the R & D depreciation scheme to all enterprises. It is a modernisation and conversion measure in line with the UK's research and education priorities. So yes, the offensive measures are present. We actively strengthen Aetat through increased follow-up of jobseekers, and we also strengthen labour market measures with 600 new places. We say as governments have so often said before, among other things. worker party governments, that if the development of the vacancy would make it necessary, we are prepared to return to the question of the number of places of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e101	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that the Labour Party and the Government agree that a tight budget is important in today's situation. But despite that, the government outlines that there are going to be more unemployed. And then we find it quite incomprehensible that the Government also proposes to exacerbate the situation of those who are actually unemployed, both through changes in the permit scheme and by cutting the amount of money. So one who gets unemployed is getting less living for, and yesterday, from the Swedish Federation of Construction Industries, it was said that the changes proposed by the Government in the law on permits will certainly lead to more people being laid off. What is the Minister of Finance's answer to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e108	The measures proposed by the Government of changes related to day-to-day payments are not linked to the level of compensation for current day-to-day payments. It is related to tightening up the requirements for entry into the day-to-day arrangements. I have looked back a little bit to see what has been done with the day-to-day arrangements in the past. The principles we are now using for the day-to-day scheme, namely that it should stimulate more active self-employment, find its ideological anchoring in the Kleppe Committee, from the beginning of the 1990s, where similar principles were outlined. The budget submitted by the Labour Party Government the following year or years has also tightened up the day-to-day arrangements in similar ways as the Government has now done. At that time, the level of unemployment was significantly higher. Even now, it is important that we stimulate and convert people to get out of the job queue more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e115	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e118	Like the representative Solberg, I am also very concerned about the development of unemployment, and it should also worry the government more than it actually does. It is quite possible that we are facing a situation during the winter with 100,000 unemployed. At least the predictions are relatively gloomy, and we now see that there are many redundancies also in businesses that we presumptuously thought went very well. The government's answer to this is the classic mantra that only we have a tight budget, so everything goes well. And given another situation, you get a tight budget and this isn't going well, what will the government do? One thing is that you say you will come back to Stortinget, but that will help very little. That means you might have to take some more offensive grip. Where it is possible to take a grip, and where there is high unemployment, is in the construction industry. There the Government has not at all followed up what is in collective action, on the NSB and on various infrastructure measures, in order to get more people to use public transport. This is a highly targeted and accurate tool for getting employment in an industry that is now experiencing employment and which is likely to experience higher employment over the winter. Will this be the thing that the Government will come back to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e125	There were a lot of questions here. One point: Of course, the government is concerned about any tendency to increase unemployment. But there is reason not to exaggerate the predictions that are presented. We expect a certain increase in the unemployment rate in 2003 and forecasts suggest a decrease again in 2004 and 2005. So it's not a lastingly higher level of materiality that the forecasts suggest. All the measures contained in the budget are aimed at combating unemployment. What is at least going to be wrong is following the SV’s recipe – most recently tried in Stortingen yesterday, but without having to agree – by changing monetary policy, by increasing taxes and taxes. In any case, if you are concerned about the cost situation of competitive business or other business, there is no answer to increasing taxes and taxes, as the Swedish authorities have called for. The collective effort in the budget is among those areas in the transport sector which are actually growing quite sharply. I'm not going to go into the Storting's treatment of the budget now, but if you want further priority in the transport sector, we'll be responsive to that. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e134	Yes, also for the president's club – we get hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e137	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e141	It is very worrying to see the development of the value-creating business in mainland Norway – businesses shut down, gradually wetter or move to other countries where they can be competitive. The Industry Committee has recently returned from Lithuania, where 200 Norwegian companies had established themselves in value-creating activities. We're experiencing the same thing now, for example. in Sweden. There's a big look about this in today's Evening Post. The Progress Party believes that in Norway we should use some of our financial freedom to create framework conditions at significantly lower world-class taxes and taxes to compensate for some unfortunate things by being on the outskirts of Europe, having poor infrastructure, etc. But my question to the Council of State is: Will the fight against unemployment, and in particular what we have in value-creating activities, be task no. one, and what in the State budget contributes to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e150	The answer is yes and everything. Yeah, it's job number. 1 and everything in the State budget is aimed at strengthening the basis of competitive industries and of other industries. The distinction between the competitive sector and other industries which are no longer screened to the same extent will be smaller and smaller. It is true that in the case of observations of travel activities, it can be seen that Norwegian industry is also buying itself out. There are many reasons for this, not only the cost situation, but also market proximity — perhaps not for Lithuania or the Baltic States, where the situation is more closely linked to the desire to be part of and build a growing economy and where the cost level is initially low. In fact, the Norwegian authorities have stimulated establishments in the Baltic countries, including: through SND. It has happened under previous governments, as mentioned. I believe to remember that it was the representative of Enoxsen who was the municipal minister when that arrangement was established.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e157	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e160	No, it's about. 10 months ago Odelstinget dealt with the law on payroll during the period of leave and made the changes that the Government then proposed. In addition, there was a slight adjustment in June. There is no doubt that, in any case, in the competitive sector, there will be overdrafts with the proposal now put forward by the Government. So I registered that Per-Kristian Foss said that when it applies to the situation of those who receive a daily allowance, there will be no reduction in the benefits from the state. That's what I think I'm wrong. I'd like to ask the council to explain it to me, because the government is removing, among other things. the holiday allowance supplement, which means approx. 9.5 pst. In the case of average unemployment it will mean approx. NOK 17 000 over a whole year. I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e167	What I said was that the level of compensation for current day-payments is not cut, but we raise the threshold in order to get into the day-to-day arrangements – otherwise in line with what labor party governments have done before, and so late as in the late 1990s. With regard to the extended liability of companies for payment during leave, I have to say that I do not accept without delay the notice I see coming from some companies – it is usually linked to a lobbying activity against the budget proposal and must be understood on that basis – that cancellations rather than permits will be chosen without delay. Industry has reported on a very tight labour market. It is then to go to cancellations, which may be a significant loss for the company, rather than to take the costs of cancellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e172	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e175	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. In yesterday's newspaper, we read the following: ‘Policeman of Tromsø, Truls Fyhn, applies for the travel allowance for asylum seekers.’ And then it says, ‘Tramsø experiences a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers committing criminal acts in Tromsø. The police officer in Tromsø seems incomprehensible that asylum seekers have access to travel away from the receptions. – Asylum seekers should not have the opportunity to travel anywhere, says Fyhn.’ This is in line with the previous proposal of the Progress Party to set up special asylum recipients where asylum seekers, who might have been referred to as ‘welfare seekers’, cannot leave the area in which they are to be located. In particular, it should apply to asylum seekers who, as we know from the outset, have groundless applications, largely asylum seekers from former Eastern Europe and countries of the former Soviet Union. Will the Government now respond to the many local communities that require more stringent measures so as to avoid the crime brought by these ‘welfare seekers’?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e194	Although this constitutionally does not fall within my remit, I will still answer. I think there are reasonable questions that are raised. The first question I think is whether you would accept that there is a crime committed by asylum seekers while they are our guests. We don't want to do that. In order to address this issue, practical cooperation procedures have been established between all relevant authorities. It is also the case that criminals should also be given priority when sending from Norway. The second part of the question concerns how to deal with groundless applications, of which there have been many. Here, the Minister of State has taken the initiative in total reorganising the reception system, as well as in the organisation of transit camps and camps. I can go deeper into this in a question that was later asked to me by the representative Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e203	The council says we won't accept this. But in practice, de facto, the government does it. It is also the case that the government budget expects 16 000 largely groundless asylum applications next year. That's the same thing as the record for the current year. It is an explosion in Norway and Sweden, while it is a halve in Denmark, which has put in place very good and sensible measures, which have also been proposed by the Progress Party in Norway. I would like to ask the Council of State, which is actually responsible for following up the wishes of police officers within the Government: will the Minister of Justice within the Government fight for the reorganization of asylum receptions, so that where there are groundless applications, asylum seekers are placed without access to access to the local population and commit crime? It is the Minister of Justice who can answer whether he takes responsibility for fighting crime, by taking up Truls Fyhn's views within the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e210	As you know, no government councillor is private-practice state councillor, nor is he a Minister of Justice. But of course, I'm answering on behalf of the Government, and the government's line is to reorganize the reception system, so that applications that go under groundless arrangements can be handled more quickly. It's making sure to address the problem that we know that 90 pst. have no identity papers. Actions shall be carried out near border areas in order to precisely stop people in this way, and the police should better identify them. And it is in close cooperation between the foreign agencies and the police that procedures have been set up to ensure that criminal relations cannot be accepted. Of course, as Minister of Justice and as a member of the government in general, I would like to discuss how we can avoid the arrival of asylum seekers with groundless asylum applications to Norway. We have a duty to give a port of refuge to those in need of protection, but we also have a duty to address what we can call "asyltourism".
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e217	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e221	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Finance. In a lot of areas of the government budget, it's like operating with planned figures or measures for the activity next year, and then budgeting. But in the field of asylum, it is actually the opposite. It's not like the government says that we've decided to accept so many and so many, that's why we're budgeting like that. In fact, the government says that we're sending out the farm as much money as we need because we don't have an overview of how many asylum seekers it's going to be. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is right and proper to budget for this area, while in many other areas people are told that we do not have enough money, so you have to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e230	In this area, Norway is bound by international conventions. It is not desirable or political in Norway to have neither an overview of conflicts that may arise, much less — and there I am going to violate conventions — to treat asylum seekers differently from those to whom we are bound by conventions. I hear the Progress Party is constantly talking about ‘shutting buses’ on the border. It sounds adorablely light. But we're actually bound by conventions that make it necessary for us to treat individuals as individuals. It is, as the Minister of Justice has so far stated, that it is up to a treatment procedure to be faster, but at the same time it is up to us to keep our Convention obligations. And it is on this basis that the Ministry of Local Affairs has made its predictions, provided unchanged legislation and provided that we do not break the conventions we are bound by.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e235	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e238	The NRK Dagsrevyen sent yesterday evening a report that showed that the oil industry is miles from reaching its goal of zero emissions by 2005, which was confirmed in 1997. On the contrary, SFT has demonstrated that the emissions of water produced, or in good Norwegian ‘contaminated water’ containing so-called alkylated phenols and polyaromatic hydrocarbons, are increasing by 20 pst. every year. This pollution threatens the reproductive capacity of the fish and is a direct threat to fish stocks and therefore to the fishing industry, which is also an important area for the Norwegian economy. The Head of Department of SFT, Marie Nordby, has stated that SFT ‘is uncertain whether oil companies have sufficient decision-making power to reduce emissions’. My question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is therefore: How will he contribute to stimulating the decision-making of oil companies in this matter? It seems quite obvious that with such a large increase in emissions, it is somewhat toothless to wait until 2003 for companies to report on what measures they are taking and how far they have come to reduce emissions, at least if they have reason to believe that they will not be met with tough measures if they do not show progress in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e247	Oilfields contain both oil and water. The water is separated from the oil. After the water has been cleaned, the water produced is discharged. This water produced contains a number of substances, including: a selection of alkylated phenols, which may have an effect on the reproductive capacity of the cod, i.e. on the hormones of cod even at low concentrations. These are tests carried out in laboratories, not in the open sea. There is every reason to pay attention to these issues. However, it is not possible to draw safe conclusions. There is considerable consensus in the research community and among those working on these issues that too little is known today to draw safe conclusions. However, there is every reason to have a precautionary principle and to be active in that respect. That's why the government has set aside $8 million. kr in the year's budget and will continue to do so next year, so that one can discover the measures necessary to prevent the discharge of such substances. This has an active relationship with the Government. There is agreement between the fishing industry, the research institutions and the authorities on the strategy to be followed. In 2003, i.e. For spring, one should have a summary. The authorities will then ensure that the necessary strict requirements are imposed on the oil business so that one does not risk conflict with our oil business and in any way render it unsafe for Norwegian fisheries in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e256	We in SV are opposed to the opening of the vulnerable Barents Sea, among others. because we fear the pollution from produced water and that it will destroy the fishing industry. Can the Council of State at least give the Storting a guarantee that he will not recommend a single permit for oil extraction in this vulnerable area until independent and robust research results can be presented to demonstrate that the planned activity does not involve short-term or long-term effects that harm Norwegian fishing interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e261	I agree with Mr Vaggen Malvik that before Norwegian oil and gas activities move further north, we must be sure that we can do this with due care, that all the potential risks associated with such oil activities in an Arctic climate can be managed without this having any dramatic consequences for the environment or for fisheries. It's a consideration that the Government wants to take. This is clearly formulated in the Sem Declaration. I have launched a separate impact assessment to see what the possible effects of all-year petroleum activities can have from Lofoten and northwards. This impact assessment is a necessary prerequisite for our progress. And I can assure you that the Government does not in any way take any steps towards further petroleum activity until we have certainty of what we are actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e268	There will be follow-up questions – Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e271	About alkylated phenols, I've spoken before. I have a slightly different question, but it applies to the same field. I've had a good time getting on board the Norne field, on the Norne ship, since I got on the Stortinget. I didn't make it. I got a letter from Statoil in June 2001, and I have a question for you. Statoil has no towing vessel at its installations. It is the supply boat that acts as a stand-by boat at each installation, and the daviette motorboat that hangs in the davits, which is to act as an oil protection guard in that field. By that tugboat there are 130 horses. On the supply ship there are 13 000 horses. So by pulling oil bilges out of this supply vessel, there are 13 000 horses at one end of the bilge. And there are 130 horses at the other end. [[The President clubs.]] It must go wrong! In the letter of June 2001, which I received from Statoil, they announced that they would conduct an oil protection exercise in the inner waters of Lake Sandness. I was supposed to be there. I don't have to be on land! Is the Council satisfied with this, and is he satisfied that there is no towing vessel at the oil installations? [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e282	Time's up! The President has some problems seeing the relationship with the main question, but nevertheless!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e287	It is well known that Norwegian petroleum activities are carried out in accordance with the strictest criteria. It concerns both safety, health and the environment. In all these three areas, the authorities want to be in the first place. We are working on the precautionary principle, and if there is any question as to how the oil operations are carried out by individual companies, the authorities have bodies to deal with such issues. First of all, the Directorate of Oil and, as far as safety is concerned, the employment and administrative authorities are the right ones. I would like to take this more technically highlighted question from the representative of Bastisen and see if it is in any way such that there is reason to look into this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e295	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e298	I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Minister of Justice about oil pollution and preparedness. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e303	Follow-up questions shall be linked to the main question!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e309	Yes, and the main question is about oil pollution! What is known is that there are potentials for large oil pollution along the Norwegian coast associated with Russian oil transport, which will have major consequences for fish stocks in the event of accidents. My questions to the Minister of Justice are: What are Norwegian authorities doing about this transport? Has a view of the Coast Guard on standby? Is there a certainty in relation to ropeboats that can tow to land if accidents occur? What concrete action does the Government take in relation to this problem, which can quickly have major consequences for fish stocks?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e318	The President will now make it clear clearly that the President hopes that the representatives will respect the need for supplementary questions to be linked to the main issue. The main question was not primarily a question of oil pollution in the street where Hallgeir Langeland asks the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e321	This issue concerns a number of departments cooperating. It concerns, inter alia: the so-called KYBAL cooperation, where the Defence, Environmental Protection and also the Main Rescue Centre operate, and where they operate on the basis of the use of the Defence Resources to observe along the coast and, where appropriate, intervene to intercept if necessary. KYBAL cooperation is a collaboration between different departments, and it is precisely designed to capture different situations that may be threatening along our coasts and that relate to the vulnerability of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e326	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e329	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a question. Despite a low-precipitation summer, Norwegian power companies have tripled exports of power this year. This has led to little water in the power plants, and a number of power companies and analysts are now notifying record electricity prices until winter. What will the Council of State do to avoid getting into situations like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e336	There has been a record high power generation in the summer and especially in August, i.e. producers have used more water than they normally do at this time of the year. It is a power generation that has entered the Nordic power market. Norway participates in a Nordic power market, where prices are determined by supply and demand. Manufacturers have found it profitable, even with the low prices that have been in summer, to deliver increased quantities of power to the market. Overall, the liberalisation of the power market has been successful. Norwegian consumers today benefit from the fact that competition for supplies has led to low prices, but at the same time prices will vary according to the season, depending on what can be delivered to the market in relation to demand. This will lead to an increase in power prices in the future. But from our point of view, we do not see that the situation is such that we should move towards the high increases that are indicated, for example. on 30 p.m. It may be worth noting that the prices of the ‘10 on top’ Competition Surveillance Authority list for week 42 this year are significantly lower than the corresponding ‘10 on top’ list last year. So we're still in a positive position, even though we're going to have to expect some increase in power prices in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e343	It's true, as the Council of State says, that it's pretty much this far. But it's a much lower magazine filling at this time than what's normal in front of winter. There's every reason to believe that we're going to get a record high import when winter comes in, and there's a significant risk that in the next round it will lead to increased power prices. I am disappointed that the Council of State seems to think it is okay for Norwegian consumers to pay for the greed of the power companies in relation to emptying the warehouses at a time when it is known that there may be shortages until winter. So my follow-up question is: will the Council of State not at all look at new requirements for magazine filling at different seasons and thus regulate export opportunities more stringent than has been done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e350	It is very important that all those who have an exposure to power prices also understand how the market works. Norway participates in a Nordic electricity market, where Norwegian producers, in line with Swedish, Finnish and Danish producers, enter this market. For some time Norwegian producers will deliver more into the market than Norwegian consumers withdraw. In other parts of the year, Norwegian consumers may demand more power than Norwegian producers can deliver. This is an advantage for us. The flexibility of this large market to bring power from different areas of the Scandinavian countries enables us to keep the price of power at a low level. So it's not an opportunity, as it was before, to determine the power price neither by the government nor by the Storting. Overall, as I said, this has been an advantage for Norwegian consumers, and it has led to lower prices of power than we would otherwise have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e356	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Terje Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e359	The government writes in its draft government budget this year that they expect an increase in the energy price in the future. The Labour Party believes that this will affect especially small children’s families, industry and the public sector. It would be interesting to hear the Minister of Oil's assessment of what he thinks is an acceptable level of energy prices in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e364	The government does not suggest that we have a significant increase in electricity prices. For the development of alternative energy sources and for the expansion of new hydropower, it is important that the price of electricity is not too low. If the price of energy is too low, investment is also drying in, and new renewable energy sources cannot compete. Therefore, electricity prices at a reasonable level are desirable, both from an environmental point of view and in relation to achieving a good force balance. It is, as I said before, the market that determines this. Luckily, the power price has largely fluctuated within a reasonable turnaround, but it is clearly undesirable that we have strong price fluctuations, even though these fluctuations are well below what is the price of power in the European market. Thanks to this Nordic electricity market, Scandinavian countries can benefit from low electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e369	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e372	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Oil and Energy, because the Minister is in a government where there is a great deal of talk about the importance of environmental protection, especially in the rest of the world. This applies, for example: the strong demands made at the Johannesburg Conference on Renewable Energy Investment. The problem is that it is not followed up at home. In Johannesburg, there was a demand that you have a plan for 15 p.m. renewable energy and 10 pst. new renewable energy. This will also have meaning in relation to getting more energy, which will in the long term affect the electricity price. My question is, when is the plan to follow up here at home the big words abroad from the Government? I am also disappointed that the Council of State does not seem to be very concerned that we are going to have a strong increase in electricity prices over the winter. The working party now has a proposal under consideration in the Committee, which envisages that consumers should be able to have a smarter consumption and thus also influence their own electricity bill and bring the price down. So far we haven't seen any signals from the Government about it. What does the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e379	Any information that could make consumers more aware of their ability to influence their own electricity billing is valuable — for example: a consumer who considers that the fixed supplier holds an excessive price level in relation to his competitors may, free of charge, switch power supplies by day, including over the internet. This is an advantage for the consumer. With regard to the follow-up to the Johannesburg Conference, I point out that the Government had as its strategy the ability to get in touch with 15 p.m. renewable energy and 10 pst. new renewable energy sources. This obliges the Government to further invest in such energy supply. Some of these have been included in the 2003 budget. There you'll see that we'll be following our commitments and paying NOK 5 billion in ten years, so we're going to have 7 TWh new renewable energy in 2010. I am also aiming to be able to collect 3 TWh in energy saving, so that in 2010 we will be able to release the Norwegian market with 10 TWh environmentally friendly energy supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e386	It is true that there is something about renewable energy in the budget, but it is far from the demands of the Government on behalf of Norway in Johannesburg. So once again, I would like the Council of State to respond specifically to the question: when will the plan for concrete follow-up to the same thing here in Norway? If you think the power bill is too high, I think it's too easy to just say to the consumers: Change the power supplier! What our proposal is about is that we as consumers should be able to enter into contracts with our power suppliers for example. not to have on the heating cables at times of the day when most have it, and thus to be paid in the form of lower electricity bills. Is the Council of State in favour or against this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e393	Since this proposal is in Stortinget and I have not received an opinion, I will, of course, carefully consider it. I am open to all positive measures that can ensure the lowest possible price for consumers in this electricity market. With regard to new renewable energy sources, I just want to show that this government has set itself several bolder and bigger targets than the government of which Sylvia Brustad was a member. It is correct that the Workers' Party, after they left the government, set itself more bold targets in the processing of the supplementary communication for the climate notification. In response to their own message, which was the climate communication, they found out that in the supplemental message they could go another step further. That's good. But it was an opportunity that the Workers' Party also had when they put in government, but that they did not use.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e400	There will be follow-up questions – Inger S. Enger.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e403	Renewable energy sources interest us all, and I also know that the Minister is interested. My question goes into the same row. We've heard a lot about Enova. They're doing a good job, and it's been flagged by the minister that they're going to get increased funding. It is probably the case that the budget is about approx. Nine million. I think kr. Enova has too little money compared to the wishes of a lot of consumers. There are also a lot of projects that are ready to be realised if money is given. My question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is this: Could it be that part of the electricity charge, e.g. Two cents, could be earmarked so that that money could be given to Enova?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e412	The government is now increasing the economic space of Enova from next year if the Storting follows the Government's proposal, $79 million. kr, so we can get even closer to the goal of these 10 TWh in 2010. It's a dedicated, clear, committed goal that the Government wants to follow up. In this strategy, 0.3 cents of the net tariff should go to Enova. What Mr Enger is now proposing is that one should add another ear to Enova. It is not part of the government's proposal, nor is it in line with the majority of the Stortinges decided when Enova was established as a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e418	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e421	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. This applies to taxes, but not to the state budget for next year, because there is no tax relief to track anyway! On the other hand, the Sem Declaration Government has made quite substantial commitments on the tax side. In addition, it has been mentioned that the Skauge Committee should consider how to make changes to the tax system. We have also seen the Minister of Finance make statements recently, suggesting that the Government has plans for substantial tax cuts in next year's budget. My question to the Minister of Finance will be as follows: Is it by chance because next year's elections there is room for significant tax relief in next year's budget and not in this year's budget? Or is there anything in the outlook for the Norwegian economy that Stortinget is not familiar with? It's obviously hard for the government to find room now. Why would it be so much easier to find this room next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e428	It should be «budget proposals», not «budget».
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e431	There is enough Norwegian economy for 2004 that Stortinget does not know, but they share it with the Government! So far as the 2004 budget is concerned, no substantial work has been put into 2004 forecasts. We also have no plans to speed up the publication of the 2004 budget, if that was what the representative suggested in relation to the elections. No, the reason why there are some reliefs in taxes and taxes in the 2004 budget is because, as I have said in Stortinget a number of times earlier: the Skauge Committee comes with its suspension in December. They have been given an investigative task involving significant challenges in the area of property taxes, corporate taxation, the tax on capital income is more marginal and marginalised on employee income. They have been given as one of two investigative missions to look at a possible system conversion within a framework of NOK 10 billion in relief. The shadow committee's suspension is not included in the budget for the current year because the selection's suspension has not been delivered – that should be a reasonable explanation. It is then natural that this should be included in the budget for 2004, possibly in 2005. Another possible explanation for this is the obvious fact that we have stated in the Sem statement that we have the ambition to lighten taxes and taxes by NOK 31 billion. So far, we've reached 17, so there's still a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e436	Yes, I'm aware of that, but I've gone through the promises of the Sem Declaration. The government has left to remove the house tax, it costs approx. DKr 1.4 billion. It says to reduce the electricity charge, which is also increasing in the current year's budget, and then it kind of gets even more to reduce next year, but only one ear's reduction is 1⁄2 billion. It says you should do something about border trade. Yes, the proceeds collected there are approx. 16 billion kroner, I understand that the government has not intended to remove it, but it says a little bit about how much it costs to do some reductions. It says to raise the top tax and increase the bottom tax significantly. A relief in the base deduction of NOK 1200 has a proceeds of almost NOK 3 billion. And that's how you can keep going. The property tax costs $8 billion to be removed. Based on what you know about Per-Kristian Foss's way of thinking about, you'll estimate it to be about. 17 to 18 billion kroner in remaining reliefs, and that does not harmonize with what the Council of State itself said he has left to give relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e441	I thank you for your assistance in reading from the Sem statement. I can stress that it is still on the government's table and is regularly followed up. For the sake of order, two clarifications: in the current year’s budget, there are tax concessions for a total of DKK 10.6 billion – it would be possible to trace to it. It's not a small amount either. For the sake of order, when we restate charges, they do not increase. If we had not restated the fees, it would have been a relief. There are many challenges that remain. I am not going to explain here the distribution between different tax and tax concessions that must come into future budgets, but I can say that the Skauge Committee has also been given a mandate to look at system changes. It may involve changes in tax rates in different directions, but with relief as a sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e448	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e451	I also have a question about future tax reliefs and how to finance them, whether or not they are now to be financed by increased excesses to those who have poor health. This year, space has been found to reduce the top tax by 500 million. kr. The central statistical agency has calculated that we pay as much in proportion to health and social services as it pays in top taxes. The equity is paid mostly by those with the lowest income, the top tax by those with the highest income. 25 pst. of the chronically ill and disabled, pay more than NOK 10000 per year in proportion. What the government is doing this time is lifting the roof that's in place today for props, and it's costing us 400 million. kr. The exemption for the elderly and disabled in the case of excesses is 380 million. in additional expenditure, the special deduction for large expenditure amounts to 75 million, i.e. its effect. The government then finances the tax bill with increased equity, and then they return $90 million. kr in the so-called roof 2. The question is whether the continuation is also going to be like this. Is there an increased proportion of the excess tax to be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e458	I would also like to answer a question about excesses. But first to tax. It is not that today's peak tax applies to people with high incomes. The income limits at the peak tax entry point are actually adjusted up, but the average income for people in full-time jobs is still higher than the peak tax entry point. That's why it's wrong to talk about it as high incomes in this context, and we're talking about it in 2003. The government makes some changes to the excesses, and it has as its main purpose to ensure that we, who have small medical and health expenditures, pay a little more, while those who have particularly high expenditures are increasingly protected. For example, it involves: that those who do not currently have protection in relation to high health costs of physiotherapy, training, climate travel, etc. are given a ceiling that protects them from particularly high costs. I believe that this is a more targeted policy than the one that has traditionally been set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e467	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e470	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Before I take the main question, I would say that I think the finance minister had a little nonchalant response to Hill Marta Solberg earlier, where he actually drew into doubt that there are redundancies, that there are some closures of jobs in the districts. Then I'm going to ask the Minister of Finance to come over to my district, and he's going to get hundreds of prisoners from some businesses. My main question is on a letter from SND to the Minister of Industry, where SND clearly says that they get the same framework conditions as they had in 2001, they can create 60 000 new jobs – they guarantee it. I also want to refer to St.prp. No 1 on innovation and new jobs, where the Government withdraws SND’s mandate for innovation and research, a total of 40 million. kr. How does this harmonize with meeting the challenge we are now facing in terms of redundancies?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e482	If I've been hurt by acting nonchalantly towards the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, I'm sorry. But I generally spoke about the development of unemployment. I am aware that there are redundancies in any development in the Norwegian industry. Let me just remind you that in the years in which the Workers' Party ruled, the number of industrial job losses was consistently high. But the interesting thing to focus on is the net; it also creates new jobs in a resilient economy. That is why the Government in this budget has prioritised a strong commitment to public research efforts through the Research Council and a separate tax incentive scheme, which the Workers' Party, as far as I can remember, has always been a follower of, but never even proposed, on a proposal from the Hervik Committee, which is now to apply to all businesses. I have registered that many public organisations and, for that matter, public agencies and organisations that are lobbying in relation to the budget also to the Stortinget, promise what they can do with innovation. I focus on what a whole business and employee organisations said before the budget. They asked for a tight budget to help mitigate the cost pressure, interest rates and exchange rates, and asked for tax incentives related to research and development. They've both got them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e491	A tight budget – yes, the Workers' Party should also present it. But to what the Minister of Finance pointed out from the past: at that time the Workers' Party met in an offensive manner the increasing unemployment, among other things. with growth in industry through an industrial package in which there was a systematic turn of funds to active training, so that one was prepared to take on the new tasks that came. Then there is no answer to the unemployed to cut the daily allowance. I also noticed that Per-Kristian Foss when he presented the day-to-day payment scheme instead, was happy to go by and said nothing about the holiday money for the unemployed being removed. But my main question to Foss is: Will unemployment now be used as an instrument of economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e500	‘... as an instrument of economic policy?’ No, there is nothing in the budget that can get the representative’s thoughts on it. I have registered that it has been done by governments before, but there is nothing in the national budget or in the state budget that can get the thoughts anywhere near it. Active follow-up rather than passive day money – yes, that's what I actually said in a previous answer. When we strengthen Aetat with more than 200 new jobs, it is to get more active follow-up of the unemployed. When we tighten up something during the total daily allowance period, it is from the experience set out in the Kleppe Committee's position from the early 1990s onwards and the Labour Party's budget for 1997, which was the first budget of Stoltenberg, which the Minister of Finance defended in Stortinget, that its longer day period is, the latter starts increasing activity in order to get a job. And you've tightened up the arrangements. Similarly, now we're doing the same principle thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e507	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e510	If that's the way it is, it's job number. 1 to strengthen industry, it appears as a paradox that at the same time as one has a tight budget, one chooses to go straight to some schemes that will have a direct adverse effect on Norwegian industry. There is no doubt that the change in the rules of leave is a heavy burden not only for those who are so fortunate to be consulted in the Stortinget, but also for almost all companies in Norway that have seasonal variations – travel businesses, the yard industry, other parts of Norwegian industry. There is no doubt that the changes in the reimbursement scheme and the net pay scheme are a major burden on the Norwegian maritime industry. Nor is there any doubt that the SND remains at a historic low level as regards the ability to contribute to innovation or development work in industry. Does it not at all appear as a paradox to the Government that a stripping of industrial policy mechanisms while waiting for the tight budget to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e517	I do not regard permitting rules as an industrial policy system. I think it's an important principle that businesses pay for the expenses they actually have and apply to society. I think that's neat and correct in relation to the principle that has been followed by countless governments, including the government of which Marit Arnstad was a prominent member, namely on business-neutral arrangements. I don't think it's right to go in and give special tax subsidies or subsidies in another form to selected industries. The fact that pay levels are higher in Norway than in competing countries is a problem for all industries. The level of subsidy for individual industries reaching in many hundreds of thousands per. work, also replaces possible measures in general for the industries. That is why I believe in general measures rather than the earmarked measures, such as: The representative referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e522	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e525	My question is also to Per-Christian Foss. For the first time no distribution table has been presented in the State budget. The reasons for that might be complex, but it's pretty interesting to notice. Of course, we've asked about this, and the distribution effects, i.e. the changes in taxes on households, are unique. If you take families without children, it will be tax-enforcement for those who have income less than NOK 100000, of approx. 447 kroner, writes the department, while there will be tax relief for all with income over 350 000 kroner, up to 787 kroner – not large numbers, but the direction is unique. If you take the families with children, you will see that the same pattern prevails, that those with low incomes get tax austerity, while those with higher incomes get tax relief. My question to the representative Foss will then be: Is it by chance that this distribution table has not been published? Or is it that the Government itself actually believes that this should not really be published, because it clearly goes in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e536	The president assumes that the representative meant the Foss State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e539	State council, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e544	No, we don't keep secret letters that are sent open to SV. There's no secret of this. The letter dated 11 October, Table 3 on page 4, makes it very clear that it is not a proper representation to say that percentages are given the greatest reliefs on top. There are actually smaller numbers at the top if you look at the tax changes in the table than it is at the middle and at some lower incomes. But we have also explained in the budget why distribution tables are actually little interesting. When you include: in the case of family allowances, re-priorities are made from tax changes, which are included in the tables, and, in addition, lower parental benefit for kindergartens, which are not included in the tables, it may appear that, among other things, a family which receives somewhat lower child allowances. cut in the infant allowance, does not come out better because if the parental payment goes down. In that case, the tables will not be adequate for the actual situation of that family, such as: saves a thousand copies per month. Children per day month, at the discretion of the Government, with a possible decrease from, for example: NOK 3 500 per year. Children per day month to NOK 2 500. Then you save a thousand pieces. But it won't be shown in any table, because the tables don't contain municipally determined parental payments in kindergartens. Therefore, the tables will not be particularly informative. But SV has wanted them and has received everything they have asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e552	It didn't seem very easy to understand, but maybe it was meant to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e555	It'll always be that there'll be different things that draw in different directions. Distribution tables are published in all years, because they say something about what direction. It is clear that if you add increased own-payments, this distribution table will go even more in the wrong direction, because this will affect those with low incomes harder than those with high incomes. People don't live by percent, but by dollars, and if you look at the sum of heads, the direction is unique. Not a great deal, but it's clearly in the direction that those who have the most, relatively, get the most, and those who have the least, get tax incentives in this case. What I could imagine asking Foss about is the following: I guess this – although the government is now justifying why you haven't done it – is a mistake. But especially because the government is now offering major tax reliefs in next year's budget, I assume that the Foss Government will ensure that distribution tables are published, so that the Storting without having to write a letter will be presented in the national budget and government budget, as has been the case for a long time in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e560	The answer is no. We're going to explain the tables we're going to produce, and we're going to explain why we don't produce tables. There's no mistake. We've clearly explained why the tables give little interesting results, and I'm going to try a very simple explanation: if you save on kindergarten expenses, and it's not included in the table, it might show that the table contains a small loss. But the relationship between loss and what you save is what's interesting for your family, and you pay a hundred times more in taxes, but it saves a few thousand copies of child care expenses – on parental pay – it says that it's what actually counts. What is clear in the budget on the distribution side between families, I ignore industry and business, is that those who have children come out well, in relation to, among other things. lower parental and slightly increased cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e565	Then the time for the oral questioning process is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e577	I would like to thank you for this opportunity to present three issues that we should not wait for the ordinary foreign policy statement to have a debate on. International terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction present the most acute threat to international peace and security. It is this recognition that, since 11 September last year, has brought together the overwhelming majority of the world's countries in the fight against those who, by such means, will hit the fundamental values of society and thus undermine human dignity and our democratic form of society. Today, international attention is primarily linked to the ambiguities surrounding Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. This uncertainty is itself a threat to international peace and security. The seriousness of the situation is reinforced by the fact that the regime in Baghdad has been willing to use this type of weapon to achieve its objectives. Twice Iraq has invaded neighboring countries, killing thousands of its own citizens and Iranian soldiers with chemical weapons. We must therefore be prepared for the fact that in a given situation the Iraqi regime will once again be able to use such weapons if the possibilities for doing so are not removed. Since the end of the Gulf War in 1991, Iraq has been instructed by the UN Security Council to contribute to the total destruction, removal or harmless disposal of its weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. The Council has also ordered Iraq to provide unrestricted access for UN weapons inspectors. The requirements for Iraq are set out in a series of binding resolutions of the Security Council. Similarly, we – from the United States and other related allies – have been informed that Iraq still has access to chemical and biological weapons. Iraq shall also have an active nuclear programme and in a short time be able to develop nuclear weapons if the regime has access to high-rich uranium. We have also been made aware that Iraq has delivery systems that enable it to attack neighbouring countries with such weapons of mass destruction. This information is also fully addressed in independent research reports. But the only sure way to bring certainty to issues related to Iraqi weapons of mass destruction is through a full and unhindered implementation of weapons inspections in the country. For members of the Security Council — including Norway — the main challenge now is to ensure credible inspections. Inspections are not the aim in itself, but a means for the international community to ensure that Iraq no longer disposes of weapons of mass destruction. Following President Bush' speech at the UN General Assembly on 12 September, Iraq has agreed to allow the weapons inspectors to return without any conditions. It is too early to say whether Iraq's alleged unconditional consent involves a real change of attitude and compliance with the requirements of full cooperation with the UN. All experience unfortunately suggests that promises from the regime in Baghdad must be viewed with a significant degree of scepticism. The head of the arms inspectors, Hans Blix, has had discussions with Iraqi representatives on the practical arrangements for resumption of inspections. According to Blix, there are still some unresolved questions. Blix himself prefers the mandate of UNMOVIC to be fully clarified before the inspectors enter. This is also my position. We should have a clear and unambiguous resolution from the Security Council, with a clear and unambiguous timetable, as the basis for new inspections. Another important element of such a resolution is free access for inspectors throughout Iraq. This would have to mean that the Security Council must repeal the 1998 Iraq-UN agreement on special procedures for the inspection of the so-called Presidential Palace areas, unless Iraq itself declares that they will disregard the agreement. There is reason to stress that presidential palaces are not traditional palaces — these are large properties, large rural areas. These areas include several hundred buildings. The point is that no buildings or areas shall be granted immunity from inspection if we are to be certain of the issues related to Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. We can't have an inspection system with holes. The preliminary discussions in the Security Council have shown that there is a growing recognition in the Council of the need to strengthen the pressure on Iraq. Similarly, the autumn general debate in the Main Assembly has been marked by the fact that the world community will no longer find itself in the fact that Iraq is ignoring binding UN decisions. In other words, there is broad international agreement that the Security Council is actively committed to the full abolition of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction and means of delivery. There are now consultations between the five permanent members of the Council on the elements of a new resolution. It is absolutely essential that the five agree on a text. No draft resolution is currently on the table – which also tells us that the consultations are marked by the seriousness of the situation facing them. A main theme, where there is disagreement among the five permanent members, is whether and when military power may be used if Iraq continues to ignore the Security Council’s decisions. In particular, the United States and the United Kingdom have indicated the need for a rice behind the mirror and that a new decision in the Security Council must contain a clear and unambiguous warning of the use of power if the Security Council is not complied with. It is still too early to have a definite view of whether the five will be able to agree on an ultimatum against Iraq, which will once again form the basis of coercive measures if the requirements are not met. The Government has two main considerations for dealing with Iraq in the Security Council. Firstly, it is imperative to work towards achieving the objective of the abolition of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems without the use of military power. Therefore, the decisions of the Security Council must be designed to have the desired effect in Baghdad. In our view, there should be no doubt that non-compliance could have extremely serious consequences for the country. Secondly, any reaction to Iraq must be enshrined in international law. The Security Council's demands for Iraq are clear and precise. We attach great importance to the fact that this matter belongs in the UN Security Council, and are pleased that it is now being dealt with there. The consequences of military coercive measures are likely to be extremely serious for Iraq and its population. The consequences can also be significant for the region and for the cohesion of the broad coalition against international terrorism. This makes it all the more important that the Security Council stand together to maintain its legitimacy, credibility and authority. Unfortunately, the uncertainty associated with weapons of mass destruction is not limited to Iraq. We are aware that terrorist groups have tried to obtain both nuclear and chemical and biological weapons. Last year's terrorist attacks in the United States showed in a cruel way that ruthless terrorists are able to use any tool to achieve their goals. Weapons of mass destruction in the hands of such groups therefore give frightening perspectives. We can show a number of concrete and positive results in the fight against international terrorism. The training and training camps of the terrorist organisation Al Qaida have been destroyed. The Taliban regime, which put development back decades in Afghanistan, has been repressed. The reconstruction of the country is well under way. Although major challenges remain in Afghanistan, the basis for positive developments has now been laid. But the fight against international terrorism is not yet over. The terrible terrorist attacks in Bali a few days ago are a strong reminder of exactly this. Al Qaida's leadership is still on the loose, and parts of the network seem intact. Al Qaida has, until now, always operated with a long time horizon and with very different procedures. We must therefore continue to assume that they are able to plan and carry out comprehensive terrorist actions. The fight against international terrorism can only be won with a concerted effort under the direction of the UN Security Council. Military action must go hand in hand with political, diplomatic, legal and economic instruments. I am convinced that the international community is ready to continue its commitment to combating international terrorism. This concerns both aid for reconstruction in Afghanistan and military operations. Security and stability are fundamental prerequisites for success in rebuilding Afghan society and creating a better everyday life for the population of Afghanistan. A stable security situation is also essential for the civil regime, under the leadership of President Karzai, to be able to consolidate its position. It's in such a perspective that we need to see our participation in the military operations. Military measures are essential to ensure national security. Therefore, the funds for this purpose do not go at the expense of the resources we spend on humanitarian action and reconstruction, but also contribute to their support. Military operations — both the US-led military coalition and the ISAF — are necessary to support reconstruction and to provide effective assistance in Afghanistan. On this issue, we are fully in line with the UN Special Mission for Afghanistan, Lakhdar Brahimi. We have a long-term perspective on our commitment to reconstruction in Afghanistan. The needs and challenges will be great for a long time in the future. We are conscious of our responsibility and will therefore continue to have a high level of assistance. Nor can lasting safety be built without successful reconstruction. Through our chairmanship of the Afghanistan Support Group, we are working to ensure the most effective humanitarian aid to the Afghan population and to support the reconstruction work in a broad sense. The support group has proved to be a useful tool for donor co-ordination and for the coordination of UN efforts. The support group will have its annual meeting in Oslo in December. The annual meeting will draw up the framework for assistance in the future, thus confirming continued political and financial support for emergency aid and reconstruction in Afghanistan. President Karzai, following an invitation from the Government, will attend the meeting, reflecting the weight of the Afghan authorities in this work. In the Middle East, the situation is more difficult than in a very long time. Israel continues its hard-handed occupation and a policy with a one-sided focus on security. The Palestinian authorities, for their part, do not show sufficient willingness to fight suicide and other acts of terrorism. The situation that is unfolding is tragic for both the Palestinian and Israeli civilian populations. Over 600 Israelis and over 1,700 Palestinians have been killed in the last two years. Many thousands are mutilated. The everyday life of both Israelis and Palestinians is marked by anxiety, pessimism and a difficult economic situation. On the Palestinian side, almost all normal economic activity has stopped in recent months. Unfortunately, the parties show little ability and willingness to act in such a way that they can get out of the situation. The government is taking a strong distance from the persistent Israeli military attacks in densely populated Palestinian cities and refugee camps. Such actions can never provide Israel with long-term security. It can only be achieved through a political solution. In our contacts with the Israeli authorities, we have also underlined that such attacks are unacceptable and that they put new obstacles in the way of dialogue. We condemn the Palestinian suicide bombings. Such actions torpedo any prospect of compromise with Israel. It is a great responsibility on the part of the Palestinian leadership to stop these senseless acts of terrorism. Although most of the Palestinian security apparatus is gradually destroyed, it is our opinion that President Arafat can do more to counter terrorism. He must clearly and unequivocally condemn such actions and create a broad political front against all forms of terrorism and violence. It is therefore essential that the international community continues to put pressure on the parties to get out of the vicious circle of violence and terror. Everything has to be done to get a political process going. By 24 September at the latest, the UN Security Council called for a full stop in all acts of violence and immediate stop in all Israeli actions, including the headquarters of President Arafat. Norway was very central in the preparation of the text of Security Council Resolution 1435. All members of the Security Council voted in favour of the text of the resolution, with the exception of the United States that resigned. The challenge is also to have the Security Council’s directives implemented this time. In this work, the so-called Quartet, with the participation of the United Nations, the United States, the EU and Russia, plays a crucial role. The Quartet has recently adopted a outline of a peace plan that could lead to the establishment of a Palestinian State in 2005. At the same time, the Quartet promised to draw up a more detailed plan setting out the objectives and deadlines for action to be taken by the Parties. We have close contact with all the members of the Quartet, and it has our wholehearted support. As chairman of the donor country group AHLC, we also coordinate our work with the Quartet. At the same time, we maintain open and direct channels for all parties involved. The donor country group AHLC has a key role to play in improving the humanitarian and economic situation in the Palestinian region. According to the UN, two Palestinians are dependent on food. At the same time, child mortality and malnutrition are increasing. From before we know that more than half of the Palestinian population is without permanent work. We are now working to see the donor country group meet before the end of the year. We will also discuss our own assistance with the Palestinian authorities to find the right balance between humanitarian action and long-term development aid. A third important channel for foreign action is the international working group which assists the Palestinian authorities in their reform efforts. Norway coordinates the activities of the working group in the Palestinian region. The International Group was established after the Palestinian Authority adopted an ambitious reform programme in the summer. The decision is an important step in the right direction, as one of the lessons from the Oslo process is that international society did not place sufficient emphasis on democracy and human rights on the Palestinian side for a long time. The reform programme is in line with the wishes and requirements of the world community. The Israeli siege and raid of Arafat's headquarters at the end of September has delayed the ongoing reform efforts. However, the international community expects work to continue, and we now see that the Palestinians have taken action that shows the willingness to continue this work. It's positive. Although the situation is serious, there is still hope. It is widely accepted in the international community for the main elements of the future peace settlement. PLO/PA, i.e. Palestinian self-government authorities, has recognised the State of Israel. Israeli governments, including the present, have in principle accepted the establishment of a Palestinian state. The main challenge now, therefore, is to relaunch a political dialogue between the parties. We recognize that the prospect of getting this done in the short term is dark. However, it is important to remember that this process has lasted a long time and has been characterised by both progress and backwardness. We must therefore maintain the belief that a solution is possible, and continue our efforts to assist the parties in finding a solution. The challenges we are now facing in the issues that I have addressed require more than ever close international relations. The global coalition established after the terrible terrorist attacks last year is a clear expression of the will for joint action. It is now important that we build on this cohesion. Only through joint efforts will we succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e679	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement on current foreign policy issues be debated at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e694	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Health, has been withdrawn. Question 10, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Elvik to the Minister for Fisheries, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him. Question 17, by the representative Heidi Sørensen of the Minister for the Environment, has been withdrawn. Questions 16, 18 and 19, from the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and Hill-Marta Solberg respectively to the Minister for the Environment, are moved and answered before question 2, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e715	Questionnaire starts with question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e722	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘Ekokrim has fined the company Aluscan in Nesset municipality of Møre and Romsdal 2 million. kr for violation of the pollution laws. Since Aluscan started in 1989 and until today, can the Council of State found that the SFT has granted emission permits and followed up with controls that comply with Norwegian environmental legislation, and what measures should be taken to ensure a good working environment and to ensure its neighbours a pollution-free environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e731	Reducing emissions of hazardous substances to health and the environment is a high priority in the Government's environmental protection policy. Such industrial emissions have been greatly reduced over the last 10 to 15 years, but further reductions in emissions are necessary to achieve the ambitious targets set. Since 1989, Aluscan has recovered aluminium from remelting plants. In order to extract aluminium, the company is authorised to import aluminium-containing salt slag. This is classified as special waste, and imports require specific authorisation from State pollution control. In addition, strict limits are laid down for emissions to air and water under the pollution law and requirements for the treatment of special waste, etc. However, there have been serious violations of the permit, which was also the subject of the questioner. In the light of the company’s lack of control and reporting of emissions to air, the SFT reported the company in 2001. Among other things, forest deaths have been detected in the surrounding area due to illegal emissions to air from the holding. In addition, police investigation revealed illegal emissions of large quantities of oxide to fjords in the period 1997 to 2000 that went into a pipe immediately and that the company has deliberately kept hidden from State pollution control. Since emissions have been illegal, they cannot be reliably attached at this time. The SFT will work to get a full overview of this. Under the pollution law, the company itself is responsible for complying with the requirements of the authorities, knowing its own emissions and reporting annually to the environmental protection authorities, including any deviations from the permit. In line with legislation and practice, the SFT has carried out regular surveillance and control of Aluscan since its authorisation in 1989. Inspections were carried out in 1991, 1995 and 2002. Revisions, which are more extensive, have been carried out in 2000 and 2002. The infringements detected by the SFT have been closely followed up by the imposition of measures and two police reports. In addition, ecocrim investigations revealed illegal discharges of heavy metals and aluminium into water. This was information that was deliberately kept hidden from the SFT. In my opinion, the SFT has followed up the company as necessary through active control activities. As a result of the company's infringements, SFT announced at our stop in the permit for the import of special waste, which the company believes is essential for continued operation. However, this was deferred on condition that the company complied with SFT’s requirements for improved control of leachate, the clearance of intermediate waste and the requirements for landfilling. In order to verify the implementation of the requirements, the SFT carried out an unannounced inspection at the holding on 3 October of this year. This inspection showed that none of the requirements has been fully implemented. I am aware that the company was given a deadline yesterday to comment on SFT's draft inspection report. As an appropriate professional body, the SFT now assesses relevant actions towards the enterprise, including the measures necessary to ensure adequate environmental quality in the neighbourhood. This could be the withdrawal of the emission permit under the pollution law and the authorisation to import the aluminium salt slag. I cannot therefore prejudge SFT's assessment of this now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e748	I thank you for your answer. The question we all have to ask ourselves is, how could this happen at all? The then state councillor Thorbjørn Berntsen replied in this room in 1996 that everything was fine: the SFT is doing its job, the neighbors have no reason to fear anything, everything is fine. It was in the middle of the worst period of environmental crime. Then the state councils made good for what happened. The County Council and the SFT, which here also have central supervisory powers, but also the occupational health services and the municipal health services, must be critical when both the working environment and the environment for our neighbours are poor. According to neighbors, they have been told to keep the kids inside and buy air conditioning in hot days, when they have come to the municipal health service. Is this the relationship we're going to have in Norway in 2002?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e757	After all, the relations back to the 1990s that the representative Jacobsen took up were illegal. Ecocrim has investigated it, and the company has received large fines. What happened was that a pipe had been made that went straight into the spring, where illegal drugs were released, and the supervisory authorities had not discovered. In fact, crime is taking place here in society, including environmental crime, which is being tried and kept hidden. But when you became aware of it, it was reported, and it was then followed up. This enterprise is a cornerstone enterprise in the municipality with many hundreds of jobs. What's important now is that now you've used up your chances. If the company is to continue to import this aluminium-containing salt slag, continue the processes, as I said, there is only one thing to do, and that is to deal with the emission requirements imposed by the State's pollution regulators both in air and in water.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e764	I thank you for your answer. Can the Council of State assure us that from the very low level of community health services and up to the SFT, he will make sure that the supervisory authorities are also on the side of young people and are also on the side of the working environment in this matter? Then it is that in the state budget there is a proposal for a certain increase in the funds for cleaning up the forureina sediment. Can the Raudsand community expect the public to go in and clean up the Bergmäisteren depot and what's being dumped outside the Kaia in Raudsand? There may be a couple of hundred years' work in a couple of years when it only applies to cleaning up after what has happened. We're talking about an area where farming facilities are close. Right up where we produce food for Europe, we drain special waste from the same Europe. Can people in Nesset, Tingvoll, Sunndal and Halsa expect the Council of State once and for all to take the initiative to clean up this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e775	First, I want to make sure that all that State pollution control can now do in the future in relation to ensuring that you relate to the emission permits that have been granted should be done. This company will be closely followed, especially after the history they have had in the 1990s. In fact, it is also considered that they should be taken away from the import authorisation, which is very serious. This is about hundreds of jobs. Therefore, of course, we have hope of finding a solution that is good for the environment and also good for the community. But the pollution that has occurred has, among other things, destroyed the forest and contaminated the fjord. In relation to whether the State will now take responsibility for cleaning up this pollution, I have to say that we have a principle in the pollution law called the polluter pays principle. The one who's going to clean up after himself is the company. It is the company that has contaminated. The company has been illegally polluting and not dealing with the emissions permits. So we're going to look at this very carefully, and we're going to clean this up in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e793	This question, from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for the Environment, has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e799	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «In the Day Revy 5 October d.o.b. a report from the Finnmarkswiss showed that the damage caused to the vulnerable nature by land use by motorised vehicles was caused. The problem with a bar area vehicle is only in the take-off pit, and the development we have seen at Finnmarkswiss is spreading to other parts of the country, cf. letter of 24 April 2002 from the Nature Conservation Association to the Ministry of the Environment. What initiatives will the Council of State take to address this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e808	I agree that the development of bar area driving is alarming. Barrier driving is more harmful than winter driving because it sets tracks that in many cases are difficult to restore. The Motor Traffic Act, national regulation and the Ministry’s circular on motor traffic indicate that the practice of the legislation is to be more stringent for land use than for snow-covered land. With the exception of the run-off for commercial purposes permitted by law, municipalities shall practise the legislation strictly. In principle, therefore, the legislation and guidelines have taken account of the potential threat posed by off-road transport. In addition, in the case of Finnmark, a separate regulation on the use of motor vehicles is laid down and its purpose is to channel the run-off of traditional roadways. In the light of what has emerged in the media lately, I have asked the County of Finnmark for a report on the state's rendezvous. It is clear that many municipalities have a dispensation practice that goes far beyond the regulatory framework and guidelines. Four of Finnmark's 26 municipalities represent 88 pst. of the dispensations in the county. According to the report, the county takes the problems seriously and will do its utmost to reverse the negative trend, which I assume the municipalities will also follow up. We are closely following developments both in the field and in the follow-up of the population, and will consider further action if it proves necessary to achieve the desired results. In the spring of 2002, I stopped the planned liberalisation of the snowmobile code because I wanted to await the evaluation of the test of planned motor traffic management in eight municipalities. The test also applies to the legislation aimed at debarring and shall clarify whether the purpose of the Motor Travel Act can be better achieved by linking the practice more closely to local level decisions and planning processes under the Planning and Building Act. It is at least equally important that municipalities assess level and not just snowmobile driving. Land use is a form of land use which can have long-term consequences and which must therefore be subject to a specific plan assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e825	The problem of bare-field driving is two-fold. One is the legal drive, and the other is the illegal. In the case of legal driving, some of the problems are that it is difficult to obtain the necessary statistics with regard to the summary of the exemptions granted by municipalities. Its name is, among other things, in Section 7 of the Regulation: «the municipality shall give task over matters under Sections 5 and 6», and it has been interpreted as reporting only the number of exemptions. This should be specified. It should have been said explicitly how many routes, what areas and what time periods are involved, and how many trips are reported, and where sanctions are needed when the obligation to report is not met. For example, one might imagine that for a period of time the right to grant exemptions to the municipalities could be suspended. Would the Council of State agree to such an amendment of the regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e832	What I have notified in my reply to the representative is that I have asked the County Council in Finnmark to report on the development of bar area driving. I stress that in the case of bar area driving, there should be a strict exercise of the right of derogation for the municipalities. It has slipped into a number of municipalities, we have been documented. The people have now been asked to follow this very closely. And if you don't see another practice in municipalities in the years to come in the field of roadside driving, we will have to consider other measures. I then take the idea from the representative Vaggen Malvik to demand a more specific review of what you are doing in relation to business. But what's bad about bar area driving is that if you drive that type of vehicle in ants and some exposed areas, you can hurt the future. It's always setting tracks. And we don't want this in Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e839	The second problem is the illegal driving, namely all those who do not apply for a derogation because they have nevertheless intended for a water or a mole or a hunting grounds, where they would not be granted a derogation in any case. The problem then is that there is not enough money to run an effective enough supervision of this wild man driving. And in this way you can imagine a solution where the money that comes in at the front of illegal motor travel in the outland can go directly to the observation seats. Is this what the Council of State will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e844	First of all, I have to say that there are actually many applications also outside applications for business driving that are accepted. When a large number of applications are accepted in some places, and they are legal, there is a huge challenge associated with it. This should now be reviewed by the county councillors, and they should look at the practice through a dialogue with the municipalities. Well, let's try carrots first. It's often better than trying the whip. As far as illegal driving is concerned, there is no doubt that we have a challenge in terms of monitoring. We also need to use other agencies, for example. The people of state forest. We also need to use them as, for example. in Finnmark, join the Reinsident, and we must use the people of the State. All of these must be given the task that they must also follow the field trip. When it comes to connecting a special fee income or charge for illegal driving to this particular purpose, I have not heard the idea mentioned earlier. We do not have any practice of earmarking that type of fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e856	‘On 18 July 2002, an Icelandic trawler sank outside Ballstad in West Wagøy. There are considerable quantities of oil and frozen fish on board. On 22 August the SFT ordered the shipowner to raise the Hagarist by 15 October due to the the risk of pollution. The Ministry of the Environment amended the requirement to remove only oil by 15 October and to lift the Hagarist by 1 May 2003. Nothing has happened so far. The hazarist represents a significant pollution hazard in a vulnerable area. What will the Council of State do to eliminate the source of pollution as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e863	The Icelandic ship ‘Gudrun Gisladottir’ basic aid on 18 June 2002 at the entrance to the Nappstraumen in the municipality of West Vågøy in Lofoten. The morning after the ship sank on approx. 40 m deep. ‘Gudrun Gisladottir’ had during the accident both the frozen herring fillet, up to 800 tonnes, and the oil products on board. The greatest immediate risk of contamination from the ship is related to the oil. Acute oil spills will represent a significant threat to the environment for seabirds, nearby farms, vulnerable beach areas and outdoors. That is why it is important, for example: in view of the weather conditions in Lofoten, that the risk of oil pollution from the hagarist is eliminated as soon as possible. The fish load also presents a risk of contamination but is considered to constitute a less acute threat to the environment. The shipowner is responsible for the pollution hazard posed by the ship’s oil and cargo. The Ministry of the Environment instructed the shipping company, as referred to in the question, in its complaint of 20 September 2002 to clear the Hagarist for oil by yesterday, 15 October 2002. Furthermore, the deadline for lifting and removing the entire wreck was set at 1 May 2003. After the department took its decision, the shipping company has transferred the wreck to a salvage company. However, the shipowner remains responsible for the duties of the department. The salvage company has now presented plans to remove the oil along with the entire wreck in the fall. It is positive that they wish to remove the entire wreck, but these plans need to be better documented in order to allow State pollution control to assess whether the planned lifting operation is feasible in a short time and in an environmentally sound manner. State pollution control will ensure that both the planning and the implementation of the cancellation operation itself are closely monitored and evaluated. If it turns out that the company's plans are not feasible, it is important that no time is spent playing and that a state action to empty the oil on board is taken immediately. I have therefore asked the SFT to start the necessary preparations for such a state action in parallel with a careful follow-up of the recovery company's plan. The shipping company has now had three months to remove the wreck, without having done anything. The Ministry quickly decided on the complaint from the shipping company, and it is very important that the shipping company takes responsibility in such situations, follows up given decisions and cleans up afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e878	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Minister for the Environment is so committed to resolving this matter. There is no doubt that the company has speculated in leaving the boat. Because of the insurance regulations it is that the shipping company actually makes money to leave the boat instead of raising it. And at the change of ownership that has taken place, there is also an opportunity to further train the case. My question is, can the Council of State ensure that no time limits will be granted in addition to those already set in respect of the requirement to lift the ship?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e887	The government will not postpone the deadlines set, namely that yesterday the ship should be empty of oil. The ship shall be immediately emptied of oil. That shipowner now, through the salvage company, has laid on the table, is a plan to raise the entire ship by 800 tons of herring and oil. These plans need to be carefully reviewed by the SFT. It is not satisfied with the plans as they are currently available, but it is necessary to have a dialogue in the next few days. If no agreement is reached and this is implemented very quickly, the state will clear the ship for the oil, which is the acute pollution hazard. That is why I asked the SFT yesterday, in parallel with the dialogue they have with the company, to cancel the entire ship, which is of course the best, to plan for the state to clear it of oil. So if we don't agree with the shipping company about a lifting, that it doesn't meet the environmental and safety requirements we make, we'll have to clear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e892	I understand at the Council of State that there is considerable uncertainty about the plans that the new owner has outlined for lifting the wreck. It is good that the Council of State has taken action to ensure that the authorities take responsibility for the discharge of the ship for oil. My question is: Is it entirely irrelevant that the authorities can also take responsibility for cancelling the ship and then send the bill to the owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e897	The polluter pays is a principle that also applies to this area. It is the responsibility of the shipping company to empty the ship and have it lifted. We've ordered that. We have ordered them to clear it for oil by 15 October. That deadline has been exceeded by the shipping company, and that is why we are now starting to plan a state action. At the same time, the shipping company says they want to raise the ship. There's a deadline for next year. The reason we shared this deadline in our time was that the most important thing was to clear the wreck for the oil, which is the acute pollution hazard, and that it poses a not insignificant risk of raising the ship at this time of year. In order to get these plans started, we need to have good documentation and feel confident that this will be implemented and that it will be properly implemented. I had this case on my table for a few weeks. I decided that the ship would be emptied, and I decided that it would be lifted. It's actually a very offensive attitude to this type of shipshavar, also offensive to the practice that has been followed in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e904	We're now going back to the ordinary question order. Question 1 will be answered later in the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e912	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘In connection with the disposal of BV 202, a number of auxiliary corps, public offices and other Norwegian non-governmental organisations were offered gifts at a price of DKK 1000 per person. wagon. These have subsequently received a claim for a registration fee of NOK 8 359 per person. vehicle newer than 1973 model. For the buyers, this feels unfair in the light of the positive work they do. Could the Council of State grant exemptions from this view in relation to the efforts these vehicles will be able to make for the best of the community and the restrictions on the use of the vehicle?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e921	Following the decision of the Storting concerning the re-registration fee, a charge shall be paid in case of change of ownership, differentiated according to the type of vehicle and the age and weight of the vehicle. BV 202 is a belt car. Based on the age of the vehicles concerned and assuming that the total vehicle weight is between 3000 and 4000 kg, there will be a tax rate of NOK 8 359 for 2002. No exemption from the levy has been granted to public agencies or non-governmental organisations in the decision of the Grand Duchy on the levy. It is a practice for the vehicle to be re-registered on civil registration plates to be re-registered when it is sold by the Defence Agency. I have been informed by the Ministry of Defence that it is stated to potential buyers that the vehicles have to be registered and that the re-registration fee will then apply. On this basis, I do not find it necessary to assess the exemption from the fee obligation in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e932	I thank you for the answer, as for the undersigned and not least for those who have purchased BV 202 to make a job the best of the community, among others. by saving lives, is a great disappointment. These were wagons that the Defense no longer needed and they ordered the scrapping of approx. 2 000 BV 202. This seems, among other things, to be the case. the undersigned was the wrong use of the Community's resources. The scrap was stopped after some work, and BV 202 was put out for sale in three phases: gift sales, direct sales and part sales. In the course of gift sales, the following were assessed: auxiliary corps, public agencies and other Norwegian non-governmental organisations. In the case of gift sales, there is no law on resale, nor on economic income. There is a very limited area to run in, a low frequency of use, etc. This would mean that it would be possible to use the dispensations provided for in Section 4 of the Tax Decision, even if economic, social or humanitarian conditions were not the sole basis for exemption. The Council of State does not see that, for example: Red Cross is not comparable to other more business-related buyers and should therefore be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e939	Indeed, but precisely the representative mentioned in the paragraph emphasises that there is no practice of exempting the re-registration fee from the sale or gift sale to non-governmental organisations. That's what Stortinget's got himself in hand. I follow the rule of exception that the Storting itself has adopted, and I am committed to following a clear practice in this area. I thank you for the statement on how the gift sale came about, but this is about the re-registration fee and is another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e946	Section 4 deals with the fact that this is not only what is going on, but it must be possible to think about these things. In the past, belt wagons were referred to as motor tools and therefore there was no charge. These are special vehicles. They are sealed to a maximum speed of 40 km/h and there is a limited use of them. That is why I want to continue working on this matter, so that these wagons come under a different paragraph and in this way they will be exempted from the fee. As it has now become, this is revenue for the State rather than expenditure related to scrapping. I also think that should be counted in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e953	Any re-registration is the income of the country. It has been decided by the Storting. It is the representative of Bredvold himself who is responsible for this. It is possible to work for new paragraphs. I will be humble for any decision to raise a more general exemption, but as long as the provision is as limited as it is, and the representative himself has referred to it, it is important that the administration follows a clear practice. I perceive that my answer is in line with the practice that has been followed so far also in similar cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e965	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Justice: ‘Entrepreneurs throughout the country who have asylum recipients located in the vicinity of their establishments are rounded up by asylum seekers. Folkestad Mat i Våler in Østfold experienced that the thefts exploded after the asylum recipients at Kasper and Nordbybråten were established. Despite their own costly measures, the hook on the door for many traders has disappeared significantly. What will the Council of State do to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e974	First of all, I want to establish that criminal activity like the one that hits Folkestad Food in Våler is serious and unacceptable no matter who commits it. Crime in relation to asylum recipients and criminal asylum seekers is something both I and Minister Solberg are and have been involved in for a long time. Since the beginning of the year, both the Ministry of Justice/Police Directorate and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs/Foreign Affairs have been working on various measures. This work is important because asylum seekers are persons who have applied for a place of refuge and thus asked to become part of the Norwegian community with its rights and obligations. The measures can be divided into three main pillars: increased cooperation between the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs in the context of new transit arrangements/establishment of reception and crime prevention measures in the context of the strengthening of cooperation between the operator and the local police to streamline the procedure on criminal asylum seekers; On behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and in close cooperation with the Directorate of Police, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs has drawn up a proposal for a new regime for the reception of transit. The background is that asylum-related matters should be dealt with as quickly as possible and with a differentiation of asylum-seekers according to whether the applications are considered unfounded or not. One of the key prerequisites for a new transit reception system has been the security and security of the local population around the transit recipients. In the context of plans for the establishment of a so-called waiting transit, i.e. for persons with suspected unfounded applications pending decisions and the implementation of decisions, the Police Directorate, in cooperation with the Agder police district, has provided an impact assessment. It is agreed that safety within the camp and the surrounding environment is essential for such establishment and that the operator shall ensure reception, including access and exit control, by means of his own guards. Cooperation between the operator and the local police is essential to combat crime in relation to asylum recipients and the establishment of new receptions. The Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs have therefore undertaken a joint effort to ensure this cooperation. I can mention here that there is ongoing contact between the Police Directorate, the Eastfold Police District and the Foreign Affairs Directorate to combat the problems of crime around the receptions in Våler, as the representative addresses. The third measure I would like to mention is the improvement of the effectiveness and priority of the procedure on criminal asylum seekers. On the initiative of the Police Directorate, a revision and re-publishing of a police and Foreign Affairs Directorate’s handbook on these matters is in place and is expected to be completed by the end of the year. The main focus of the revision is the recognition of the need for rapid and effective treatment with subsequent emigration in criminal asylum seekers cases. Let me also add that the institution of asylum should be a place of refuge for those in need of protection. There must be no protection for either asylum tourism or the minority who commit the crime raised by the representative Hedstrøm in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e999	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that we work on a broad basis, and on a cross-ministerial basis, to find solutions to these problems. As I understand it, much is done to control the inside of the asylum recipients and the entrance and exit of the receptions. You are now working with your own mobile guard patrol that has been successful in Lier, and it is now also being established for Østfold. That's the one. I do feel that we might have to do something more to help the entrepreneurs, who, after all, are going to live on their own business, and the local people, who are also being subjected to a lot of profit-criminalism. This often explodes after reception is established. We are now in a budget time. Could one way forward be to strengthen local police districts with new resources so that they can put this into an overall assessment of all crime, in order to have a better benefit/cost effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1006	In general, the police have to fight every crime. It is also the case that the police, among others. Following an agreement with the Progress Party in the revised national budget, there is a dedicated effort in border areas, and Våler is such a part of the country where, in addition to what has been taken up by the representative, it wants to catch up with people on their way into the country. Because we know that they have identity papers, while when they get to the place where they're registered, most of them almost don't have papers. So it's a more efficient effort. I have discussed myself with the local people and with the police at one of the major receptions here in the East, and found that the vast majority of those in the receptions are law-abiding and proper, but that there is a minority acting in the way that the representative Hedstrom confirms. Then the whole point of what has been drawn up here is that the foreign authorities, those who run the receptions, and the police, know each other so well and can react so precisely that it is shut down, that the proceedings are then effective, and that those who are not supposed to be here are sent out immediately. That's the best security we can give the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1013	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I fully agree with the Council of State that there is a small, hard core profit criminals and repeaters who account for a large percentage of criminal acts. I would then vent this with the Council of State: if these persons are apprehended several times, could it be an idea to place them in so-called closed transit receptions until they are given their punishment in Norway, or zone in the country of origin, in the countries with which we have extradition agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1018	If you're being apprehended in such a way that crime is serious, then we have the custody institution in this country. I don't want to go into other sides of it. My goal is to make it clear that if you turn this down, it also has a clear preventative effect. Then you know that you don't get off so easily. So I believe in the width of the measures. We know that this is mostly about groups of people with backgrounds in the former Soviet Union, and then it's also about the police cooperation we have around the Baltic Sea. We also have police cooperation with Russia, and this is about the fact that we are effective. I think some of the problems have been that the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the police have not cooperated enough, because they have faced new challenges. It's not always that a builder is used to a challenge like this. But they're taking the challenge in the police, they're also taking it in the foreign agencies, and that's what I'm now expecting results from. I want to assure the representative that I am going to follow in the picture, for this stream of hard-boiled criminals will not destroy those who need a port of refuge in Norway, or for those who are feeding legitimately and being brought here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1032	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘From couples where the husband has been a cancer patient and who want to use previously extracted and frozen eggs in order to be a parent, I have been told that hospitals no longer reset these. It is said that the Storting has not taken a decision as to whether such an experiment should be part of a previous experiment or a new one. Will the Council of State ensure that there is clarity in the matter, so that couples with already frozen eggs will know how to behave?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1041	In examining the revised national budget, the Stortinget has re-established a system to cover the medical costs of public outpatient and assisted fertilisation medicinal products. The scheme provides a cost-coverage for up to three trials and requires the patient to pay a one-off instalment of NOK 18000. The amount is derived from the fact that the patient himself has to cover the costs of medicinal products of up to NOK 15 000 and NOK 3000 for public outpatient treatment. Expenditure on medicinal products in excess of DKK 15 000 is covered in full through the provision of social security contributions. The scheme has been applied retroactively from 1 January 2002. There have been several questions in the practice of the new self-payment scheme. The Ministry is therefore in the process of clarifying these issues in a letter to its hospitals and regional health businesses. One of the issues has been what is meant by ‘a trial’. I am prepared to assume that an experiment is defined as a technically completed treatment with the collection and restocking of eggs in the woman's womb. At the time of egg collection, several eggs could be fertilised and some could be frozen until later use. In my view, the subsequent use of such frozen eggs shall be to be considered as part of a technically completed treatment, in other words as part of the ‘test’ as defined in the self-payment scheme. After that, the introduction of frozen eggs will not be considered as a new test. Couples who, for medical reasons, need to benefit from frozen eggs would then be able to benefit from the system of reduced self-payment for assisted fertilisation. This could also lead to the destruction of fewer fertilised eggs, which is an important objective. I would therefore like to clarify this to the country's hospital in the letter I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1052	I thank the Minister for the positive answer. That's exactly how I thought it was. However, it is obvious that some hospitals are not informed about how this should be done, as several couples who have contacted me have given feedback that they say no, and that one must start with a self-payment in relation to the system that now applies. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will now take the initiative to inform the hospitals that this is to be counted as a single attempt, with the self-payments that apply. Then I am very satisfied with the answer and don't need time for any follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1059	Then the Council of State is also very satisfied and does not need time for any additional response.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1064	That was a straightforward clarification of question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1071	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘Psychic Health Protection Eastfold Health Companies have notified the County of Eastfold that it will not continue the economic cooperation with the county's child protection system based on the state funds for mental health protection. This economic cooperation is anchored in St.meld. No 25 for 1996-1997 and in the approved County Council plans to strengthen mental health protection. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the health-care provider bases these guidance documents on its work in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1080	St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97, Transparency and fullness, gave an overall description and assessment of the state of the services offered in the field of mental health protection. The Communication highlighted in particular the importance of cooperation between child and youth psychiatry and County Child Protection. There has been a significant lack of such cooperation between these two services, and the Ministry has stated in its communication that action to strengthen cooperation between the two services should be given priority. The two services address different needs and are based on child protection legislation and healthcare legislation, respectively. Nevertheless, there are many interfaces between services, and for many children and young people, it is essential that these two services cooperate and are coordinated in the provision provided to individuals. Outpatient clinics in the field of mental health protection for children and young people need to strengthen cooperation with, inter alia: the protection of children and part of the growth of capacity must be achieved through the provision of consultation and guidance to cooperative services. The cancellation message has also been followed up by St.prp. No 63 for 1997-98, on the escalation plan for mental health, and with a circular to the municipalities and the specialist healthcare service, where the signs of strengthening cooperation between child protection and child and youth psychiatry are clear. These documents do not specify cooperation models or relate financing to specific solutions. The governance message to municipalities and to the current regional health companies is also clear, and I assume that regional health companies are following up on this. County plans are provided for as basic documents in the work of enterprises to strengthen this part of health care. The plans are not static but need to be adjusted in line with the development of mental health protection. Eastfold County has addressed the question of the economic cooperation between these two services with the Ministry. The Ministry therefore has in a letter to Eastfold County and Health East provided that the necessary measures are followed up by both parties for the clients concerned in this case. Health East has explained to the Ministry that cooperation between child and youth psychiatry and child protection under this Decision has not been concluded but that cooperation must be at the professional level and not through the transfer of financial resources. I assume that the necessary cooperation between child and youth psychiatry and child protection, such as: are described in these key health policy governance documents, followed up in an appropriate manner and in relation to the patients concerned as the central focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1096	Does the answer mean that the health care provider should provide only professional guidance and that none of the means available in the psychiatry escalation plan should be used? This was the basis for the cooperation between the Child Welfare Service and the Mental Health Protection Service as long as the county council was jointly responsible. It goes without saying that such a large amount of money as is going to fall out here-- 3.4 million. The plans of these means of escalation will have an impact on the ability of child protection to deal with the clients involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1101	The answer is that I assume that the clear leaderships contained in the management documents are followed up by the regional health company. These include: a pre-requisite that part of the capacity growth in outpatient mental health services for children and young people is to be achieved by providing consultation and guidance for collaborative services. However, there is no specific national leadership on health care enterprises on specific cooperation models or that they are to transfer money from their budgets to the protection of children. Nor will I demand it in this context, because it is not enshrined in these governance documents. If, on the other hand, the entity wanted to do that, then there is nothing to prevent it from being able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1108	I hear what the Council of State says and thinks it is a pity that health care companies do not follow up at least on the cooperation that has been initiated, which involves what is today to be called an economic transfer, since the state has assumed responsibility for the specialist services. I understand the issue of – within a new governance model – the issue of providing clear leadership for this. But I had hoped that it could be given what we call a political signal that at least the measures being taken should not be interrupted – nor the parts of it that will mean sharing on the means given for stepping up the psychiatry effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1115	The political signal that is anchored in the documents I mentioned is clear and unambiguous: it is to be cooperated, and closer cooperation is to be achieved. But it's not a requirement to use funds from the psychiatry plan on child protection. That is the opportunity and that freedom, but that is not a requirement. I would remind you that these are earmarked funds granted by the Storting to psychiatry. That means that the 3.4 million. Dr as the representative Svein Roald Hansen referred to, of course will be used for children and young people in Eastfold with mental disorders. I think that must be crucial in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1126	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Nearly every other medical office in Fredrikstad takes between 35 and 50 kroner for a prescription which shall be free of charge. A couple of doctors consistently refuse to print medications on a regular basis, without first consulting them. Some also take double proportions if the patient takes up more problems during a consultation. Several doctors say that the code is unclear. What will the Council of State do to ensure that doctors follow the guidelines and patients do not pay more than they should?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1135	The doctors’ tariff system is the result of the annual negotiations between the State and the Municipal Councils’ Central Association on the one hand and the Medical Association on the other. The results of the negotiations shall be binding on the individual doctor who is a member of the Medical Association. It is also clear from the individual fixed agreements between the municipalities and the doctors that this standard tariff should be followed. Both the Medical Association and the local authorities have a separate responsibility as contracting parties to ensure that the doctors deal with this. For practical reasons, and at the request of the Medical Association, it is social security and not the patient who pays for what is called ‘simple patient contact, request, letter or telephone advice’. When telephone consultation in some cases results in the doctor issuing a prescription to the patient, this is covered by the compensation for the contact itself, in the same way as in a regular consultation. When the patient later picks up the completed prescription from the doctor’s office, this release does not involve any work to be specifically demonstrated. This has now been very clearly clarified in the tariff for several years and is well known among the doctors. But even though I think there has been a clear improvement in compliance with the provision, there are still some doctors who may still have difficulty rehabilitating an old and incorporated practice in this area. It is equally clear that the patient cannot be called upon to pay more than one proportion for the same consultation, regardless of the number or extent of problems raised. I think this, as well as shown by the question, is not a very widespread practice. On the other hand, it may happen once again that the patient raises so many questions during the consultation, without mentioning them when ordering the hour, that the doctor, for the sake of waiting patients, finds it necessary to propose a new hour to get through everything. But normally I would think that the doctor would stretch far to provide the best possible help there and then. The social security scheme manages the reimbursement system and makes significant efforts to control doctors’ reimbursement bills. It does not directly interfere with what doctors require in proportion to patients. However, the budget has more recently entered into this. The County Street Office in Eastfold has been at the head here. To the extent that illegal excesses are entered on the card of receipt and are therefore included in the basis of a free card, this is directly linked to the reimbursement schemes of social security funds. When the settlement office discovers such illegal use of tariffs, it is notified to the doctor with a copy to the municipality, and the doctor is informed that the continuation of the use of tariffs may have an impact on his or her agreement with the social security office. The fare system may be complicated in some areas. But both in the case of the so-called telephone prescriptions and in the case where the patient addresses several issues during the same consultation, I think the legislation is clear enough. I would also like to mention that in the course of the year's negotiations we were given a regulation of administrative fees and the payment for various consumables, in order to avoid the patient being confronted with clearly unfair, and in some cases illegal, prices. However, with regard to the renewal of the prescription, it must be stressed that it is up to the professional judgement of the doctor whether or not he considers it necessary to consult. That may be well justified, and it is only the doctor himself who can decide that question. With the busy everyday life of most doctors, I think the few have an interest in calling the patient to a consultation that is really unnecessary. In view of the attention that the parties to the agreement have focused on these issues, the increased efforts of the social security system and the increased consumer power of the patient through the fixed medical system, where, if you are dissatisfied, you can actually change your doctor, I am optimistic about the possibilities of achieving the greatest degree of medical fitness in dealing with the excesses. For its part, the Ministry will follow up on this, among other things. in contact with the parties to the tariff negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1150	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It works for me, even though the council says he'll follow this up, that you're a little defensive about this happening to some things that are quite unacceptable. For the Workers' Party, it is at least very important that we take care of the weak party, and the weak party here is the patient. It is not that any patient can take a discussion with his doctor about the fare system. Of course, it's too complicated. Now it's like this that's revealed in Fredrikstad, only applies to a municipality. Nevertheless, this means quite a lot of money for patients. Especially bad is it for the chroniclers, who are major users of medical services and who may seek medical advice many times with the same questions. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State believe that it is likely that this problem that has emerged in Fredrikstad, which is large, applies to the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1159	It emerged from my first response that my assessment is that with such clear and clear legislation as I believe we have, and with the knowledge of the legislation that is present with the parties, this should not be a major problem. But what has been revealed in Fredrikstad, and which the County Street Office in Østfold has gone heavily into, suggests that both the social security centre and the department as a party to the tariff negotiations should have an alert look in the follow-up to this. That's what we want. The consideration of the weak party, to which the representative eye pointed, is of course very important here, but it is also important that there should be a proper practice of a regulatory framework involving quite large resources of the common resources of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1166	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's positive that the Council of State is now saying that you want to go a little bit closer to this. In fact, even though Østfold has been one of the leading states in the country, even though those who have taken random checks to prevent compliance with the contract, there have been quite a number of errors within the municipality of Fredrikstad that the Fredrikstad press has now taken on board. Now the county director says they want to check the commercial cards. If it concerns everyone, I don't know. But at least that means they're going a step further, and the random checks they did were not good enough. As far as the fixed medical system is concerned, I am a member of it. I believe that we should not have to change our firmness even if the doctor operates an old and incorporated practice, and that we cannot accept that this happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1177	I believe the representative Eye and I fully agree that a practice contrary to the tariff on which the parties and the individual doctor are both morally and legally obliged is unacceptable and must be tackled to the extent that they are able to reveal it. This is the example of Eastfold. And as I said, we will continue to deal with the parties in the tariff negotiations, and we will support the increased focus that the social security budget has on this. I would also like to take up with the Rikstrygdeverket whether the experience of Østfold suggests that the Rikstrygdeverket should reconsider its control strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1188	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Psychiatric Hospital Department on Fosen has been closed with effect from 1 October. The decision has been taken by the Director of the Health Business without the possibility for elected representatives of users to give their opinion, as the Stortinget has decided. The centre may indicate extremely high level of relative and patient satisfaction and very reasonable operation. Health managers at Fosen believe it will now be a much worse offer to a large group of patients. Can this closure decision be considered valid?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1197	The representative of Lund questions whether the decision taken in Health Mid-Norway on Åfjord housing and treatment centres is valid. I perceive that the issue relates in particular to whether the regional health business has formal competence to make these kinds of decisions. I'll answer that. Often, formalities and realities are linked. I will therefore also comment on the content of the matter. Åfjord housing and treatment centre is an institution owned by Åfjord Municipality, not by the health company. Åfjord Bo- and treatment centre is previously operated under an operating agreement with the South-Trøndelag County Municipality, an agreement that the health company has acquired. The company has chosen not to renew the agreement, and the patients for whom the specialist healthcare service is responsible have been offered an offer at other treatment units. As far as the issue of validity is concerned, I recall that the Health Business Act states that matters of importance are to be submitted to the Ministry. This is a clear indication that the main lines of health policy remain under political control. This does not necessarily mean that many individual items need to be added to the department. Ideally, ministerial governance should take place through the drawing up of the broad lines in planning decisions and the obligation on undertakings to take the implementing measures within those frameworks. This is the setup that is followed in the psychiatry area. Here, from the late 1990s, a system of spatial plans for the escalation of psychiatry was established, which was also subject to ministerial approval. Following the hospital reform, it is open to regional health companies to assess whether new cross-border solutions can improve the implementation of the escalation plan, but the approved county plans are still the starting point. The South-Trundelage Plan was approved by letters from the Ministry of 10 May 2001 and 24 September 2001 respectively. As regards the solution for the district psychiatric offer for the Fosen area, the letters of approval and the governance document of Health Mid-Norway for 2002 provide for a supplementary assessment which also includes an alternative based on stronger cooperation with the Nord-Trøndelag. Health Mid-Norway has indicated that this issue will be addressed in 2003. When that basis is available, it will be necessary to assess whether the decision in question falls within the decision-making powers conferred on the regional health undertaking or whether there are circumstances in the case which require a final decision to be taken by the ministry. In this assessment, it will be important how the solution in question relates to the approved psychiatry plan. It is crucial for me that the lasting solution to which the Fosen region is addressed meets the needs of the population for treatment and follow-up in a good way. This is my political responsibility. So the setup that's now going on is temporary. For me, it is essential that during this transitional period treatment and follow-up of the patients concerned be given in a proper manner. If that happens, I do not think that there is any reason to claim that the arrangements followed during the transitional period should be in any way invalid. I have been confirmed by Health Mid-Norway that this is the case, but the department will make sure that this condition is met by asking the County Doctor in South-Trøndelag to investigate the matter in more detail. [[The President clubs.]] Can I be allowed to quit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1214	The Council of State may conclude, but the President recalls the provision of the Rules of Procedure that the answers should be kept within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1217	Then I'll end with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1222	My concern is not whether the department is asked or not, but that the users and the local elected representatives have not been asked, as the Stortinget has stressed, and as the Government when the government took over promised during the wholesale treatment. In addition, we lose a very good offer on Fosen. The health professionals see that the offer to be a substitute, and what the council says is temporary, is worse, and it's probably not going to be used by the clients that someone here is talking about. In addition, it's a cheap offer. The possible temporary closure will lead to a loss of competence, and it will also be more difficult to rebuild it. The director of the health business skipped over the users, the local people and the employees. They received no information about what happened, they received an oral message six weeks before closing. I think it's dramatic if that's how the council says this is ok. This is not a case that is consistent with what Stortinget has said and that the Ministry has promised in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1229	Let me first say that I fully share Mr Lund's focus on this question: Are patients in this region being satisfied with a treatment offer that is adequate during the transitional period? I have received insurance from Health Mid-Norway that this is the case. But in order to further assess it, I would therefore ask the county doctor, who is the supervisory authority, to assess it. So I haven't finished answering that question. As far as the question of procedure is concerned, I was primarily involved in the anchoring of the stately psychiatry plans, and in the decision-making system that applies to businesses. But I want to say that with regard to the design of the permanent offer for this region, it is my opinion that there is active dialogue and participation with all parties, as the representative Lund points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1236	I'm worried that what the Council of State is now saying, it's going to be checked whether the offer is going to be equally good, not done before the closure happened, because this is dramatic. And as I said, professionals will disappear. But this case is also of a principle nature. How far can the administration of a health enterprise go in terms of making offers? I think it is well described in connection with matters that Stortinget has been dealing with, and what has been said in the setting: users should be involved, and local elected representatives should at least be allowed to give their signals. It has not been done in this case. If the case passes, we might experience that Røros Hospital can be closed without the authorities we're talking about being told their opinion. The procedures described in the documents I mention are about how to define a plan and how to change it. This is a change in a plan that was under work, but was temporarily approved by the ministry. [[The President clubs.]] Can an adopted plan be amended without completing what has been specified by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1245	This is not a decision to amend the plan. There is a follow-up of the leadership department to assess alternative solutions for a region. This is evident from the letters I have referred to. Nor is it the case that this is the closure of a hospital or hospital department. This is a unit that I know doesn't have treatment skills in the form of psychiatrists, psychologists, etc., so there's a unit at a relatively low professional level we're talking about. In what I have said, it is also true that in the coming process health centre Norway must be sure that the measures decided on have been implemented in a good dialogue and with the help of all those involved. In this it is clear that I do not think that the process up to the decision that has been made on a temporary basis has been adequate in relation to the requirements that I am expressing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1255	‘Research shows that one in ten are victims of sexual assault. At Modum Bad in Vikersund, there are accommodation facilities for the victims, but the waiting list is very long. Because of this, many incestants are unsolicited. What work is being done by the Ministry for Safe Treatment for Incestants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1262	Outpatients with post-traumatic disorders receive treatment in the field of mental health protection for children, young people and adults. On the part of the State, there is a commitment to empowerment both in the context of sexual abuse and in relation to trauma victims. In addition, the Government of the State budget for 2003 has proposed to increase the grant to Modum Bad by 6.8 million. kr. It's a real increase of 4 million. kr, such as shall strengthen the treatment offer for victims of abuse at Modum Bad. As part of the mental health escalation plan, during the period 2000-2002, the Ministry has made special efforts through the project ‘Supporting sexually abused children’ to improve the provision of investigation, diagnosis, treatment and support to this group and its relatives. It shall take place through the development of competence in the action apparatus in all health regions. Children exposed to incest are included in this project. Actions and performance targets for the project period have been as follows: Each health region shall have an environment/network competent in relation to sexual abuse of children, and the environment shall provide advice and guidance as well as education for educational institutions and the relevant professional environment.Each region shall strengthen the provision of services in the fields of child protection, paediatric medicine and child and youth psychiatry for the study and treatment of children exposed to sexual abuse, and recommendations for the establishment of an adequate offer for the future shall be made. The project is continued from 1 January 2003 in the framework of another project, which also started in 2000, Health Services to Mentally Traumatised. Both adults and children who have been incested will be included in the trauma project. The aim is to enhance extensive competences at local and regional level in the field of, inter alia, the detection of: sexual abuse, including incest and treatment services in primary health services as well as specialist services. A survey carried out in the framework of the trauma project in 2001 showed that about all psychiatric hospitals and outpatient clinics had victims of sexual abuse for treatment. It will therefore be an objective within the trauma project to increase the availability and competence of mental health protection for victims of sexual abuse, including incest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1286	We know that there is still a fact that there are many people who do not have a treatment offer, especially an offer of hospitalisation. Now there are individuals who have come on the job, including incestuals who themselves want to establish treatment services. How is the Council of State doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1293	The responsibility for providing such services for this group lies clearly with the extension of health legislation and regional health businesses. As regards the way in which they provide these services, health establishments have a significant freedom to determine within the limits of professional and economic soundness. The contingency plan for mental health provides opportunities for expanding the offer and should include the development of the offer, not least for children and young people with mental health problems. It will enable them both to cooperate with the private sector and to expand their own offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1298	Now my concern is not only in treatment places, but also in the competence in this field. What is done by the Ministry to increase its competence in this particular area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1305	In my first answer, I stated that we have been investing in the current year and in the previous two years on a project that has just been aimed at building skills in the intervention apparatus in all health regions. This work is continued in the trauma project that I referred to. I therefore fully agree with the representative of Hofstad that increased competence in general health care and psychiatry, which is responsible for this, should continue to be ensured through this kind of special measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1331	These questions have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1345	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1352	‘Many travellers are dissatisfied with the offer on the Nordlandsbanen. There are a number of relationships involved. One of these is a lack of capacity, which leads, among other things, to: students do not have space when travelling on weekends. Another is closed stations, leading to passengers waiting outside in all kinds of weather. A third aspect, which both travellers and employees believe to be critical, is the new Agenda trains, which are not functional. What does the Council of State do to improve the Northern Railway for the Travelers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1359	The government proposes to increase the purchase of passenger transport services from the NSB by 88 million next year in the State budget. kr – an increase of 6,8 pst. - to $1,386 million. kr. This level of purchase will provide the basis for good and forward-looking passenger train services across the country – where we have rail – in the years to come. In the proposal for a framework agreement on the purchase by the State of passenger transport services from the NSB for 2003-2006 submitted in St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003, it has been assumed that the Nordlandsbahn is operated by Agenda trains on all day-train departures both on sub-distances and on continuous trains. Night trains are driven by locomotive and wagons on the Trondheim-Bodø route. The main market on the Nordlandsbahn outside the summer season is partial and en route. With effect from 15 December 2002, the offer of trains in this market will be strengthened with increased frequency and shorter travel times. The feedback from customers regarding the Agenda trains has been that they are very pleased with the new trains on short trips, but that on longer trips there is no satisfactory sitting comfort. In order to improve the situation, NSB has implemented a number of measures. A section of the Agenda Trainsets has already been converted to provide a better distance between the chairs and more luggage space. In one train set, chairs of the same type as in the Signature trains will be tested. This train set will be operated on, for example: Nordlandsbanen from week 46. Customer feedback will determine whether this is to be done in several trains. It is also working to provide an extended service to customers travelling on these trains on the Nordlandsbahn. The NSB has too little capacity on the long-distance trains on some departures Friday and Sunday. During the rest of the week there is virtually no capacity available on these trains. If capacity is to be increased on weekends, it will also provide overcapacity for the rest of the week. It will therefore be very expensive to buy several trains that are only used on weekends. When the capacity is too small, it is not only students who experience that there is a reduction in the supply. No customers are rejected until the train is full, whether they are students or not, but you will not be able to get the highest discounts on high-coated take-offs. In terms of station opening hours, these are relatively good. However, it is a wish that all the waiting rooms are open when north-going night and coming from Trondheim. I am aware that the NSB has joined the Railway Agency to look at possible solutions to improve the offer to customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1374	The President reminds us that the answers should normally be maintained within 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1377	It was a thorough answer, and I am glad that the Council of State responded as fully as she did. But I have an extra question or two. The first thing goes on with students. Because we get a lot of enquiries from students who actually don't get home on weekends, because they don't have a car or anything like that. Is it not possible to imagine that you can continue working on getting a capacity increase on Fridays and Sundays? I think it is unsustainable that some young people who travel, for example. from Trondheim, among others because they are to participate in different things in their community during the weekend, they must experience that they do not have the chance to return at their request. Is it not possible that the Council of State can both continue to work on this and see if you can't hook an extra carriage when it's weekend, so that more students can travel by train?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1386	I think it's positive that students want to travel collectively. I would first of all like to say that. The representative here is a challenge that the NSB is aware of. As I pointed out in my answer instead, the NSB is busy trying to get further relative to being able to solve it, whether it's students or others who are traveling. I am concerned that from our side we should facilitate that it is possible to travel collectively for students. What we also need to look at is what distances this need is. I'm going to think that it's not necessarily just the Trondheim–Bodø route, but that it's the whole route. There is a possibility that you have chosen this type of train and that you have more frequent departures that will improve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1393	One last question, and it goes on with the railway stations. I fully understand that the NSB is rationalizing, selling tickets on the train, and making this as reasonable and effective as possible. But there's one thing I don't understand, and it's that we who live along this line, don't get in at a railway station in the middle of the black night and could be told that the train is two hours late, and that it shouldn't be possible to put a dime on a coffee machine and take a cup of coffee while waiting for the two hours the train is delayed. In several places you stay out on the platform. I have sailed and waited for the train between hours. 3 and 5 in the snowmobile, without knowing when the train is coming. When you have a railway with railway stations, I think you have to work to ensure that they are at least open so you can get in, and that there is a ‘pling’ or something like that where you are informed that the train today is two hours late. Does the Council of State agree that you should work after that trail?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1400	I would say that I very much agree with that. I know that the NSB is in contact with the Railway Agency to see if there are possible solutions to this. It is clear that it is never nice to have to wait for two hours – it is day or night – and perhaps especially not at night. This is clearly a challenge for both the NSB and the Railway Agency, and it is working to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1411	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Gjøvik railway is important for passenger transport in and out of Oslo from the north, the southern part of the track also for freight transport to Bergen. In the past, there were double tracks throughout the route from Oslo S to Grefsen. A distance of 300 to 400 metres has been quietly converted into single tracks. Now work has begun to build lids and dwellings over parts of the distance. It will create new difficulties for the further development of the Gjøvik track. How does this harmonize with the government’s stated commitment to public transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1420	In connection with the construction of the Gardermoban, it was not possible to keep the double track on Gjøvikbanen all the way to Oslo Central Station. The solution where 300 to 400 metres of one railway track on Gjøvikbanen was removed was therefore chosen at the end of the 1990s based on an overall capacity assessment. In the case of the overpassing cap, it is so high above the railway track that it will not interfere with the train running. Moreover, I can mention that the Gjøvik Railway is one of the two train sections proposed to be tendered in 2004. The Ministry of Transport expects that competition on the road route will provide a more cost-effective and better train offer for the public funds currently available for the state purchase of passenger services by train from NSB AS on Gjøvikbanen. So to underline it quite clearly, we are engaged in public transport, and we are engaged in public transport solutions on this route in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1431	I thank you for the answer, and I allow myself to make some additional comments. In this case, with the construction of a cover over the railway, correctly the lid does not take any place, but arrows are put down so that it is not possible to make two tracks there. That's that side of it. That tenders solve some problems here, we may disagree, but the point is that Gjøvikbanen has been hungry for a long time. It's blown up in the rush. It passes 60 trains there within 24 hours. What has been mentioned shows that there has been no investment on this track. There will be a new T-banning with a new station at Storo, and there is also no consideration for the Gjøvik track to the extent that it should have been done. We know that many new dwellings are built on Grefsen, and that there are also many jobs in this area. My question is then: does the Minister agree that we risk that the single-track solution will lead to future priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1440	We are committed to finding good, sustainable solutions when we facilitate infrastructure investment, including in the case of the railways. That is what was done when Gardermoen was built. I would like to make it clear that it is not a double-track to Gjøvik. The Gjøvik track doesn't have double tracks all the way. This is a single-track railway, and we have to take that into account. Today it goes about. 50 trains a day there, and there's room for a further increase on that track. The traffic that goes here is what the representative refers to, greater than that that goes to Gjøvik. There's also other traffic going on here. We depend on many other things than the 300-400 meters to have a good use of the capacity on this track. So I just want to say that nothing is better than if more people choose to travel by train on this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1449	I thank you again for the answer. It is nice that the Minister wants more people to travel by rail. In the time people travel, the capacity is blown up, so that's basically no answer. We depend on good, sustainable solutions. In reply to the representative Ryan, the minister says that it is positive to travel collectively. This should also apply to the Gjøvik track; it should be possible to do so. The Council of State, which is also the top director of the Railway Agency, has a lot of power. The Gjøvik track is 100 years this year. I wish the council had a better gift for the jubilant than to send out the scanted train line on offer. Will the Council of State intervene and ensure that we get back the double track, which quite rightly has never gone further than to the Count, so that we get future development opportunities for this path?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1458	This is a general challenge. Whatever means of transport we have problems with capacity in the rush period, well to mark urban areas and especially in the capital area. This is a challenge you have to live with. The challenge for us is quite right to make arrangements so that we can find good transport solutions and make use of the capacity over time. If it will be necessary to increase capacity in order to find better solutions on the Gardermoban, this will be done, and it will be seen in a coherent context with all the infrastructure challenges associated with the railway around Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1467	This question, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1470	Already in the dithering message, St.meld. No 50 for 1998-99, the problem of asylum seekers and others unable to receive full pensions in the population because of the lack of long-term residence in Norway was described. There were also proposals for measures to correct this bias. The government has not yet followed up on this. Social assistance becomes a necessary sustainable contribution to living. The municipalities are under a financial burden. What will the Government now do to ensure that the people involved can receive pension rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1475	As pointed out in the question, persons with short periods of residence in Norway will receive little or no pension from social security. The safety net we have in Norway today for these cases is only social welfare benefits under social protection law. I agree that it is unfortunate that this group often becomes dependent on lasting social assistance. In my opinion, social assistance is best suited as a temporary measure. For this reason, the Ministry considers the introduction of a supplementary social welfare scheme for the elderly and the disabled with little or no pension from the social security system. Such a scheme could ensure periodic benefits without having to go to the social office, while at the same time reducing the burden on the municipal social welfare services. The Ministry is therefore working on the matter and the various aspects relating to it, and will come back to Stortingen on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1484	Thank you for that. What the Minister of Social Affairs is now saying is what various government councils and government officials have been responding to for many years. This is a matter for which the municipalities have been working for ten years, and when the Equalisation Notice came in 1999, the government stated that persons with short butids in Norway should receive extra benefits from a new social welfare scheme, on the basis of a special law. At least the Social Committee's plurality was in favour. But the time has passed, and it's the municipalities that have problems. In fact, the last in February NRK Dagsrevyen also corrected the search for this, and then State Secretary Kaldheim confirmed that this was a flawed scheme, and that one should look at this more closely towards the 2003 state budget. I have a paper stack that shows the correspondence between the Communes' Central Association and the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the same answer has been given, so now I am asking for action instead of distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1491	The Department is working on the matter, and we're doing it thoroughly and really. There are several issues that need to be investigated and also assessed, including: the nature of a supplementary social security scheme in relation to existing social security schemes. It also deals with export-related conditions and, where appropriate, with the possibility of taking such a benefit out of the country. That is why we are working on the matter and will also come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1496	Yeah, thanks for that. But I think I'm going to challenge the Social Minister at some point because when she wants to come back, because now this is starting to piss off a little bit, not least there are some municipalities that are now refusing to accept new asylum seekers. Many of them are over 67 years old, and very many will not get a butid that gives them pension rights. Then, as the Minister for Social Affairs himself says, they must live on social assistance as a complement to the poor social security they may receive. I would like to stress that social assistance should not be of a lasting nature, but here a good number of people will be forced to live on social welfare for a 10–25 year period. One thing is that this is a municipal tax, but I kind of think it's a little unworthy of the people that this debt is, that one through this scheme is actually with and divides into an A-layer and a B-layer. So now I must urge the Minister of Social Affairs to come to terms with this matter as soon as the advice is given, because it is still unsatisfactory to get an answer that this is being handed out, and that the matter should come to the Stortinget. We were promised this last time in the 2003 state budget. It has not happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1501	I basically agree with the representative. The matter is to be brought back to Stortinget, and I also understand that the representative is impatient. The question, as referred to here, was addressed in the Cohesion Communication which came in 1999. I also want to remind the Labour Party representative that the Stoltenberg government in its year and a half did not come any further in this matter than to notify an investigation into the long-term programme 2002-2005. It's very necessary to do a real and proper job. That's what we're doing, and then Stortinget will get feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1508	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1514	This question, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1517	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Many municipalities spend a lot of time and resources providing property information, including: for real estate agents. This service does not allow the municipalities to claim payment after the current law. At a time when the local economy is heavily under pressure, such a free service may seem strange. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the regulations so that the municipalities can cover the actual costs they have with such matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1526	It follows from the Public Service Act that municipalities are not allowed to charge fees for the provision of property information. The background for this is transparency in administration. Information on real estate shall be freely accessible, in particular to the owner and other directly affected persons. It may nevertheless be decided by a regulation of the Public Health Act that fees may be levied. The Regulation shall be approved by the Ministry of Justice. In 2000, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs considered that there was a limited right to charge and a draft was sent to the Ministry of Justice in consultation. However, the regulation was not adopted because the Ministry found that such a regulation could be broken for important reasons of public interest. The municipality was briefed on this result in April 2001. In the hearing, the Ministry of Justice pointed out that the fee could only be charged for direct copying costs. Work effort in municipalities cannot be covered. Therefore, a fee could not be levied for a substantial part of what is the municipal expenditure of this work, and the revenue is unlikely to cover the cost of each act, but may be more expensive to operate than would be obtained for each copy of the document. The Public Law Committee was established in December 1999 and is to assess the principle of public disclosure in the administration. I think it would be most appropriate to await the conclusions of the sample before the issue of the fee for copying and disclosure of real estate information is re-opened, if necessary. I would like to stress that when the applicant points out here that the real estate agents will receive property information, it is usually on behalf of the owners who will sell their dwellings if necessary. It is primarily the group that has been responsible for the transparency and accessibility of this information. Real estate agents rarely request property information if they do not have a mandate on behalf of their owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1537	It is a well-known fact that the municipalities are now struggling with the tasks they have, based on the means at their disposal. Service cuts are today the theme of all communities, and school and care become the framework. Then it seemed strange that municipalities should not be able to pay for services with which they demonstrate that they both have a lot of work to do and also have documented expenditure. It is also the case that in the public hearing draft that was out there, there was a long list of documents where the ministry suggested that a person could make a payment. My question to the government council is: doesn't the state council also think it's strange that they can't get paid?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1544	The public has a role in keeping information on people's property. To a very large extent, this information is paid by owners at the moment they store this information, for example. through relatively large fees related to property disclosures and fees related to transactions in properties. I would like to remind you that in any property transaction a document fee of 2.5 pst is being paid today. of the property value. It is not that the government is not paid to store or for property information in general. As I mentioned in my reply, the real estate agents are required to obtain a number of information from the municipality in connection with the sale of property. We can always discuss who should have income and whether it is right or not, but I think the right time to review – since the previous government just barely a year ago decided not to go further on this issue – will be when the Public Law Committee has finished its treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1551	The municipal minister is known as a government council with strong points of view when there's something she's for. It seemed strange, then, that a government council that is so busy reducing its expenditure by the municipalities does not signal the ability of the municipalities to secure more revenue at this time. The municipalities both detect several hours of work and documented expenditure. At least one person could expect from the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs that, when this selection has come a little further, she could signal that it will have a different distribution between the State and the municipality than is the case at present. She herself has shown the way: the document fee. I hope she follows it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1558	I agree with the questioner that this must be seen not only in the light of the municipal expenses that are covered, but also in the light of how much homeowners, house buyers and people who are going to get into the housing market are actually going to pay for the transaction costs in relation to getting a dwelling. Today there is a high document fee, there is information about all the documents, and we also pay large fees to the real estate agencies to do these services. Fortunately, competition has increased in recent years, so that products can be better chosen. But I am concerned that in that case this is not something that can be analysed just because of the municipal needs for the coverage of income, but also because of the choice of models you have in relation to how many more costs we are going to charge to housing buyers and home vendors. Because it is actually the case that even if the questioner asks questions about the real estate agent's collection, there is a job they do on behalf of a seller. These costs will be overburdened and make housing purchases in Norway even more expensive than they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1565	Then we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1572	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Nordly Light Paper’ on 8 October 2002 shows that two owners of nine asylum recipients took out 7.7 million. SEK in dividends from the operation of the receipts. Does the Council of State consider this to be the proper use of taxpayers' money, and would the Council rather consider ensuring the quality of the receipts rather than basing its tender policy on the cheapest tender, with such consequences as have been exemplified here in Troms and Finnmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1581	First, let me point out that as long as the state does not operate their receptions ourselves, we cannot choose whether or not we will suspend the operation of reception. Under the public procurement rules of the EEA Agreement, we are required to outsource reception operations. Offers are obtained through advertising in a specific geographical area, e.g.: within a county or a larger area if it is close to a county boundary. The tenders received shall be assessed by price, quality and other conditions specified on the basis of competition. It is therefore not only the cheapest tender, it is also a quality requirement specified on the basis of which competition is based when a tender is made. The choice of supplier shall be aimed at obtaining the most favourable purchase for the country. On the other hand, it is up to the State to decide what is to be required of standard and quality. We therefore assess continuously the content of the operating rules, which regulates the offer to be made in reception. I want to make it clear that it is important that we constantly check whether the offer is actually good enough. That being said, the quality of the offer to be made in the reception is always required. It's the UDI that buys services, that defines the quality of the offer. If the received offer complies with the requirements laid down, UDI must choose the cheapest offer. In the next round, the UDI must follow up the operator and ensure that he actually delivers the services he has committed to and that the quality is as described. Since the requirements for reception operations have become clearer, the outsourcing of competition facilitates the UDI to verify whether the requirements it has set are actually met. The outsourcing of reception involves the conclusion by the State of a contract with the person who is able to deliver the best possible offer at the best possible price. Because this is the purchase and sale of services, we have to accept that a seller actually has a profit. In fact, it's not problematic for me as long as the offer given in reception meets the requirements, and as long as we can experience, as we do on the reception side, that we have a much better development in price there than the general price increase in recent years suggests. So we get more for the money on the reception business than we got earlier, just by using a tender. Finally, I would like to mention that we are now working on a greater degree of differentiation of the receiver. In the future, it may be appropriate to require better quality in some agreements relating to a form of reception of competences, which have more permanent and better contracts than is the case today, while at the same time adding the list somewhat lower for other agreements, as part of the differentiation of the reception apparatus we have, where we are looking more closely to offer an offer that is appropriate to our need to make a good offer, but also to provide an offer that does not have an additional appeal to groundless asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1596	I thank you for your answer. But is it not the policy of the Council of State that a reception must be placed as an important part of integration work, that there is a long-term thinking both in terms of competence and integration? This is the case where two owners of nine asylum recipients took out 7.7 million. kr in tax-free dividends. My question is about the quality requirements put to these receptions by the Council of State. Isn't it true that there's no small amount of money? And even though the Council of State argues that you've got a better offer and more reception for less money, and that you've gotten quality out of the money, how can she claim that this is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1603	I will be allowed to correct a misunderstanding. There is no such thing as ‘tax-free dividends’ in Norway. 28 pst is paid. taxes on all capital returns in Norway, including dividends, of the companies that produce here. Second, it's the way we set quality standards for the establishment of reception. We're going to differentiate between different types of reception, and then we're going to put it on a tender. Then the quality requirements shall be met and the UDI shall verify that the quality requirements are satisfied. So there will be competition between the companies that deliver. The reason why they can provide differences in quality may, for example: is that someone has properties that are cheaper than the others have. It's not just because of the type of house, it's lower quality on the houses, but it could be that the buildings are older, that they're written off, that you actually have costs that make you charge lower property costs. This does not mean that the question of having dividends in such a company is just a question of the quality of the offer being delivered. It might as well be that you have a cheaper operation than not. is concerned with the staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1610	I thank you for your answer. My question then is: Does the Council of State mean – I want to repeat what I initially raised – that 7,7 million. What is a good policy in terms of receipts in Norway? My next question to the Council of State is: do the Council of State see the receptions as an important part of the integration work and the long-term thinking of integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1619	Some reception is an important part of the integration work — not all. Now that we have a differentiated reception offer, it's because you don't have to start at an integration phase when you have obviously groundless applications, and so you need to be treated and returned as soon as possible. In general, therefore, it is not possible to say that reception in Norway should be based on integration. So we've changed that as a structure, because the asylum seekers' background and the likelihood of becoming asylum seekers have changed in recent years. Some receptions must be a good start to the integration work in the future. But it's not related to how much money the receivers earn. It's only SV that can think of that way that because someone makes money to drive something, the quality has to be bad. I believe, on the other hand, that there are quite different operating options that allow you to make money or not make money. For example, it is cheaper in some districts because the alternative cost of property is lower. This means that some reception in the districts will have lower rental costs, which means that they can come out with a lower bid and still make money. I think that is positive in the interests of regional policy. Therefore, there will also be someone who makes money in that process, and it is necessary for someone to set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1626	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-16.ana.ud2663e1637	There is no record.
