ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e28	Since this is the first meeting of the Stortinge in the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the Government, the staff of the Stortinge, the members of the press and all those who have their functions linked to the Storinge, a good new year. The representatives of Inge Wohnning and Heidi Sørensen, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The following permit applications are available: From representatives Kjetil Bjørklund and Magne Aarøen on leave in January 9th and 10th – both to participate in a course at the Swedish Defence College.From the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Rolf Terje Klungland from 9th January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Mette GundersenFor Uppland County: Tove LehreFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Per Steinar Osmundnes3. Mette Gundersen and Tove Lehre are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Rolf Terje Klungland and Kjetil Bjørklund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e81	Mette Gundersen, Tove Lehre and Per Steinar Osmundnes are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 21 December 2001: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 21 December 2001 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 determined: Department of Culture and the Ministry of Culture, Education and Research, Department of Commerce, Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Health, Department of Education and the Ministry of Health, Department of Education and the Ministry of Education and Science. 78 on the State Bank Investment Fund is transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.Management of the Product Register is transferred from the Ministry of Labour and Administration to the Ministry of Environment. [[SIVA]] [[2/14 of the company]] The President proposed that this letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e161	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Fossstatsrådet Laila Bava State Council Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e180	Since I have already wanted the Minister of Finance a good new year, I choose to go directly to my question to the Council of State. From 1 January this year, the euro changed from a technical, electronic currency to a sounding coin. The Minister of Finance is one of those who have wished the EU to succeed in their possibly largest project so far, namely the implementation of a single currency. I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is important for Norway and for the Norwegian economy that the EU succeeds in this project. The Minister of Finance has pointed out, as a disadvantage to Norway, that the pressure on the Norwegian krona could become tougher in a situation of concern in the international financial market. My question then is: can the Minister of Finance elaborate on what he is putting into this, and whether he sees measures beyond today's agreements that can better secure our crown against such possible pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e189	I am pleased that we share the opinion that it is an advantage for Norway, which now probably has at the base of 40 p.m. of its trade with the euro area, if the euro area countries succeed in their efforts to strengthen the economic growth of the area, inter alia, through: making markets more efficient, for which the euro is part of a plan. It is true that, on a general basis, when many countries join forces in monetary cooperation, it may, in a given situation, increase pressure on foreign currencies which are significantly smaller. I don't think it's appropriate to wonder in what kind of situations it might be. I can't imagine, with the financial prospects we now have, that such a situation would occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e196	I thank you for your answer. I would like to point out that the Council of State has also further stated that it may be that some of the interest differences we have in Norway in relation to the euro area can be attributed to a kind of risk premium that we pay because we are outside Economic and Monetary Union. At the same time, the Minister of Finance has announced a number of possible interest rates reductions in the future. Then my question is: how does the Minister of Finance think that the introduction of the euro will affect Norwegian interest rates in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e201	I do not see that the introduction of the euro, as the representative formulated as ‘sounding coins’, or flashing notes – that is what happens at the turn of the year, as the means of payment has existed for three years – should have a direct effect on the Norwegian interest rate level. However, it is probably also widely assumed among economists outside the Ministry of Finance and Norway’s Bank that we live with a certain amount of risk when we are outside with the high Norwegian interest rate. The representative used the expression that I have “commanded” or advertised several interest reductions. I don't think the finance minister should do that. In the context of the budget, I have said that the budget provided a good basis for a fall in interest rates. It happened. Furthermore, I don't want to speculate about the fall in interest rates, except to refer to the governor's statements, which gave several analysts the basis for believing that there are going to be more reductions in interest rates. But that was not my advertisement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e208	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e211	The introduction of the euro, according to news reports in the media yesterday, has shown that there is a difference in the price of McDonald's hamburgers in the various EU Member States. It is well documented, and this will lead to the more effective competition described by the Minister of Finance. But whether it would be appropriate to drive from France to Italy to buy a cheaper hamburger, it remains to be seen! But to a completely different angle of incidence. It is not primarily a lack of connection to the euro that means that we have a higher level of interest rates than the European countries. This is primarily due to a high level of activity in the Norwegian economy. Fortunately, we have low unemployment, and we have a lot of capacity utilization in the economy that makes us have a higher interest rate. It's a goal for all of us to get down. But can the Minister of Finance describe the consequences of the same interest rate in Norway as in the euro zone, in a high economic situation, that we have had in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e220	I share the representative's opinion, and I don't want to go to Greece to buy a hamburger just for the price! These price surveys show, in part, that some multinational companies have a price fixing that is difficult to explain for local reasons alone. So the fact that consumers are now getting more insight into the pricing of all kinds of goods throughout the euro zone, I think we can help to get a slightly lower price for some goods for the benefit of consumers. – Then we'll have to assess whether we want to travel after them, or whether we want to take them with us when we first leave. The representative, Mr Enoksen, has also asked me on previous occasions to explain what would be Norway’s situation in a given situation if we were a member of the EU today and also a member of the euro zone. I don't find any reason for that. Both parts are completely hypothetical ratios. I am concerned that Norway is not a member of the EU, is not a member of the euro zone and must make the best of the situation in which we are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e228	President! So that's not what my question was about. If I can clarify a manifest misunderstanding – that was not my question. This did not apply to Norwegian membership of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e233	There's no way to solve misunderstandings in the oral questioning rhyme. Misunderstandings must remain misunderstandings! [[Laughter]] The President will otherwise allow himself to note that the question of the future travel activity falls under the direction of the Minister for Transport! [[Laughter]] Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e240	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. In the heated debate that we have now experienced about the cod agreement with Russia, it is clear that this with the resilient coughing of marine resources is quite important. But in it there is also a coughing of the marine mammals, which is probably so important. I have noticed that in recent years the quota has been fixed for the wave in good time before Christmas. This year I have not registered that this is the case, and I wonder what is the reason why one has postponed the setting of the quota this year. Is there an internal dispute in the Government? Or is the reason for a escalation, hopefully up against what the researchers claim might be possible, easy to house against 2,000 animals a year, which is completely defensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e247	Sustainable development and harvesting of marine resources are clearly linked, and it is then absolutely necessary to see the harvesting of marine mammals in such a total context. Therefore, in recent years Norway has also taken the burden of starting whaling internationally. That's what we're planning to do, both because it's necessary and because the population is large enough to be harvested. However, we are following IWC's recommendation on quota fixing, which is also extremely conservative. The fact that the quota has not been fixed does not reflect disagreement in the Government but reflects the fact that the Government of the Ministry of Fisheries has felt the need to use the time necessary to determine a figure reflecting it with sustainability. It's time for the catch to start. I expect the quota to be fixed by February at the latest, and we will then focus on this with ecosystem management. The quota in 1999 was 753 animals; in 2001 it was 549 animals. We will assume that the catch for 2002 will be within the ‘tuning level’ recommended by the IWC, the Scientific Committee, which is between 0.60 and 0.72, i.e. the number of animals will be between 377 and 736. Within these limits, we will determine the number of animals, and the work is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e256	That was a good answer, and so far an expected level. But now there are more and more researchers who claim that there is no problem, and that there are enough animals in the sea that one can take up against 2,000 animals. Will the Council of State work for us to get up there? This is important for cod stocks and other stocks in the Barents Sea. All researchers are also aware that the marine mammals collect about three to four times the catch of the catch, not only from the Norwegian side, but from the total quantity fished in the Barents Sea. Is it at the Council of State -- I don't expect him to bring the Government first -- willing to start working on this? And will the Council of State also look at this with self-anguish, so not also does it go down instead, as it should, upwards, because this is left to do with the resilient hoarding of marine resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e261	Both the Council of State and the Government are making use of ecosystem management. That means we're going to harvest all the populations. There is also a broad consensus that the North East Atlantic population is significant, perhaps as much as 112,000 animals. It should mean that you could operate a tax that is three to five times as large as it is today. For the next year, I assume that we will stay within the tuning level recommended by the IWC Scientific Committee. But it is a fact that whales in the north-east Atlantic eat 1.8 million biomass. This means that, for example: So in 1995, the whale ate only herring equivalent to 70 pst. of what we took up by catching internationally. It puts things in the right perspective, and it underlines that Norwegian attitudes that changing governments have had in terms of the harvesting of whales are correct. At the same time, we have to take inward the international positions related to whaling, and I also remember that Norwegian whale sports, products from whales, are a work to be started, and we have hopes that both Iceland and Japan will be buying whale products this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e268	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e271	I must be allowed to congratulate the Minister for Fisheries on a very active Christmas holiday. I don't understand that he got neither time for the aqueduct nor ribs in Troms in Christmas. At least I got it hectic when I got to work after the holiday. I wake up on 3 January to a proposal that means that people along the coast either have to inherit a quota or add 10 million. NOK on the table to buy a concession to be allowed to fish. I disagree with this proposal, but that is not the main point. The main point is that during the last decade, the Storting has twice stated that the general public should be open. It is the people who jointly own the resources along the coast, and it is the people who have the right to share these resources. The Council of State's proposal to stop the recruitment of Group II involves the liquidation of this right. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State feel that he has a back cover in Stortinget to make a change in law that will end the general public in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e278	Despite the President’s statement that misunderstandings should remain misunderstandings, it is a misunderstanding if one believes that the Minister for Fisheries must choose between an active fishing policy activity during the Christmas holidays and the aquevit. The latter is a little bit topical no matter how politics evolves. In this case with an open public, the general public is open, but has been limited for a long time. It will also be open in the future in the case of combined fishing, whether it is government councils, big-scale representatives or others who want to fish for pleasure. It is only when it is forbidden that we can talk about the closure of the general public as such. But we see that overcapacity at the fishing stage means that profitability goes down. My attitude has been that we must first and foremost ensure profitability at all stages. This means that the full-year fisherman must first of all be guaranteed an operational basis when the quotas are reduced. That's why we see that there have to be more restrictions on access. It's nothing new. We have had access restrictions on individual fisheries for a long time. What we are now sending out at the hearing should form the basis for any restriction on access to fishing, among other things. cod, hay and seine, which in turn may result in a reduction in the so-called Group II quota and a natural interest in this fishing because of a decline in profitability. There is no desire on my part to reduce neither activity, income nor recruitment to the industry. But we have to take inwards that e.g. the quota for the year of 395 000 tonnes of cod has been strongly criticised and some have recommended that it should not be more than half. It is clear that when such a development occurs, it will affect all participants. And as I said, my priority will be first and foremost to secure those who have it as full-year income. But this is also a matter of coastal culture, and I will try to ensure that this is done in the best possible way – and the Stortinget will be briefed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e287	I define an open public as something completely different than the ability to draw cooking fish! When the Council of State proposes to stop the intake in Group II, it effectively shuts down the general public. Then the people along the coast don't have the ability to exploit the resources that are there. The proposal for a regulation that the Ministry of Fisheries has sent out is, in my opinion, a change in law, an amendment to a law that has existed for 800 years, ever since Magnus Lagbøter. I would like to repeat my question to the Council of State: Has the Council of State generally considered sending this proposal via Stortinget, or did he think that he is fully entitled to make changes in the laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e296	It is quite clear that the Stortinget is making changes to the law. We've sent out a hearing note. We're going to look at the reactions that are coming there. But it doesn't mean that it completely shuts down the public. So we disagree whether the general public is still as open as it was, because you don't have to look around much, until you see that there have been long-term access restrictions in terms of fishing. But shutting down the public is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e302	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e305	We've had a lot of reactions to the output from the department. The county manager of Finnmark, Arne Pedersen, says that those who can combine fishing with other work are the main supporter of the settlement. My question to Ludvigsen is therefore: Has Ludvigsen assessed the impact of regional policy when implementing the regulation that has now been laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e312	The hearing note is out. Let's look at the reactions. Then we will consider the implementation of any access restriction from 1 January 2003. It is clear that this also has to do with district policy. But we must be able to agree quickly that if we do not ensure profitability at the fishing stage, then we have done industry and districts a bad service. I record that someone disagrees with what we have proposed. There's still to be seen what the final result is. But I remind you that, in accordance with a unanimous decision in the Norwegian Fisheries Team, we are about to introduce a structural fund to buy out capacity. Then we have to make sure that on the one hand we do not buy out capacity and on the other hand we open up for anyone to come in. But I stress that we do not have plans to close the general public as such. It will still be possible for the so-called fisherman’s farm to find its livelihood in a combination of fjord and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e321	Bendiks H. Arnesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e324	I assume that the Council of State knows a project called ‘Combination industry along a fjord’. Here, a lot of money has been spent on getting people in the fishing industry to run just combined industries. As a result, many have invested large sums themselves in order to have fishing in combination with other industries. Is it so that the Council of State believes that we must now get these away? Is the state going to spend money on such a project first and then remove people's opportunities for combined operations? I refer you to a look up, among other things. on Monday in Troms Folkeblad on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e329	I can only repeat what I have already said, that the combination of agriculture and fjord fishing will also be possible in the future. It is not at all a question of closing the public in such a way that it is not possible to operate in combination. It is clear that the project to which it is referred is a good project that I hope will help secure the settlement and ensure the nutritional basis for most people. But we cannot avoid that when some people recommend strong quota restrictions, this will have consequences primarily for those who have this as a part-time diet. So it's when the creep is empty that the horses are bitten. That's what we can now risk seeing the consequences of. But from my point of view, I have a desire to continue the part of coastal culture that is based on combined fishing and the so-called fishing ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e336	Given the nature of the question, the President will assume that the reference to the horses bitten, in this case it is a sea horse! Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e341	I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries says that he will review the proposal after the hearing has been delivered. But to a slightly more general question of principle in relation to the future structure of the fishing industry, which is closely linked to the proposal that the Minister for Fisheries has now promoted: when the Minister for Fisheries says that it is an objective to increase profitability, I agree with his heart. It is necessary in large parts of the Norwegian fishing industry to work for increased profitability. But you certainly also give some signals through the way you choose to restrict access to the fish and the way you distribute the total quota. And when the share of the allowance – the share of the total allowance in Group II – falls, it will not increase the profitability of this group. On the contrary, it will mean reduced profitability. In this way you can see this as part of the government's policy when we hear today that the municipal minister wants 100 fewer municipalities, and that the smallest municipalities are going away. I will not connect this without further delay, but: Can the Minister for Fisheries give me answers to who will increase profitability? And what kind of structure does the Minister for Fisheries see for the future Norwegian fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e346	First of all, it shouldn't be a surprise to anyone that when we send out a note at the hearing, that means that we're going to evaluate the recordings that are coming. Everything else would be wrong. I stress that the round of consultations which is, of course, a real round of consultations, and I will listen to the advice that comes. So that's what I'm saying, that when you now propose a restriction on access to the coastal group's fishing for, for example. hush and say, it means a limited access. It is not my job at this stage to identify who will be the winners here, but it is clear that the annual fishermen and increased profitability for those who have this only profession are priority numbers. 1st@item: inlistbox Then the annual quota negotiations, the annual quota determinations, will significantly affect the profitability of the different groups, but on the basis of the objective I have, it is clear that all-year fishermen in Group I will be those who have priority primarily in the future allocation of quotas and in the future regulation and organisation of fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e353	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e356	My question is to the Minister of Finance. The 2002 budget decision was a political decision to increase the differences between those who have the best advice and all those with poor advice. 80 pst. they receive tax revenue of more than DKK 300000 – the specific government lot and the Progress Party – and approximately zero for those with revenues of less than DKK 200000, which are two thirds of all over 17 years. In 1999, women in Norway made an average of 162,000 kroner. Today, a full-time assistant serves NOK 228 000. Only 14 pst. Of all the 17-year-olds in this country, more than NOK 300 000 was made in 1999, and they receive DKK 4 billion in tax credits in the current year. That decision is a dramatic discrimination against women, from people from the districts who earn poorly and from others with low incomes. The government is now notifying that EUR 10 billion will be given in personal taxes from 2004, and the government is likely to have taken the lead in the investigation to take place. The question then is: will the Government use that tax opportunity to reduce the differences by giving priority to those with low incomes and contributing to a fairer distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e366	I don't think I'm going to dare the Storting with further polemics from the budget debate last fall. I would just like to note that the majority of the population voted in favour of the Government's proposal to remove the dividend tax – in line with the views of the Central Party in the past, and not least in line with the views of former Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad. I'm glad. The government has reduced a selection under the direction of Arne Skauge, which is to investigate a tax reform. The term of office of that committee is in line with the Government's political basis, the so-called Sem Declaration, and the decision taken in the autumn 2000 budget compromise between the then Labour Party Government and the Centre Parties, when it was a desire for such an investigation. The committee has been mandated to provide one alternative, or several, so-called 'progeny neutral', which does not contain tax reliefs. In addition, it will outline an alternative containing tax relief of the order of 8 billion to 10 billion kroner. The representative said that we have put leadership on how to do this. We don't. I simply refer to the mandate where one of the objectives – in line with the views of the Centre Party, as far as I understand – is to reduce the distance, often called the voltage, between the highest marginal tax rate on employee income – 55 pst. – and the maximum marginal tax rate on capital income – 28 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e375	Governments don't want to talk about this topic. I still think it is right to recall the deep injustice that rich people in the press areas are given priority in this area. The size has decided to reduce the differences. It has also been part of the Christian People's Party and the Left, and I think it must be right that the opportunity we now have when it comes to giving so much tax relief, is also used for this very thing. Another effect of tax relief is that several of those with low wages may be tempted to work more. Researchers have shown that the poorest decade will work more if wages are increased, while the richest tenth is not affected at all if they get more by working. I would like to ask the Council of State: how much emphasis will the Government put on giving most of the tax burden to those with low incomes, and thus contribute to getting more labour to our business life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e386	It is the government’s view that an important objective of tax changes is to stimulate increased labour supply. This means that the scheme of increased deductions, generally referred to as the base deductions, must be such that it does not increase the marginal tax on, for example: an income referred to herein. A part-time assistant, or nurse, who wants to move to a full-time job, has to experience the tax changes so that it actually stimulates work. It is important to balance the increase in the payroll or bottom line. So I'm taking with me the view that the Center Party is now expressing, that we're going to set this up so that more people are stimulated to go to work. I fully agree with that, and that is in line with the Government's view. I hope there is some understanding that I am not currently sketching out the government's tax arrangements for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e393	There will be follow-up questions – Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e396	Let me first say to the Council of State that we are pleased that he is now setting up a commission to look at our tax system. It is high time to have it reviewed after all the holes that have occurred. The government is now focusing more on tax relief over a low shoe, and less on the construction of the welfare state. Furthermore, there has been a rather large degree of agreement on the use of the money at the yield of the oil fund, and there is much agreement on that in the Stortinget. As we now see, the yield of the oil fund alone will go to tax relief for enterprises and high-wage groups alone. My question to the Council of State is: is it appropriate to use the yield of the oil fund to have a unilateral arrangement against tax relief for companies and high-wage groups? Building the welfare state should have been given a stronger focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e405	The comprehensive theme of the Government's Declaration of Accession is the further construction of the welfare state. This is done by public funds. It takes place through the modernisation of the public sector, a work which was initiated by the previous government and which is carried on by force and expanded by the current government. In addition, it takes place through a tax system that contributes to increased growth — the basis for well-being — and increased labour supply, which may be the greatest scarcity factor in the economy today. There's a whole behind this, and that whole thing is also building the welfare state. Moreover, I can reassure the representative that it is not entirely new that tax system changes are combined with certain tax reliefs. I have good quotes from former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen from the early 1990s that underpin that view, and I will build on that, perhaps with a slightly changed number.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e412	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e415	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. The cod population in the North Sea is at risk of extinction, and this is also the situation for other species. Research teams claim that the North Sea is now so submerged that only a quarter of the potential of this marine area is produced. There is a broad consensus that the need for strong instruments to address this dramatic situation is present, which was also signalled by the Stortinget before Christmas. I have noticed that the agreement with the EU on restrictions in the North Sea, which was due to enter into force on 1 January of this year, is suspended. Then my question is: what other measures does the Minister for Fisheries intend to take in addition to what is already clear, in order to address this dramatic situation in the short term and in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e424	It is true that the North Sea has been overfished in some species over a long period of time, and it has not been a sound long-term sustainable management. Both Norway and other coastal states have taken this into account, and I point out that it benefits. Norwegian breeding herring is an example of good management over time producing results. It is such that the agreement between Norway and the EU – as the two main actors such as coastal states – on the restoration of cod stocks was concluded under the previous regime, and this was in a way confirmed in the context of the fisheries agreement negotiated in December between Norway and the EU. Important elements such as the determination of mesh size in trawls and the closure of important growing areas for small fish and juveniles have been implemented, so it is not correct that it has not been continued and realised. However, there were also some other minor technical changes, such as the introduction of shakes, the modification of wire thickness and such things as there was full opening in the agreement that one could use for a transitional period in order to have an adjustment. Before Christmas I had a meeting with the industry where we agreed that this would be used for a short time. We expect this to be implemented within a few months, but there has to be a certain transitional arrangement to adapt to this. But there's less change. The significant grips have already been taken as from 1 January 2002 with regard to the closure of growing areas and the modification of the mesh size.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e431	I record that what the Council of State here refers to is what the previous government took up and put in place, and my question was what other plans the Council of State has because of this dramatic situation. Finally. It is claimed in the media that the state council is being pressured by the industry. Does the Council of State feel that it is difficult to do this because of pressure from the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e438	To the end, I can certainly say that I do not feel pressure, but the industry has strong actors who have strong opinions. But if you go in and look at this, you'll see that the Council of State and the Government have made a decision regarding the management of the North Sea and species there that are in conflict with the wishes of Norwegian fishermen. This applies, inter alia, to: the management and allocation of the quota for Norwegian breeding herring herring. When the questioner somehow gives the previous government credit for implementing these measures, I could say that then the dramatic decline in the North Sea must also be a consequence of the regime of the previous government. I don't think any of the parts are party-politically distributed. There is a broad consensus that the management of the North Sea has not been good enough, and Norwegian administration principles in the North Sea have been increasingly implemented by the EU, and we see results from this. So my ambition in this round is to implement the administrative regime, the management agreement, which was negotiated, and which was confirmed in December under my leadership, and then implement the technical adaptations in terms of fishing and gear. That's the first one. The other thing is to continue the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e448	The President will allow himself to suggest that the fish will have problems noting the difference between the governments at all times under any circumstances. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e453	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. On TV, state councils have announced their wish to ban the computer game ‘Grand Theft Auto 3’ – ‘GTA3’. In my hometown this has been the top advertisement for the game. Several shops are sold out and have had to order new charges. I have recorded that the same is true of several other places in Norway. In the light of this, I would like to know if the Council of State sees her play as a wise play. We know that politicians' desire to ban film, video and music has historically tended to be an enormously good PR for the products involved. The same seems to be true of PC games.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e462	What I've wanted with that game, and as I think I've also achieved, is to have a debate about the content of computer games. It's been my business. In addition, I have to say that this game is extremely violent, which has also been stated by the importer himself. It is so extremely violent that in my opinion it would be interesting to have it assessed against our law, and then it is primarily the criminal law we have available. In addition, I have asked questions as to whether there has been good enough labelling related to this product. The Consumer Ombudsman sent a letter to the KE Media, which is the importer, just a few days ago, requesting that a better labelling and Norwegian marking be made within 14 days. I hope that the importer will follow up. The Consumer Ombudsman also goes quite far in saying that this is so extremely violent that it has to be noticed in a completely different and stronger way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e469	There is no disagreement that these games are violent, some of them. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is not a member of censorship. We believe that anyone over the age of 18 should decide for themselves what they want to play. Of course, we support – and we think it is a pleasure – that you get a better labelling of games as a consumer information, but, as I said, we do not want censorship in this area for those over 18 years of age. In ‘GTA3’, some of the content is driving people down, killing prostitutes, etc. I would like to ask the Council of State how this differs from a normal feature film on NRK, TV 2 and TV3. If a ban is to be imposed, the media must be treated equally. I can see no reason to treat a PC game differently from what you do with, for example. "NYPD Blue" on TV 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e476	First, I would like to say that there is a work going on in Europe on a common European standard for censorship and classification of computer games. Here, both the Film Authority and the Ministry of Culture are involved, and there is hope to find standardised solutions on, among others. labelling and age limits. It's very positive. This game, in my opinion, is extremely violent in relation to what I've seen, and I've seen a lot of games, because it's blind violence. There is no history associated with it in the way that we like to see in a feature film or in any other way in a program where you have a continuous action. Large parts of this game go on a violence scene where a person goes and kills people so that the blood flows. He just knocks down the game. It seems quite real and realistic because today computer software is quite good at graphics. It's totally unmotivated, blind violence, and that's what I've been reacting to. That's what I'm asking if maybe it's against the provisions of the penal code. Because we have a provision there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e483	There will be follow-up questions - Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e486	To play computer games you need to have a PC, and most PCs today are connected to the Internet. When you talk about violent games, I have up to several sons who also have computer games of a very violent nature, without having to comment on them. But I don't think it's particularly different that you cut the head off of people, to say it like that. But back to my point: you're connected to the Internet, and you know that you can buy games and download them if you have good friends over the Internet. My question to the Council of State will then be: How does she intend to prevent children and young people from accessing these games, and what control functions does she intend to implement against Internet purchases and Internet downloads?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e493	What I think is one of the most important things here is the debate I have wanted to initiate on the content of violence in, for example. computer games. I think that even parents here have to take a very strong responsibility to know what the kids and the kids are doing when they play computer games on the Internet, and make sure that it's not something that's harmful. That's the one. The second is that it's right that you can download a lot. That is why work is going on in Europe right now, so important. This makes it possible, at least within European society, to have a rule that will prevent this from happening in the whole area. But the world is bigger than the EU, and we have a problem. I don't think we can manage to find rules today that cover the whole world. But then the more responsibility comes to the parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e500	Eli Sollied Practices – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e503	When we in newscasts on TV show excerpts of computer games in which grossly elected innocent people are produced as “cult”, “game” and “moro” – people in the street are turned down and kicked to death, people are run over by car, and ambulance staff coming to be shot down – I think it has to be reacted. What we now experience is a dramatic increase in power, ran and killed in Norway, and this kind of 'toy' is uncritical in legalizing such inconsequentially blind power. These kinds of computer games are forbidden to sell in the United States, while we can freely translate them into Norway. I fully support the ideas that come from the Davøy State Council, and I would like concrete proposals to come in such a way that we are in line with the United States and ban this type of computer game.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e508	It is in Australia that they have banned this special game, and when I now, after the debate that has taken place here, have looked at other countries, I see that there are also countries in Europe that have more stringent enforcement of, for example. age limits and labelling of products than we actually have in Norway. So I look forward to getting more stringent rules here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e514	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e517	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The kindergarten bet has been important for the Workers' Party for many years, and in the state budget we showed that we were serious about investing almost SEK 1.2 billion in order for children to have a safe nursery place and the parents could get the place at a reasonable price. Unfortunately, we see that this is not the pace of development we all expected and wanted, and I have to say that I had probably also expected a slightly more offensive attitude from the new government when we know how much money has been put in since it took over. So my question is, what does the Council of State intend to do to keep the pressure up, so that thousands of children who are currently in kindergarten queue can have a place? I also want to ask the Council of State if she is willing to introduce an individual law from 2005, to which the Workers' Party added? That way, we have the opportunity to secure everyone one place, and I would like to hear what the council thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e524	I fully share Mr. Bekkemel Orheim's concern about the lack of pace in the development rate in relation to kindergartens. Without getting the figures for this year, it might indicate that we're not able to get enough space compared to what was set aside in the budget, and it also worries me. The grip that this government intends to take on kindergartens, and that could perhaps help, we think, increasing kindergarten development, is the transformation of the funding model. We have to equate the private and public kindergartens with a government grant, so that the operation is ensured. We hope that it can initiate that more people dare to bet on kindergartens. In the case of individual law enforcement, we also need to look at it in the light of the new funding model. It will be evaluated, but I can't at this point say how we're going to follow it up. But that we should have a debate on it and assess it in the light of the new funding model – yes, we should.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e531	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very honest answer, and then we can at least see that the new government does not propose that we should have such a strong right of commitment in relation to the time to which all parties have committed themselves when it comes to promising a place. Then I want to clarify at the same time a misunderstanding on the part of the Prime Minister in the last spontaneous question before Christmas, where he tried to present it as if the Workers' Party were not concerned with non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. I will strongly reject that. The Labour Party has been a strong supporter of non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens and has also provided it in the budget we have submitted, which I expect the Council of State can confirm. But what's going to be interesting about the answer the Council of State now gave is how we can secure the municipalities in relation to the fact that it's going to take out $3 billion in the municipal bill for next year. We know that there are municipalities that have a lot to do with funding their plans, and the issue of the state funding model is actually that it should be deducted 3 billion kroner from the municipalities. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e538	That is absolutely interesting, but speaking time should be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e541	Part of what the representative asks questions about is exactly what we are investigating about the new funding model, how we are going to do this with the owners. We have a close dialogue with both the KS and the private kindergarten owners. The former state councillor, Bekkemelm Orheim, also had problems with, was just committing the municipalities. We can't do that today, and there we have big problems. And as far as private kindergartens are concerned: although it has been suggested that there should be equality between private and public kindergartens, this has not been done, because the municipalities have been able to choose whether or not they would give money to private kindergartens, and it has turned out that the municipalities have given most of the child care allowance to their own kindergartens and to a very small extent to the private. So a lot of the private kindergartens have come into a terribly difficult economic situation, and that's probably some of what our new funding model puts up to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e546	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e549	It is now important in the future to focus on those municipalities that did not prioritise kindergartens and that did not lower prices, despite the fact that money is in place. Many rapporteurs may not be very pleased with this attention, but toddlers are enough of a different opinion. Ålesund municipality was an example. But after a year and a half of fighting, Ålesund has now decided to build two new kindergartens and to lower the prices. They no longer want to be stutters, they say. Now we're going to take into account that the local economy is very poor in many places. But I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: Is the Council of State planning to continue breathing the rapporteurs in the neck, or is the Council of State just going to continue a wait and look attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e554	I'm going to blow them in the neck still, as it's been done by other politicians before me, and I think it's absolutely necessary. What we're seeing today is that there's a lot of variation in how far you've come in kindergarten development, and I have to say that it's been very happy to see in some municipalities that you're actually starting to put down the parental payment more actively than what was the signal before New Year's. Only in the last week have I had telephone calls from a couple of rapporteurs, not in the largest municipalities we have, but with happy messages that we are now putting prices down, and we have full babysitting. Such messages to the ministry are very pleasing. But we have to blow the municipalities in the neck, I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e559	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e562	There was an interesting exchange of words between the current and former ministers of children and families, both of whom found that despite the beautiful words and expectations of the Stortinget, the municipalities have not had the opportunity to comply. And then the main point, according to the Central Party's view, is that Stortinget has not set up funds in relation to all the expectations that lie in the local government sector. There will be a better quality in schools, a better care for the elderly or more childcare facilities if there is no greater consistency between the tasks assigned to the municipalities and the resources put at their disposal. My question is: Will the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, with experience in the nursery sector, press on with the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Municipal Affairs to ensure both greater consistency between tasks and resources and the creation of the imbalances currently existing in the municipal sector? Indebtedness, however, requires local authorities to spend much of their resources on interest and deductions rather than on new services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e570	I can answer on behalf of my area, and in particular in relation to the main issue, namely the kindergarten development. Of course, I do not take responsibility for the fact that no funds have been put forward in the past, but I agree with the representative, Kleppa, that this has been a misunderstanding. Of course, it also has to do with priorities in the municipalities, but I understand that the municipalities have done a lot of tasks in recent times. I can promise I'll press the Right-Man Foss here. I'll do that. I also want to refer to the budget for this year, which actually provides a very good economy related to the bet in the kindergarten sector, and I am very pleased about that. We have a goal to achieve full child care coverage by 2003. We also have a goal of significantly reducing the parental payment in this period. I'm going to "stand on" the finance minister, and I expect him to help me out a little bit here from the Stortings pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e577	The President will express the hope that ‘standing on’ the Minister of Finance was not literally meant! So we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e582	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, but first I would like to wish you a good New Year. My Christmas holiday this year started with a tragic funeral to a fifteen-year-old who died of ecstacy. Today, children with severe mental problems are in line from nine months to one and a half years to receive treatment. Eastfold is the state I know best. There we now have one and a half years of waiting for treatment in child and youth psychiatry, and there is not a single treatment provision for the youngest drug users. What will the Council of State and the Government do about children not getting the emergency aid they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e589	This is perhaps just as much a question that the Minister of Health should have answered, since it concerns child and youth psychiatry. That said, child protection and child and youth psychiatry have close and close cooperation in a number of areas. But I'm not hiding that when I read parts of the Befring committee's attitude, and when we've started working with the new Children's Protection Act, I see that there are huge gaps and major gaps both in the cooperation between child and youth psychiatry in child protection and in psychiatry. The Health Minister has previously said that children’s and youth psychiatry should be given a very high priority in the future. The reorganization of child protection, and the debates we are facing there, will come back to us, but we have major challenges, and I share the representative's concern that the situation is not at all good enough in terms of offers to children and young people today. Children’s protection institutions must accept if a decision is taken to take care of them, but the psychiatric institution can today choose to say no. There's a problem, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e596	I would like to thank you for your answer. I disagree that this is not a matter for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, because it is child protection that makes decisions about care. The situation is unacceptable and requires action from our department. What concrete action will the Council of State and the Government take to reduce the waiting time and provide treatment for the youngest drug users? These kids are the weakest, and they're failing by the system and us politicians. I could imagine asking if the Minister for Children and Family Affairs wants to give children and young people a treatment guarantee, because today the economy is the reason for refusal of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e605	It is true that the Minister for Child and Family Affairs is, of course, also involved in this issue since we are responsible for child protection. Some heavy clients are found, if you can say so, in child protection, also in the area of drugs and psychiatry, and there are a number of measures in place. In the case of a treatment guarantee, which goes more to psychiatric treatment, I think I have to say that it is up to the Minister of Health to answer. We haven't had a debate between us on that point, and we must have had that before I can answer it. What I want to say is that we have a close and intensive cooperation. Among other things, we have a State Secretary's Committee. We have also met among ourselves on the problem of children and young people and alcohol, both the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Affairs, all three of whom are strongly involved in this problem. We haven't discussed ourselves successfully, and I can't now make statements about concrete actions, but we're working intensively, and we're hoping to find good solutions. I also cooperate with the Minister of Justice in the field of drug abuse and young people and children in various situations of violence and crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e614	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e619	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, by Mr Inge Ryan to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Education and Research who directs him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away. Question 14, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e635	‘In the evening post on 2 January 2002, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last autumn refused to publish a chronicle at Norway’s Embassy in Washington because it contained views that a fear could be perceived as Norway’s official position on the U.S. military tribunals. In what way does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the views of this chronicle differ from those of Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e642	The representative, Karin Andersen, in his question, argues that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs refused Lasse Qvigstad at the Embassy in Washington to publish a chronicle on American military courts because of the content of the chronicle. This does not lead to correctness. The decision was taken on a principle basis and without regard to the content of the article. Freedom of expression is one of the pillars of any democratic society. Freedom of expression must apply to all. Public officials are initially entitled to participate in the public debate in line with everyone else, as long as they act as individuals and do not speak on behalf of the institution for which they work. However, when public officials comment on matters in their field of competence, freedom of expression may be limited by the obligation of loyalty. This requires care in relation to opinions on matters falling within their scope of action, in particular when their opinions may be perceived as reflecting the views of the Government. For public officials charged with acting on behalf of Norwegian authorities vis-à-vis a foreign country, as Norwegian diplomats abroad, there is a particularly strong need for care. The background to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' instructions to the Embassy in Washington on 3 December last year to refrain from engaging in the public debate on US courts was as follows: The embassy became aware at the beginning of December that the then Justice Council Qvigstad had written a chronicle about American military courts which he would publish in the evening post. This was just before Prime Minister Bondevik's visit to Washington, where the matter was raised. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs considered it most likely that Qvigstad's chronicle could be seen as the view of the embassy and thus the Norwegian authorities. It must be the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not the individual official who must be in charge of when and how Norwegian foreign policy is presented. Whether the personal views of Qvigstad would coincide with the views of the Government is irrelevant in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e657	I thank you for the answer, but I find the reason a little suspicious. It might have been easier to believe in what the Council of State says, that this is a principle decision, if it had at all been possible to understand what was the Government's view of the matter, and one had confidence that the Government had spoken with a clear and unambiguous voice and taken away from some of the clear violations of legal certainty that one risks by such a treatment as we now see the outlines of. So these are the basic principles of the rule of law and the core of democracy we're talking about. Then it is very important that countries speak loudly and clearly, including to their friends, when in conflict or crisis. I would like to ask the Council of State: what has really been the Government's position towards the United States in the conversations that have taken place? Have they differed in any way from the views Qvigstad makes in its chronicle?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e669	I have to say that I find it very strange, to say it carefully, that the questioner mentions my answer as not very credible. That she doesn't agree, I will accept, but that she asks questions about the credibility, I must say I will ask myself very curiously. Now, however, Karin Andersen is out of what she's really asking about, which is the point of loyalty. That is at the heart of the matter, to my knowledge. What Norway thinks about the military court is different from the question that was raised here. Regarding that question, I have explained it earlier in a spontaneous Question Time and made it clear that the basic legal security requirements must also be put in this context, and that is the position that has been put forward. In the public debate, there have been a number of elements regarding what military courts should involve. In this way, there is reason to remember that it was a framework that you first reacted to. It is now developing a content in this framework. Some questions still need to be asked. I would like to underline that. Some of the questions raised in the Norwegian debate are now probably being answered. But we know this first of all from the American press's mention of what's coming. Let me then reserve the right to see the final text. There is no reason not to continue to be interested in the matter, but some of the issues I think will be answered positively, including from Karin Andersen's point of view. But this is something other than the loyalty of officials, which was the question we originally discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e680	I would then like to point out that the question is: ‘In what way does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the views of this chronicle differ from those of Norway?’ So it's the substance content of Norway's position. The question of the loyalty of officials was not at all affected in my question. There are others who have addressed that theme. My interest is genuine: what has Norway said, and why has Norway not spoken so clearly that it has been possible to hear it? For precisely in such critical situations, where important legal principles are threatened, it is very important that free nations uphold the principles of legal certainty and say openly and clearly before a nation has taken a decision, and not afterwards. In retrospect, it is very difficult to enter into a dialogue with a nation that has taken a stand in such a case. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that this is the question and that it is important for a country such as Norway to speak unambiguously and clearly? In that case, the concern that someone might perceive it as talking to two tongues could not be present at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e690	I have answered this question, but I can repeat the answer to that question, namely that we have reason to believe that the fundamental principles of law to be in court should apply in that matter. It provides guidance for a number of the details that are currently being prepared. That position was clearly expressed in the spontaneous question hour after questions from Kristin Halvorsen. There is also a point of view expressed by the Prime Minister in conversation with the US Minister of Justice, so that these views have been there all along, and Karin Andersen is probably familiar with this. The problem, however, is that in terms of some of the individual elements, it has not been clear what the Americans would come up with. However, in some of those areas – I say not all, but on some of them – it seems that some of the concerns raised in the public debate are, fortunately, not the basis for this. With regard to the question itself, I would like to point out that there is simply no connection between the two terms, because the question is based on a premise that is not correct, namely that the Norwegian authorities rejected the Qvigstad article because he disagreed with what was supposed to be the Government's position. I'm saying that's not the point. This is about who will direct the presentation of Norwegian foreign policy, which is a completely different issue. Whether you agree or disagree with what Qvigstad said is on the side of the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e703	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Norwegian Government seems to place an emphasis on neutralising the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. This despite the fact that, through inter alia, the Security Council Resolution 242 of 1967, Israel has been characterised as an occupant vis-à-vis the Palestinians. Is it the government's view that Israel is to be regarded as an occupant on the West Bank and in Gaza, and that the Israeli expansion of settlements in these areas is contrary to international law?"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e712	The Cooperation Government will continue Norway's commitment to peace in the Middle East. A solution to the conflict must come as a result of negotiations between the parties and be based on Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338. The West Bank, the Gaza Strip and Jerusalem are to count as occupied territory under international law. Norway supports the Security Council Resolution 476, which strongly criticises the Israeli measures to change Jerusalem’s status — including the annexation of East Jerusalem. According to the 4. The Geneva Convention for the Protection of Civilian in War is not allowed to transfer its own population to occupied territory. The Israeli settlements in the occupied areas are therefore, in Norwegian view, incompatible with international law. Norway has for a number of years agreed to the establishment of a Palestinian State. A viable Palestinian state is a prerequisite for lasting peace in the Middle East. The starting point for Norway’s involvement is that the Middle East conflict cannot be resolved by military means – only through negotiation. In the Oslo Agreement of 1993, the parties recognised each other and decided to work towards a peaceful solution to the conflict. The core of our work is to bring the parties together so that the process can continue. Norway is taking a great deal of distance from any form of terrorism. We have repeatedly urged the Palestinian authorities to prevent new acts of terrorism and to arrest those who are behind terrorist attacks against Israel. President Arafat, in his speech on 16 December, took a clear distance from terror, and the measures he has taken since then show that he takes the fight against terrorism seriously. However, it is essential that the Palestinian authorities continue their efforts to prevent further terrorist attacks. Because of their military superiority, Israel has a special responsibility for acting with restraint. Liquidations, sanctions against the civilian population and the humiliating treatment of Palestinian leaders can only subside under the hatred of Israel and strengthen the most extreme forces on the Palestinian side. It is crucial now to put a permanent stop to the acts of violence and to put in place confidence-building measures to enable the parties to return to the negotiating table. That's what we're trying to contribute to, which I made clear during my recent visit to the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e733	I thank the Foreign Minister for a crystal clear answer to the question that has been asked: Israel is an occupying power. Israel is occupying Palestine. And second, the government believes that the new settlements made by Israelis inside Palestinian territory are contrary to international law. But I don't get the crystal clear part of the answer to hang with the Government and the Foreign Minister otherwise spend time on the Middle East conflict. It is not, of course, as Petersen says in his reply, that it is Israel's military superiority to hold Israel back from acts of violence against the Palestinians. It is simply the fact that Israel is an occupying power in relation to Palestine, which must be underlined. That means you can't sit with your hands in jail and just talk about violence having to stop on both sides, but you have to make demands to Israel that if there's going to be a fair peace – and you actually think that Israel is occupying Palestine – they have to step out and respect the boundaries that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e740	It was probably more a comment than a question, but let me nevertheless pursue the dialogue and say that yes, the answer was crystal clear, although there was no news in it, for this has been established attitudes from the Norwegian side for a long time. What's the question now is how to get a peace process that's gone to the degrees of the rails, back on the rails. Then it is quite essential that terrorism be stopped, that confidence be restored, and that one should go back and follow the road map as the Mitchell Commission, where, among other things. Thorbjørn Jagland was a member, pointing out. It's not just Norway's and my attitude in the situation. There are many ways around the world that have the same message to the parties. Now, I think if you're going to find a solution, it's very important to follow the map to which the Tenet proposals and the Mitchell Commission refer, and that's what we're following. I was recently in the Middle East, and that was the first visit from a foreign minister after Arafat gave his very important speech on December 16. I think it came at a very right time, and it will be to hope that the parties can gradually recover. It is very important that this happens now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e749	I would like to say that it is not so strange to wonder, because what I perceive is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs places the primary emphasis on when to comment on the situation in the Middle East, it is to press Arafat for him to take the necessary steps to stop the violence. But the pressure that the Foreign Minister could put on Sharon is absolutely necessary to bring about a fair peace in Palestine. I wonder if the Foreign Minister in his talks with Sharon has clearly said that Israel is occupying Palestine and that the settlements in the Palestinian territories are illegal. This must be the basis for a peace agreement. So it's not like the rest of the world is talking to Israel with one voice. It is simply that Norway in the Security Council and in the General Assembly does not vote for a resolution on foreign observers in Palestine, because it does not fit the United States, and because it would provoke Israel. Is it not simply so that if a fair peace is to be achieved in the Middle East, some have to say in plain text to Israel that their occupation of Palestinian territories cannot continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e756	The description that was now given by the Norwegian vote in both the Security Council and the main assembly, I do not share at all. We believe that when resolutions are to be made in the Security Council, it is important that the Council manages to get together on what is to be said, and it is important that we also say what is right at that time. And it was too weak at that time about terrorism. I want to add that voting has not created any problems in relation to the Palestinian territories. I can say as much as the Palestinian authorities are now just concerned that Norway should be a bridge builder and pass on messages to the other parties. And of course, it's an important role that I've played with the greatest joy of all in implementing. So I think that in retrospect there's no doubt that this was a proper vote, and that it's made it easier for us to join in making an overall solution than it would otherwise be. Otherwise, it is not right that we speak exclusively in relation to Arafat in relation to terrorism. Our messages vis-à-vis the Israelis have always been very clear, and we've put emphasis on presenting them at the same time as we bring them to Arafat. I would agree entirely with Kristin Halvorsen that if it were just to send messages to one party, it would be wrong. The messages we have sent are about the Norwegian positions with which Kristin Halvorsen is well known.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e772	I will ask the Minister for Church and Culture the following questions: ‘The NRK has closed down the shortwave transmissions. This particularly affects the merchant fleet. The coastal party has been, and is, a driver to maintain a satisfactory transmission for the fishing and commercial fleet. There has been cross-political agreement on the importance of these shipments. It is therefore very surprising that we are now recording that the NRK is shutting down the shortwave transmissions without political treatment. How does the Council of State view this decision and will initiatives be taken to restart the shipments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e781	The NRK has a free position on editorial questions and in relation to the operation of the company. This is the result of broadcasting law, the NRK’s statutes and the organisation itself as a limited liability company. When it comes to the closure of the corrugated shipments, the NRK government has assumed that this does not lead to a significant reduction in supply. The board's founding is that as a result of new technology, Nordics abroad today have better access to news and information from Norway than just a few years ago. NRK radio channels are currently available on the Internet and via satellite receiver. The NRK is well-known for its major economic challenges. At the request of the general meeting, the operating budget of the NRK shall be balanced. It is important for the NRK to be able to implement the measures needed for the operation. The importance of a policy perspective must be to ensure that a change of approach is at least possible in relation to the NRK’s main activity and the task of public broadcasting. So it's within the NRK's powers to shut down the shortwave transmissions, and I'm not going to take any initiative against NRK in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e792	Does the Council of State consider it satisfactory to deal with the fact that the Board of Governors of the NRC in the budgetary downturn is disbursing such an important matter and function as this is for the Norwegian merchant fleet and for the rest of the world, especially given that the Storting has adopted the development and operation of the short- and medium-wave facilities? In terms of changes here, the traditional newscasts and editorial levels in the NRC have changed so that they do not get these news bulletins in 30 minutes around the world in the same way they have previously received. Does not the Council of State see the importance of having a political treatment, preferably in the Grand Duchy, of such a social issue as these foreign broadcasts are and have been?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e799	It could be tempting to intervene in relation to both the one and the other proposal that the NRC’s government has discussed and adopted, in terms of how the NRC will be able to balance the economy. For me, however, it is important to underline what is the role of the Council of State and what is the role of the NRK's government. We know that both via the Internet and satellite receivers, the NRK comes quite wide and far also in relation to people living abroad, and I stand by what I said in my first answer, that I didn't intend to take any initiative in relation to the NRK. I can do the same or not, but if I were to take an initiative towards the NRK when it comes to all the proposals that they have now decided on what to do to balance their economy, I would actually have taken from the NRK's board of directors and the broadcasting director the responsibility they have in relation to their job. For me, it is important to be able to let go of taking an initiative when they take decisions that I am not always as pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e806	It is claimed here that the problem is that the form of governance of a limited liability company makes it impossible to intervene in the bets that the Stortinget has previously adopted. Does the State Council see the problem of transferring decision-making powers from the State Council to the NRC Board of Governors in relation to such important national responsibilities and issues? Will the State Council, if necessary, take an initiative to change this form of governance, and in particular practice, towards the NRC? Today, it is as general meeting she can give her instructions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e811	The way the NRK is organized is decided by the Storting for not so many years ago. I will not repeat history in relation to which party said yes or no to the organisation. I take note that it has been adopted, and I have to stick to that. I would also like to add that when it comes to the Barents Sea, radio broadcasts are certain, for example. by transmitters on Røst and Nordkap. The NRK also informs that they have examined the interest of the shipowners in a new package that can be sent by e-mail to those who can take it. The NRK is also trying to provide services to those who do not live in Norway in terms of the dissemination of Norwegian news. I must take note of the decisions taken by the NRK. And as I said, I think that if I had intervened in all the areas where different representatives here in the hall have asked me to intervene, I would have corked had the head of broadcasting or government after some time. For me, it is important to stress what is my responsibility, and what is the board of directors and the broadcasting director's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e823	This question, from Inge Ryan to the Minister of Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e826	«Does the Government consider that current chicken production complies with the provisions of Section 5 of the Animal Protection Act and what measures does the Government intend to take to improve the ethics of chicken production?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e831	Animal welfare and livestock ethics, including chicken production, are an important issue for the Government. The Ministry of Agriculture is working on a major communication on animal welfare and animal husbandry, which will address and discuss all aspects of animal husbandry from an animal welfare and ethical point of view. The breeding aspects will also be addressed in this Communication. The notification is scheduled to be submitted to the Storting during 2002. Norwegian chicken production is based on a breeding material that is mainly common to the whole of Western Europe. With Norway’s small production of chickens for fattening, it has not been economically possible to maintain a national breeding system in this area. In the breeding work, great emphasis has been placed on rapid growth and large muscle filling. This has allowed animals to develop bone problems because bone formation in the skeleton has not followed the same course of development. In particular: Scientific studies on chickens for fattening have been carried out in Sweden showing that many animals have bone problems. Similar studies have not been conducted in Norway. The review of the cassation reports from some Norwegian slaughterhouses shows that discarding due to bone disorders is approximately equivalent. 0.01 pst. However, these studies will not reveal all the facts recorded in the Swedish surveys, but nevertheless give an indication of the conditions. Although this is a problem which has increased in recent years because of effective breeding, I would still not say that the problem in our country is so great that there is reason to claim that production is contrary to the Animal Protection Act. The reason why it may seem that the problem is smaller in us than in some other countries is, among other things. that in Norway it is common for chickens to be slaughtered at a lower weight than in our neighbouring country. This means that the chickens do not develop bone problems to the same degree as the animals that grow larger and heavier. Different environmental factors such as feeding and feeding, stocking density, care and smoking also affect the state. Relatively small herds and good operation can therefore also help to reduce problems in Norway. However, there is reason to be aware of the problem both for authorities and producers. We should work together to influence the international breeding activities taking place in this area so that it can be transformed in a more well-being direction for the animals. The industry has developed a separate animal health action plan, which also provides for extensive surveys to be carried out in Norway. Quality system in agriculture, KSL, will also make it possible to impose requirements on producers in this area. The Ministry has for a long time been concerned about these issues. In this respect, I would like to point out that a new regulation has just been adopted on poultry keeping, which has a separate provision on breeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e848	It is true, as the Minister of Justice says, that the industry has developed its own animal health action plan, but it does not address the main problem, namely breeding. In 1920 it took approx. 120 days for fattening a broiler of 1,5 kg. Today you do the same thing in 32 days. If you were to compare it to us humans, a baby would have been 100 kg in one month. Then we realize that there are huge things that have happened in relation to the way you handle these animals. It is said in the response of the Dørum State Council that it is not considered to be contrary to the Animal Protection Act. Section 5 of the Animal Protection Act prohibits the breeding of animals which have undergone changes to their farms so that the breeding “implies the physiological functions of unsatisfaction” or “impacts unnecessary suffering on the animal”. I disagree with the answer of the Council of State Dørum that this does not affect the animals in ‘unlucky boredom’. So I ask again, isn't it the government's will to see if we should change the regulations and the requirements of the industry, so that it has to do this in a much more animal-ethical way?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e859	As I said in my first answer, we have just adopted a new regulation on the keeping of poultry which has a separate provision on breeding, and I will allow myself to quote the provision: ‘In breeding, emphasis shall be placed on producing healthy and robust animals. Negative properties such as malpractice, bone problems, aggression, fear, plucking and chopping and the need for restrictive feeding shall be selected. Work shall be carried out to produce animals which may have normal day lighting and normal night darkness.’;» [[including natural light]] Now, I am not, as the representative is probably familiar with, some agricultural specialist, but it is clear from the answer I gave on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture that there will be a separate big-mouth message that looks at ethics and animal health on a broad basis. I know that the Minister of Agriculture is concerned about these questions. He has even provoked many by saying that animal ethics will apply not only to the country but also to the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e869	We are responding to the call for animal welfare. It is a big message which, at least, we welcome. We think we have a lot to deal with there. What I'm concerned about is that you don't forget that you have animals that live today, but that you're actually constantly trying to follow this up to the best of these animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e874	I expect the Minister of Agriculture to behave his children in the right way. I myself have bought eggs from free-range hens on his farm, so I expect the Minister of Agriculture in that way also in his practical way of life that he takes the ethical question seriously. He has also marked this very clearly to the public as a politician. The issue put forward by the representative, Mr Ryan, namely that one must be critical of ethics and carry it out in a clean and proper manner, will be taken care of by the presentation of the communication. Then the Storting will also have the chance to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e884	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘A woman travelled 144 km/h in the 90 km zone of E6 through Eastfold. Civilisation Lawyers confirm the City Court’s judgment on conditional prison sentences, even if the offence is usually qualified for unconditional prison sentences. The reason is that atonement can cause the woman to be expelled from her Muslim family. Does the Council of State think that religious affiliation can be degrading by judgments? ’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e893	It is not true that, in its judgment of 14 December 2001, the law of the law justified the conditional reaction that compensation could lead to the exclusion of the woman from her family. The law says the contrary explicitly – and I quote from the preambles: ‘Due to the similarity which must apply in criminal proceedings, the court considers that this cannot give rise to a conditional reaction.’ I understand that view. However, when the law found that the prison sentence should be conditional, this was justified by the fact that a long time had elapsed since the criminal situation occurred and the health status of the person in question. As the Minister of Justice, I cannot comment further on the criminality of the law enforcement in the specific case, but on a general basis I will be added: once the court has found that a person has been guilty of criminal offences, it shall measure a penalty within the criminal framework of the law. The principles of punishment are not laid down in the law, but are developed through case-law over time. The central features of the criminal investigation are the gravity of the action and the degree of guilt that has been committed. In addition, aggravating or mitigating circumstances may exist outside the action itself. Such a mitigating circumstance may be that prison sentences will be particularly severe, for example: due to old age, illness or other conditions. The Court may emphasise the individual consequences of prison sentences, even in the case of criminal measures for speed and per million infringements, even though the penalties here are so standardised that there is less scope for such individual criminal measures. It is a long tradition for us to know the criminal framework and for us to have legal rules on the considerations to be taken into account in the criminal investigation. In this way, the court can determine the most reasonable, appropriate and fair penalties in each case. In the end, it is for the Supreme Court to issue directives on the considerations which may be taken into account in different types of cases. That's what I think it should still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e909	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I haven't even read the sentinel. My question is based on an article in Moss Avis from Saturday 15 December 2001. It says: ‘The judges referred to the legal textbook that the driver is a young Muslim woman living at home with her parents, where the father is very conservative and complies with the rules and standards he knows from Pakistan. The woman had not told the family about the incident.» It goes on to say that this is the background to a conditional judgment, even though this really qualifies for unconditional imprisonment. So probably this is something that is completely out of the question. I don't know where these journalists who have gone through this, have been, but since this derived my question, I will nevertheless follow up: If it turns out that there is any team in this, then the Council of State agrees that customs, customs, traditions and family justice in a country of origin can be a basis for mitigating circumstances?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e923	In the article in Moss Avis from which the representative Hedstrøm has quoted – and it is quite rightly quoted by the representative Hedstrøm, for I have the feeling in front of me – it further states that the woman had not dared to tell her parents about the event, with the following conclusion: ‘Due to the similarity which must apply in criminal proceedings, the court considers that this cannot give rise to a conditional reaction.’ That means that the court has done a summation of the facts, and then the court goes into other matters, as I have mentioned. It can be done, among other things: on time and on the health situation. I've said in the past, with the quote I had from the premise of justice, that I have an understanding of that way of thinking. I would like to say it as generally as that when you live in Norway, you also have to realize that it is our legal tradition that you relate to. It has to be valid anyway. I feel that the law has also done so in the feeling I have quoted from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e933	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. This is very joyful. In that case, the opinion of Kari and Ola Northmen does not suggest that there is a discrimination based on ethnic origin or traditions in other countries. Judges in similar cases later have to ignore this particular case, because there were other circumstances that led to conditional imprisonment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e938	The courts will always intervene in the material available. But let me take an example in hypothetical conjunctivities that I would drop down on as Minister of Justice – not against a single sentence, but in legislation: Let's imagine that a court of law somewhere in Norway, where a man from another part of the world where you can often treat women hard, has almost beaten a woman unhealthy. So the court says that because it's not so unusual to act the way the man comes from, you have to let go easily. I can assure you that this kind of position will be defeated by appropriate legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e946	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘We have seen in recent weeks that several young people have disappeared in an unexplained way. Police and search crews have made sense immediately enough to initiate search operations and investigations to find those missing. However, it appears that the response of the authorities is very different in such cases. What will the Council of State do to ensure that such matters are treated as closely as possible throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e955	It is a priority and important task for the police to respond quickly and specifically when a person is reported missing. Annually, police in Norway receive up to 3000 such messages. Most of those who are reported missing, however, come to terms with soon, with or without police assistance. In any event, the police shall take seriously a failure message, if necessary by initiating search operations and investigations which may lead to the missing person being found. However, it seems obvious that there has been a lack of clear and unambiguous guidelines for dealing with such issues, as confirmed by the Directorate of Police. As early as 1 July last year, the Directorate of Police sent out new guidelines to ensure a more consistent and quality treatment of the notification of the individual concerned. The guidelines address all aspects of police duties when receiving a missing person notification. The Police Directorate will now evaluate the guidelines in order to see whether they are appropriate to the demands that need to be made on police action in this area. It is not least that part of the guidelines dealing with the contact with the relatives to be verified. In addition, initiatives have been taken to train special officials in all police districts who are given special responsibility in all kinds of cases where close contact with relatives or other victims of crime is required. When there are reports of missing persons, it will also be relevant for the police to decide whether to initiate investigation in order to clarify whether a criminal offence has occurred. The national lawyer has therefore been actively involved in this. Among other things, the police's investigational responsibility in missing cases was widely discussed during the national attorney's annual meeting with the state attorneys last year. Further informs the national lawyer that he is currently working on a general circular on the police's handling of missing messages. Against this background, I am sure that the weaknesses that have previously been raised regarding the handling of missing person messages by the police will be corrected in the future. Both the police director and the national lawyer have now given clear signals as to the priority and quality of the police to give this type of work. In particular, it will relate to police contact with the relatives. I am pleased to note that the latest issues that have been mentioned in the media about missing young people, so far, seem to have been satisfactorily addressed by the police districts involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e976	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Obviously, there is a difference between theory and practice in the ministry. In the Haugesund/Karmøy district, there have been three disappearances over the past two and a half years that have clear similarities with the current issues. In either of these cases, the missing person was found to have died by chance. I have been in contact with the relatives in two of these cases, and they are very dissatisfied with the police's efforts both because of late reaction and because of generally little goodwill. I have also been contacted in the last few days from several parts of the country where the experience is the same. In the disappearance case of the 17-year-old Bjarne Eide, who disappeared at night until 18 June 2000, it was a long time before research and search was started. Moreover, according to the parents, this was so deficient that they themselves had to collect money to search for their dear son. Does the Council of State think it is right that one of the richest countries in the world should collect money to find one's loved ones? And will the Council of State contribute to the resumption of these matters, so that the relatives can now have peace?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e987	I understand that the representative is very committed to individual matters. But I want to remind you of what I said in the answer. I said that there have obviously been weaknesses, that initiatives have been taken to correct these weaknesses, which have been confirmed both by the police director and by the national lawyer, that guidelines for this were issued on 1 July last year and that these should be evaluated. In it there is a recognition that it is clear that one can improve in these matters. There has been a debate on this before. It's not like it's in the department you run practice. In the Department, through the Police Directorate and in cooperation with the police departments, the best possible job is to be done. When you recognize that the job can be done better, that's a starting point for you to do a better job. It's like this in the police that when you recognize that you can do a better job, you try to get it done. In this case, among others: search for the deceased, and the Stortinget has actively helped us to have our own financing system for this, which I believe provides an excellent starting point for us not to do as it was mentioned. I know myself from the last time I was Minister of Justice, the use of KNM ‘Tyr’, among others. after the Sleipner accident, where I, among others, to ensure that relatives are not in the situation addressed by the representative, Mr Vaksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e996	I thank the Council again for the answer. We see that the budget line for missing persons at sea increased dramatically in the last year's budget, and that the police officers in Bodø and Stavanger can also obtain funding for searches if local police authorities approve this. However, in disappearance cases it is difficult to establish whether the missing are on land or by water. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he will look at the criteria for the allocation of such funds, and whether he would also like to provide compensation for the survivors who have had large financial expenses. Furthermore, in some cases, the defense has contributed, for example, to divers and search vessels, while in other cases this has been impossible to obtain. Will the Council of State take a closer look at the cooperation between the police and the defence in such matters, so that we too can get the most equal treatment possible throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1007	We will have a chance to look at some of the questions raised by the representative, Mr Vaksdal, among others. in the context of the Vulnerability Communication, and also in the subsequent treatment of the suspension from the Jokende Committee, which looks at the use of rescue resources in Norway. It is a tradition that the police not only cooperate with the Defence Department, but also not least with various voluntary forces locally. My impression is that that cooperation often works well. If it can be improved, it's a question I always want to look at. I also agree with the representative that the arrangement we have been given to search for the deceased provides a better opportunity. Whether there are aspects of the system that can be repaired is a question I want to take with me in my further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1019	I ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘It has long been a problem that county authorities have not had enough treatment points for drug treatment, while private treatment institutions have had considerable available treatment facilities. What will the Council of State do about this when the state takes over the county special services for drug treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1028	State acquisition of the specialist health service from 1 January of this year also includes measures for drug users authorised by the Specialist Health Service Act. These represent approximately 20 pst. by the intervention apparatus, the main focus of which is outpatient interventions such as the psychiatric youth teams. I refer here to Stortingen's treatment of the Health Business Act. Although some of the measures for drug users have been transferred to state ownership, the county has continued to have a responsibility under the social services law to provide places in institutions for the care and treatment of drug users. In a short time, the government will issue a consultation note on the future organisation of county authorities for the treatment of drug users. The review of interventions for drug users includes both private and public services. The objective of the state transfer of specialist health services is to achieve more holistic governance, a clear political responsibility, better overall use of resources and better healthcare for patients. This objective is also maintained in the case of measures for drug users now organised in state enterprises, and there will be an important premise in the proposal sent by the Government in a short time at the hearing. The government will strengthen treatment provision for drug users. It must be an objective for those seeking treatment to receive an offer to do so, and varied offers both in public and private terms are necessary. Relatively, Norway has an intervention apparatus with a rather high number of institutional locations. However, the question is to what extent the provision and organisation are adapted to today’s needs and whether it is widely exploited. A better treatment provision for drug users, as provided by the Government, requires that we take into account the complex nature of drug problems, the different needs of drug users and the need for a variety of measures. Another important element is that each individual is given the most appropriate help according to their needs. While some people need treatment rooted in psychiatric or therapeutic methods, others need more care-oriented assistance and social pedagogical follow-up. Help must be anchored in local health and social services, based on cooperation and action chain thinking, and usually have a long-term perspective. The government has so far made some very important contributions to improving the provision of treatment and health services for drug users: health services are now to be given a clearer responsibility to provide health services to drug users as well. This is first and foremost highlighted by the fact that responsibility for medically assisted rehabilitation and low-threshold measures has now been transferred to the Ministry of Health. These areas also receive significant budgetary reinforcement from 2002. The government will draw up an action plan on drug problems during this year. In addition to prevention, the plan will focus on better treatment provision for drug users. It is further clarified to health businesses that they need to ensure the further development and organisation of measures for people with mental health problems and extensive drug abuse. The premise for the future organisation of treatment for drug users will be a clearer responsibility position, a strengthening of the specialised treatment provision and a better availability for all, irrespective of residence and local economy. Private institutions and voluntary forces have, and still must, an important role to play in helping drug users. It is important to make use of the overall capacity and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1043	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which seems promising for the future. Unfortunately, there have been very many examples of the fact that, following individual decisions taken in the county councils, because of the lack of capacity and poor economy, county councils have failed to fulfil their obligations under the law on treatment, and in particular coercive treatment, of drug users. The starting point of the question was to be confirmed by the Minister of Health that the new companies, which have now assumed responsibility for the municipal institutions, can be sure that patients will receive the treatment they require under existing legislation that these services are provided to patients even if they do not have suitable institutions in their own region. My first supplementary question is: can the Minister of Health here and now guarantee that this practice will be followed by regional health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1050	I have already stated in the 2002 assignment of the new regional health companies that they need to ensure the further development and organisation of interventions for those with extensive drug abuse. The consultation round we are now launching will help to clarify which of the municipal institutions governed by health law are specialised health services, and which are not covered by health law, and thus fall within the scope of social legislation. At the same time, we are working on a framework for health enterprises to make greater use of cooperation with private institutions through agreements. I expect that there will be an overall arrangement, which can better take care of the concerns of the representative Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1057	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer and look forward with anticipation to the practice that will now be demonstrated in the future. I also very much hope that the overall level of care will be greater than in the past as a task for the Norwegian health service. My last supplementary question relates to treatment admission practice. The current requirement of public treatment institutions is that patients should be drug-free – they should in fact be sober – before entering treatment. Will the Minister of Health do something about this practice, so that patients can be brought in for treatment when they are motivated to try to become sober, and not three weeks later?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1064	I want to look at all aspects of how these services are to be provided, including the question of accessibility and access to services, which the representative Alvheim now asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1072	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The mental health of asylum seekers is often poor for various reasons. The medical follow-up is far too poor. The health situation is often aggravated by living in a room with more children in reception for two to three years. The uncertainty as to whether or not one is allowed to stay is also a contributing cause. This affects the whole family, and children live under unworthy conditions over time. What action will the Council of State take to improve the health status of those concerned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1081	First, let me stress that it is a priority task for the Government and the Minister of the Municipal Council to reduce the processing time and to ensure a faster settlement for those who are allowed to stay in the country, while at the same time facilitating a faster return for asylum seekers who are denied their application for asylum. As the representative of May Hansen points out, many refugees and asylum seekers have serious physical and mental health problems as a result of the pressures they have been subjected to. It is therefore important that healthcare is able to capture and provide a good service to this group as well. In Norway, refugees and asylum seekers have the same right to health and social services as the rest of the population. This includes, inter alia: that they are covered by the fixed medical scheme – here I will refer to the regulation on fixed medical devices in the municipalities, § 3. For refugees and asylum seekers and other groups with special and complex needs, it is particularly important to have a regular medical contact, also because the decision-maker is responsible for coordinating different types of services for his patients. Following a mandate from the Ministry of Health, the State Health Authority has now drawn up proposals for new guidelines for the provision of health services to immigrants and asylum seekers. The guidelines shall provide information on the nature of the healthcare provision to asylum seekers and refugees, both in terms of content, scope and organisation. The new guidelines are expected to contribute to the provision of a professionally sound health service to asylum seekers and refugees, for example. by clarifying the responsibilities between the different levels of service. I expect these guidelines to come into force during this year. All health regions today have their own psychosocial team for refugees, who are responsible for increasing the competence of first and second line services in the field of work on the mental health of refugees. In addition, psychosocial teams provide outpatient studies and treatment of traumatised refugees. In line with the proposal in St.meld. No 17 for 2000-2001 in the budget for this year, we have strengthened the regional psychosocial teams for refugees and asylum seekers by means of an equivalent new position in each team in order to strengthen their advisory activities towards municipalities. In order to enhance the competence of the healthcare system in the field of the health of refugees, the Stortingen has decided to set up a competence unit for somatic and mental health and care among people with a migrant background. The unit is now at the start of Ullevål Hospital in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1092	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Despite what the Council of State says about rights, many asylum seekers feel that they become a waste of money in the health care system and that the health care system refuses to treat them because the problems are complicated and complex. I heard what the Council of State said about the Centre of Competence, but will the Minister of Health take the initiative to give us more special skills so that they can receive adequate treatment? And should one think of other forms of housing than reception for those who have poor mental health?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1101	The answer to the first question, on strengthening competence, is to a large extent that we are, in fact, in the current budget, i.e. in the 2002 budget, strengthening all regional centres of competence for refugees and asylum seekers by means of a new position equivalent to one, so that they can strengthen their advisory activities towards the municipalities, and that we are in the process of establishing this unit of competence at Ullevål Hospital. However, I am generally concerned with the same thing as the May Hansen representative, that all people in this country who are entitled to health care should meet with the same respect, and on the basis of the same respect for human dignity. It must not be the case that patients with complex problems are rejected because it is difficult to give them an offer that is proportionate to their problems. It must also apply to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1108	We know that there's a very long waiting time within psychiatry, and here it's a much more complicated problem than what we're used to. So another thing: we visited a reception yesterday. There were 18 children living together on a very small area, with a very bad indoor climate. It worked as a kindergarten — called a children’s base — while parents were at school, work or elsewhere. This children's base was open from 7 p.m. 7 a.m. until 7 a.m. 17 in the afternoon. What will the Council of State do to ensure that children in reception of asylum receive a viable health perspective, both mentally and physically? In my original question, I was in the children’s perspective, and in asylum recipients, children live under unworthy conditions for two to three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1117	The most important answer to that question is the work being done by the Government and the Ministry of Local Affairs to streamline the processing time in asylum cases. The long time spent in reception is associated with the excessive, unsustainable length of time spent in proceedings. There is a UDI in the process of implementing several organisational measures with a view to reducing the duration of treatment. A new refugee settlement scheme is also in place for 2002 to help achieve this objective. In addition, it is clear that we need to pay attention to the situation of asylum recipients, as pointed out by May Hansen. These are questions that I would like to discuss with the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1127	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Save Children held a conference on the growth of children in isolated religious communities on 12 November 2001. The conference revealed problems for children and young people after breaking out of such societies. Education, health and social security are the rights of these children to a small extent. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1136	There is freedom of religion in Norway, and it should still be. But a child minister should not be either deaf or mute where the child's human dignity is violated. The same applies where laws or international conventions affecting the rights of children are violated. Exercise of an authoritarian and controlling ideology should be reacted to wherever this occurs. Where this causes or impedes the necessary medical care, education or welfare rights for children and young people, this must be taken seriously. It is contrary to our demands for good growth, and it is contrary to the rights of children through the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I would like to mention in particular Article 13 of the Convention on the right of the child to freedom of expression and information, Article 14 on the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and Articles 24 and 28 on the right to health and education. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that several departments share responsibility for actions and instruments to this group of children and young people. I am thinking in particular of the Ministry of Culture and the Church, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Health. Two years ago, a group of young people who had broken out of isolated religious communities took initiatives for the Go-On project. Young people needed help in meeting with society outside and in obtaining their rights to education, health and welfare systems. This project was the occasion for the conference organised by Red Barna on 12 November. The project is run by Redd Barna's Rights Center, and was funded by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. It was also initiated by former Minister of Church, Education and Research Jon Lilletun. The main purpose of the project is to provide practical assistance to children and young people who have broken out of isolated religious communities. It is also important that the neighbourhoods and children’s and youth organisations are alert to the issue under consideration. The children must be included, and they must be met with openness. I would like to address the issue with the children's and youth organisations, so that these are particularly aware of the situation of the children concerned. Nor will I exclude direct conversations with leaders of religious communities where the issues mentioned may be relevant. But I will not interfere with their belief anchoring. However, all religious communities must comply with Norwegian law. If there are abuses based on religion or cultural traditions, we have an obligation to intervene. Finally, I would like to stress that the vast majority of children who belong to small religious communities have a safe and healthy upbringing. These are religious societies where just openness, tolerance and humanity are central values.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1151	: I would like to thank the Council of State for an answer that I feel gives a great deal of understanding of the issue that has been raised. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the conference referred to has received project support from the Ministry of Church and Education and has been followed up by both Lilletun and the former Council of State Giske. This conference concluded that children and young people who later broke out receive too little of general social rights, including: because of their lack of experience in relation to the type of bodies. Thus, there is a need for an agency to provide practical assistance to children and young adults who have broken out of these communities. I am aware that the Redd Barna and the Go-On project have plans for a pilot project to set up such an organisation in parallel with incorporating further information and research in this field. But Redd Barna is dependent on getting financial support for it, so I'd like to ask the Council of State if she would like to take a positive view of such a project and possibly also of the handling of such an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1160	I would first like to point out that efforts are needed at several levels to help children from isolated religious communities. It is important that both the auxiliaries and the school know the problem area, both in order to capture and provide help to these children. Also, psychiatry has a role to play here. I'm also familiar with that, for example. Today, Modum Bad provides a treatment offer aimed at this group and the problems these children and young people have. That being said, the summary from the conference is also quite specific – I just mention a few key points: lack of supervision of private schools, it was one of the main conclusions, necessary help for children who experience abuse, you have to be able to see the ‘invisible’ children, there is a lot invisible in this. It is also an action aimed at parents, that parents have to set limits and guide their children, and perhaps someone needs help to do so. I also see that Redd Barna will discuss the future efforts, and it is possible that the project to which the representative refers is a follow-up. I do not know the project and therefore cannot give an answer, either yes or no, about whether we should provide support. But of course, I'll discuss this with Redd Barna when they come and ask. It's an important area, to say it like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1172	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Education and Research who directs the person. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1175	I will then be asked the following questions to the Council of State: ‘According to the Training Act, special pedagogical training facilities are provided for free children’s playgrounds and free showers. A married couple from the municipality of Flora, who have a disabled son with a cerebral couple, have struggled for over two years to cover the costs of kindergarten and shower. The municipality has rejected the parents' claims on the grounds that the son falls outside the law. Does the Council of State consider this to be a correct decision on the part of the municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1184	The question concerns, as the President also said, the Prime Minister for Education and Research. I am therefore answering on behalf of her. I would first like to point out that I cannot go into a specific matter that I do not know, but will give some general assessments. Section 5-7 of the Training Act gives entitlement to special pedagogical assistance for pre-school children who have a special need for such assistance. When the assistance is provided in the nursery, the time during which the child is given such assistance shall be free of parental benefit. The other part of kindergarten may be charged by the municipality. Pre-school children receiving special pedagogical assistance will also have the right to shower when, for special reasons, it is necessary for the child to be able to receive the assistance, cf. Section 7-6 of the Training Act. The specific needs of the child determine whether the child is entitled to special pedagogical assistance under the Training Act. If the child has such a right, a municipality cannot escape the parental benefit by calling the measure something else. For example, a municipality may: not require parental payment by reference to the fact that the measure has been financed through the earmarked State grant of 10 p.m. to children with disabilities, if the measure is intended to fulfil the right to special pedagogical assistance under the Training Act. We have seen some examples of this occurring in practice, and the Ministry of Education has addressed this issue with the State Education Offices on a more general basis. It is the State Education Office that is the Board of Appeal and the Supervisory Authority in such cases. The Ministry of Education will communicate my reply to the Education Office in Sogn and Fjordane, so that the Education Office can assess whether the case should be re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1199	Thank you for the answer I received. This question is based on an individual question. I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State has problems going into a single matter, but this question is to a very high degree of principle. This case and this little boy, Morgan, show that the municipality in the process changes the name of the training scheme, from ‘special pedagogy’ to ‘control measures’. The municipality may feel that the law is wrong, but the right to such an offer also has the youngest citizens with the law in hand. I believe that we should also have a legal system and a responsibility to respond to the needs of the youngest, especially those groups that have special problems and needs. But I interpret the Council of State's response positively, and I hope that the Council of State will follow up with the State Education Office in this particular state. Compared to the Disability Association itself, there's as much between 40 and 50 cases as they know, so this is a big and important matter of a principle nature for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1208	I will pass this wish on to the Minister of Education and Research. I can also say that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and the Minister for Education and Research have started working together to look at precisely these regulations, these laws, which have actually caused so much confusion in the decision-making of individual cases. It's both that you have to have an equal understanding, and that there has to be predictability in this system out there. So we're trying to clean up so it's going to be easier to deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1213	Then I expect that this individual matter will find its good solution, and that the government will follow up in a responsible manner. Although the State Education Office is the Board of Appeal, it can never be that the legislator gives up the responsibility to follow up the rights of the youngest. If this is unclearly defined, and we see a misunderstanding in interpretation of law, I feel that we need to go a new round for a necessary legal clarification. And I feel that the Council of State is now saying yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1218	Yes, the necessary clarification here in relation to law and regulation is already in progress, and as I said in my original answer, we are sending a copy of this answer to the question of question time to the education office in Sogn and Fjordane, considering whether they should submit the whole matter to a new assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1227	I will be asked the following questions: ‘The EEA Agreement also provides for the application of EU internal market legislation in Norway. Norwegian laws, regulations and administrative provisions which take into account EEA Directives indicate overall functional requirements. Of a total of approx. 14,000 valid standards and standards are available per year. Date approx. 2 600 in Norwegian, of which approx. 750 are European standards translated. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that we can also translate more standards into Norwegian in Norway, especially in areas where the standards complement the Norwegian legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1236	As the representative of Frøiland points out in his question, Norwegian participation in the internal market requires Norway to implement EU directives. Today’s directives often contain only essential health, environmental and safety requirements and refer to technical requirements. In Norway, several departments and underlying agencies are responsible for consumer and employee concerns, as well as the health, environmental and safety requirements of the authorities. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is responsible for maintaining an infrastructure for the development of standards, and over the budget of the Ministry for 2002 we allocate 24.3 million. kr for the standardisation work. Other departments are responsible for safeguarding their interests in the development of standards in their own disciplines. Active action is required, inter alia, in order to ensure the observance of spe­cific conditions in the standards. regulatory and professional authorities in Norway. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade’s commitment to standardisation shall focus on the maintenance of the infrastructure and on projects and actions which naturally support this objective. To the extent that there are funds within this framework that may be used for translation, it is for the standardisation bodies themselves to assess. We basically don't label any means specifically for translating standards. Most countries operate with foreign language standards, it is not a strange phenomenon. The problem is, as I see it, the cases where standards given under EU directives are not translated into Norwegian, but exist only in English, German or French. Thus, part of our technical legislation will be available in a foreign language. In such cases, the trade authorities have a responsibility to assess whether a standard should be translated into Norwegian. I want to make my government colleagues aware of this in writing. In addition, I would like to draw the attention of the Norwegian Standards Association to the issue raised by the representative of Frøiland on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1245	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I think we have a common interest in getting this better, especially in relation to the language. Obviously, I also see that the economic situation means that one cannot give priority to anything less than 24.3 million. kr, but it's actually small money we're talking about here, so the problem around this should be one that can solve. I have been informed that the national standardisation organisations in EU countries which use languages other than English, German and French receive support from the Commission per year. page of translation. Of course, this is not the case in Norway. This means that Norwegian companies very often have to control English in order to be able to adapt to these requirements provided for in Norwegian laws and regulations. Since these regulations are intended to ensure what the Council of State says, health, safety and the environment, it goes without saying that lack of knowledge in English can have serious consequences. In addition, it's important for our language.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1252	I expect the underlying agencies responsible for this to make a concrete assessment of the cost-benefit effect, and that the most relevant standards and directives will be translated. But as the question shows, there's a significant number that won't be. I also record the suggestion that if we had been EU members, national standardisation organisations would receive grants from the Commission to do so. It's probably a point of view that's right and that has a lot to do. I don't think there's any willingness to do what makes sense here. And as I said, I would like to draw attention to the issue both to the departments responsible for this, and to the Norwegian Standards Association, because if it is such that there are important directives with underlying regulations and standards that are not available in Norwegian, it is clear that we cannot live with such a risk of errors in important areas. In all probability, it's relatively small amounts of money, but I think the most important things are well taken care of. And let me say that when I look at minors sitting at the computer screen and playing games with English text and succeeding very much with it, I guess I also think that the overall level of competence in business has gradually been raised, and that you have a lot of control in English at least. So some big problem I guess it isn't, but possibly in some industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1259	I might agree with the Council of State that the problems may get smaller every now and then, but today there are a lot of problems around it. The sum that's allowed here is not that big. There should be no talk of economics here. I thought the Council of State had to take the necessary responsibility. One cannot leave everything to chance, but must point this out to the different departments and do what is absolutely necessary, so that one does not get into the situation that I have pointed out here, that it can have serious consequences if one has not been able to translate the regulations into Norwegian. I hope it's done, and if there's an economy on the basis of which a person can't do it, I ask that one at least increase this sum. I don't want to say that there are small amounts of money when there are millions of them, but at least there are small amounts of money in relation to how important it is to translate this into Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1266	I can promise the representative of Frøiland that I will take this seriously. We know how complicated many technical standards are, and we also know that many smaller companies do not have the technical English competence required in many of these cases, so I will take this seriously. I will definitely follow developments. To this extent, I could also think of addressing the issue with relevant organisations in the various industries to analyse and see how big the problem really is. And if that's a big problem, it's definitely something I'm responsible for. I have to take that responsibility, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1276	I want to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘As a general rule, the following categories of road users shall not pay tolls: passengers of all types of vehicles, bus passengers and public transport vehicles on a regular basis. However, derogations from the rule are provided for in the case of ferry relief projects. Will the Council of State consider amending the legislation so as not to allow public transport to be subject to tolls in the ferry relief connection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1285	As the question shows, the general rule is that passengers and public transport are not required to pay tolls. The question concerns only the exceptions. If necessary for the economics of the project and there is a local political agreement on it, the Stortinget has agreed that the payment of passengers and public transport may be made in the ferry termination connection. This also put the Senterpartie behind when the matter was up for treatment. Both passengers and public transport pay on the ferries. In my view, it would seem unreasonable if a holiday-relief project could not be realised because the State would waive the possibility of allowing these groups of road users to participate in the sub-financing of the project for a limited period of time if it was localised. I will deal with the connection Stortinget, including the representative of Överaas' own party, has given such an exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1294	I agree that the decision on toll collection must be anchored in local and regional decisions. It may be decisive for the realisation of mainland projects. It is supported by the Center Party when we deal with the exceptions, the Centre Party still supports them. But it may be a paradox that in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 in the case of the strengthening of public transport, the possibility of assessing payment is given when the holiday termination projects are running low, because it will provide additional taxes for the small number of road users. In some projects, such as: Krifast in More and Romesdal, the economy has our good, and Krifast will be paid down two years before planned. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State consider looking at the legislation so that public transport can be exempted from tolls during the toll period if the project proves to be more profitable than planned and the amortisation time is shorter than predicted?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1301	When assessing such projects, it is difficult to say what the economy will be like in practice. That's why we have to apply the principles before we start the project. In this context, I would like to focus on what has been done locally. And when you have this kind of exception and you want it locally, that's what I want to base when things come to my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1306	In More and Romesdal, commuters, businesses and ordinary travellers are penalised at extra cost in order to benefit from national road ferries. We who live in the different ferries are well watered with nightly highways, reduced take-offs and route routes. The difference between traveling collectively and using the private car is very small. I want to give the Council an example: in ferry zone 4, ten passenger cars with a discount of NOK 270 are paid, while a bus with 10 passengers pays NOK 250 including discounts. So there's a 20-dollar difference. I challenge the Council of State with a new question: Can the Council of State consider taking the initiative to allow passengers on ferries to travel free of charge and that it should only be paid for the car/vehicle?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1313	I don't want to change here or now the guidelines previously laid down by the Directorate of Roads. There will be elements that need to be considered on a case-by-case basis, and the guidelines are in any case based on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1321	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The parliamentary leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, says to the Namdals-Avisa on 22 December 2001: ‘It is not appropriate to set down the airport in Namsos.’ She continues: ‘It is a clear position in the Left Landfill Group that the Namsos airport should not be shut down and we expect the government as a college to follow up our clear message.’ Can the Council confirm that it is not appropriate to shut down Namsos Airport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1330	In examining the national transport plan 2002–2011, Stortinget concluded to assess the airport structure, inter alia: having regard to the significant reduction in travel time between several airports in recent years by new transport projects and offers. Following a mission from the Ministry, in the time of the government of Stoltenberg, the Swedish Aviation Agency has investigated and presented various aspects of its services on the regional airport network. Further operations and investments have been assessed on the basis of different standard requirements in the route offer and the technical and economic development options available for each aerodrome. Consideration of the regulatory requirements for design and equipment at aerodromes will be central. I am working to present to the Stortinget in spring 2002 a case on future airport structure, in order to keep the timetable in relation to the process of a new tendering period for regional air routes from 1 April 2003. Therefore, I do not yet have a definite idea of the status of named aerodromes, either in terms of investment or further operations. The air route network is a very important part of the transport offer in the districts, and I want to give county municipalities and other authorities the opportunity to comment before the matter is brought before the Stortinget. I noticed that there is great local involvement both for Namsos Airport and for other airports. The Ministry has already met with representatives from Namsos.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1341	I thank you for the answer, which I personally think is a neat answer. I fully understand that the Council of State will do a thorough job and come to Stortinget with a thoroughly prepared case. What is not good in this matter is that the parliamentary leader of the Left goes so hard into the locality and almost guarantees the future of one airport. She also says that of the five airports under review, the Left’s ‘guarantee’ applies only to Namsos and not to the others. It is, in my view, an eye-catching opinion of a parliamentary leader. My follow-up question to the Council of State will then be: Does the Council of State understand that when the parliamentary leader makes such a statement, it is not so strange that people in Namsos and Namdalen, who are happy and occupied with their airport, feel that the Government has now decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1350	I am a little uncertain about what was not good – whether it was that we wanted to mountain Namsos Airport, or whether it was that we went out with it. I have noticed that the whole of the Left's big group has come forward with a play on this matter. Of course, I appreciate the fact that the representative Hanssen is familiar with the way such matters are presented. It was, as I mentioned before, the previous government that asked for this investigation to be carried out, and I think it was right to ask for such an investigation. My goal, as I have said, is to present an overall assessment of this to Stortinget, so that all representatives at Stortinget can deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1357	To be more clear to the Council of State: what is not good is that the Left's parliamentary leader goes out and draws a conclusion on a matter that the Left's Council of State has not yet dealt with. In my opinion, it is a strange parliamentary practice that the parliamentary leader has concluded on a question that the Council of State in this Chamber now says she has not taken a position at all. And then you have to ask yourself: is it the parliamentary leader of the Left who expresses what will be the conclusion, or is it the Council of the Left who expresses what will be the conclusion? What I now think I can see is that you can't say that it was nice that Trine Skei Grande has now got Mount Namsos Airport, but that what she came up with from statements was a flop. And I think the Council of State has now confirmed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1362	The President would point out that 'flop' is not a good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1365	Now it's like the Left is a party that's very concerned with openness and debate, so I'm taking it as an engaged contribution to this debate that there's an explicit desire to keep Namsos Airport. We in our party have probably not intended to cover this type of debate, and I am, of course, as the Council of State in this area very much concerned that all opinions will come to light on this matter. When the matter is brought before the Stortinget, both the Left and the other parties on the Stortinget will be allowed to deal with it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1384	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1391	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defence shall be disposed of by approx. 2000 band wagons of type BV 202, and this is done by lifting them up to scrap iron. Would it not have been better if they had been sold, either whole or possibly as parts, to those who might need this type of vehicle, either in their work or in their spare time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1400	The defense is in front of its greatest change in recent times. The conversion entails major changes in the defence structure, including for the material used by the Defence Departments. As a result of the closure of departments at the same time as the creation of new ones, it is felt that there is a need to acquire new material, but also that there is a need to dispose of surplus materials. A type of material in surplus are belt wagons of type BV 202. It should therefore be disposed of approx. 2000 belt wagons of this type by the end of the year. Before the disposal was started last year, around April/May, several disposal methods were evaluated. For example, I can mention sales to NATO and PFP countries, offers of wagons to auxiliary organisations and public agencies, auctioned sales to private individuals and sales to buy-in companies for destruction. The conclusion based on these assessments was that the choice of wagons for auxiliary crafts, organisations, public establishments, etc., combined with sales to companies for subsequent scrapping, was preferable. From the defence side, contracts were concluded early in 2001, around January/February, with various scrapping companies for the destruction of belt wagons for the year 2001. New contracts shall be concluded for the current year. In last year’s contracts for scrapping, there was no opportunity to withdraw components for resale. However, this is a matter that will be re-examined when new contracts are to be concluded for scrapping. In parallel with the hijacking, the defense has received several applications for the take-over of belt wagons from private individuals and various organisations and public authorities. It should therefore be noted that the belt wagons are designed to develop in difficult terrain summer and winter. It can be assumed that any private buyer will use the vehicles off-road, which could lead to expectation of assistance from the Defence to the possible removal of broken wagons. Furthermore, the Ministry has placed considerable emphasis on environmental considerations and its desire to protect the nature of undesirable motor vehicle traffic. For this reason, it has been considered not to be desirable that private individuals be given the opportunity to purchase belt wagons from the Defence Agency. On the other hand, I have no objection that organisations, museums, relief corps, tourist associations, public offices and others who have the necessary permits for motor travel abroad can take over the vehicles at a more agreed price.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1415	I thank the Council of State for the answer, as something coming was the answer I wanted. Approximately 2000 BV 202 represents a significant value for many teams, organisations, etc. I have received a lot of enquiries from these after my question, and it may also be from private individuals, farmers and forest owners, from alpine hills, other businessmen, Red Cross, among others. Eidskog Red Cross, sports team, Volvo clubs, veteran car clubs, carjackers, collectors, etc., etc. In addition, it would also be useful to consider providing some of these vehicles as a kind of unhelp or in the case of natural disasters. Can the Council of State respond more specifically to how many vehicles can be rescued from the ‘steel’ axis and become useful and happy for others?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1426	It is clear that the State Council has to deal with the contracting, concluded contracts, and therefore I also mentioned quite specifically when these contracts were concluded last year. The contracts concluded for the scrapping of belt wagons in 2001 did not allow components to be withdrawn for resale. The defense has paid the scrapping companies with whom they have a contract, an amount for each vehicle that was destroyed. If these companies were to take out components for resale, this would have resulted in a higher cut price due to additional work. This was therefore not considered interesting at the time. The Ministry has now received enquiries asking for a change in this relationship. A review will therefore be carried out of the possibility of withdrawing components for resale for the scrapping contracts to be concluded for 2002. I am thinking of components for veteran cars and cars used in motorsports, e.g. engines and gearboxes. Furthermore, the Defence has spare parts and components in stock to be sold in order to obtain the best possible total result. I therefore understand that parts of the groups that the representative Bredvold wants to take into account can be taken into account within the answer I have now given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1435	I thank the Council of State once again for an answer that was even a little closer to what I wanted. It is clear that when the defense chops up good wagons like in this case, in some cases wagons that could have driven 27 miles, which I have been confirmed, and where the plastic is still sitting on the seats, this vehicle has a lot of value for use again. It is clear that when the defense does not see the possibility of income, and while calling for money, this gives wrong signals to large parts of Norway’s population. I hope the defense can still be as good as they have been, selling things that you don't need. These engines, which are Volvo B18 and Volvo B20 sports, are in demand and will provide a good price. There are a lot of carjacking companies waiting to get these. You pay a scrapping company somewhere between NOK 1000 and NOK 4000, I have heard, let's say NOK 2000 on average. If you multiply this by 2,000 cars, you get a considerable expense item instead of getting income.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1446	I can confirm that the representative Bredvold and I have the same motivation to give the Defence the highest possible income from the components we have to sell as a result of the restructuring process. Therefore, for the contracts to be concluded in the future, an overall assessment will be carried out as requested by Bredvold. But we must also, as we assessed last year, be allowed to take sufficient account of environmental policy assessments when concluding for the whole. So it's going to be an opportunity to get back to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1454	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Defence: «Change-over processes at work often cause uncertainty and consequently wear among employees. This in turn often leads to increased sick leave. The defence is a large workplace that is now in the largest conversion process ever. Could the Council of State report on the development of the defence staff in view of sick leave and what measures have been taken to optimise the process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1463	I would like to start by saying that I greatly appreciate the question. As the representative Leif Lund points out, the defense is in the process of making the most changes in recent times, and I appreciate the concern for uncertainty and wear that lies behind the question. There is a broad political consensus that significant reductions in the workforce are a prerequisite for success in the transition. To date, some 2 100 employees have received applications for voluntary leave, and so far no one has been cancelled as a result of the conversion process. The need for security is central. The personnel policy instruments put at the disposal of the Defence Agency to stimulate voluntary departures give me confidence that we will be able to achieve the 5 000 fewer annual defence works in the current period of the plan without using redundancies. Very many of those leaving the defence have the skills and skills required in the labour market. Both socio-economically and from a human resources perspective, it is very important that a maximum proportion of the personnel leaving the Defence continue to engage in productive activities, both within and outside the State. In the process of conversion, the positive participation and efforts of organisations are crucial for the results achieved. I am therefore dedicated to creating good meeting places between the employer and employees at all levels. It is important that conversion work is not primarily perceived as a burden, but contributes to triggering new creativity and to giving individual employees new opportunities and new challenges. The defence has established good contact and communication procedures with the personnel organisations and individuals in the conversion. I refer in particular to the Defence Resource Organisation, which will assist the Liner Organisation in the downkeep with advice, training and support both for individuals and for leaders at all levels. The statistics on sick leave in Defence show that, on average, for all categories of personnel, it is significantly lower than for the rest of society. The number material shows an increase of 1 pst. from 1999 to 2000, while statistics for the first quarter of 2000 and the first quarter of 2001 indicate a decrease. The number material is deficient. However, we have so far no indication that the switchover has affected sick leave statistics. Conversion creates uncertainty, both at the level of employees and in the community concerned. This uncertainty can hardly be eliminated, but we need to reduce it by differentiated measures. In order to provide the best possible decision-making basis to assess how the defence can take care of the personnel in a conversion phase, we are now conducting the study ‘Workplace as a Health Promotion Arena’ in cooperation between the Defence Sanity and the University of Oslo. The purpose of this study is to identify the characteristics of individual employees and at work that may be risk-making or protective in relation to mental health, well-being and well-being during the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1480	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that she is pleased with the question. The background to my question was first and foremost that during the budgetary procedure and consultation, the employees' representative organisations in the Defence Department found that there was a lack of statistical information when it came to sick leave. The answer from the Council of State also shows that the figures are deficient. So I hope the Council of State follows this closely, because after what she said in her answer, the absence in the Defense is atypical -- it's actually lower than in society, and they also have less problems than we do in society in terms of change and jobs. I hope that the Council of State will take along my wish that, at least when the conversion process is completed, we will have a way of registering sick leave in the Defence Department that is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1487	Yes, I am pleased with the representative Leif Lund that we have low sick leave in Defense. One of the reasons is that the defence employees have a significant degree of idealism associated with the work they do. And my goal is that the defense will still be an attractive, meaningful and challenging job for many thousands of employees. These will experience significant changes in their service when the Defence Corps will be reduced by about 25 pst. That means that we have to be better at prioritizing, but also better at removing unnecessary tasks. But that also means that we have to be more good at making sure that we have the right number base, and I'm going to do my part to make sure that the deficiencies we have today can be corrected as much as possible in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1492	I'm glad. Finally, I just want to ask if the defence employees will participate in what we are now going to do in terms of an inclusive working life and the processes that are there in relation to self-notification etc. Can the Council of State respond to me if the Defense joins this inclusive work-life operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1499	I can't answer that on the standing foot, but what I can say is that we have now said that health, environment and safety, including work environment issues related to migration and sick leave, should be a responsibility assigned to management at all levels of defence. We have also said that the local work environment committees, with the participation of employers and employees, should have the task of assisting in ensuring that the legal requirements for a fully sound working environment are met. At the central level, the main focus of the Swedish Defence Agency’s work environment committee is on the transition, and the sample has, among other things, agreed that the defence should appear as a priority in terms of health, environment and safety in the migration process. It should also provide guidance on how the defence acts on the question raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1507	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: «In connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 The conversion of defence in the period 2002-2005 was decided that 9 coastal forts and 6 underwater facilities should be placed in a mill bag/long-term storage for the mobilization defence. How does the Council interpret the concept of a mill bag/long-term storage with regard to the safekeeping of the 15 installations, including maintenance competence?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1516	Through the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 the Stortinget decided that nine artilleriforts and six underwater installations are to be ‘put into a mill bag’ or long-term storage. Int. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 the Defence Committee stated that: ‘The Committee assumes that today’s stationary coastal artillery will be continued until 2010, based on long-term storage in the mine bag for the mobilisation defence. This includes 6 paragraphs. 75 mm artillery fort, 3 pieces. 120 mm artillerifort, 3 controlled minefields and 3 torpedoes. The production of strength ceases.» The Ministry of Defence has chaired a working group to explore practical solutions for long-term storage, in line with the Storting decision. Based on the recommendations of the working group, I have asked the Defence Military Organisation and Defence Building to launch long-term storage of stationary coastal artillery facilities on the basis of two main requirements. Firstly, it shall be possible to regenerate the main weapons of the installations and, secondly, it shall be possible to regenerate the competence of the marine defence if necessary. The main weapons shall be stored without permanent deterioration until 2010 and monitored. Personnel of all categories of main weapon competence shall be identifiable and called up as necessary. This implies that the departments will no longer represent ordinary mobilisation departments and that all power generation will cease immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1528	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite correct that the Council of State has referred to and that is in the setting. I therefore think it is interesting to see the way the Ministry of Defence now interprets Storting's decision, because it says here that one should have a mobilization defense. And then I want to ask the Council of State a question about how long you accept that the facilities can be put into operational operation from the status they now have with the «mill bag» and the long-term stock status.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1537	It will probably vary over time how long it takes to summon the personnel who have the competence to serve the particular fort – if that was the question. It is possible that I have misunderstood – then we can rectify it. However, for all practical purposes, as the working group has now interpreted it and asked the Defence Military Organisation and Defence Building to take action based on it, it must be up to the Chief of Defence to assess the need for personnel to supervise the facilities and also the time it will take to call on the relevant personnel to operate these facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1544	My question did not really go to the personnel. There was more to the technical part, and then I also thought about the maintenance competence. Because what Stortinget has said is that this is about a mobilization defense. I'm familiar with the fact that within the Defence Department, we're now working to phase out some of these facilities that we're talking about here, in terms of mobilization. I can repeat the question to the Minister of Defence: How long is it acceptable to put these facilities into operation from their present status to be operational?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1551	I don't have a specific time indication on that. What has been the Ministry of Defence's mission to the Department of Defence's management has been to enable us to regenerate the main weapons of the facilities and that it will be possible to regenerate the maritime defence capabilities if necessary, and that this will be possible by the year 2010. With regard to the very specific question of how long it will take to mobilise the facilities, I do not have an answer to it on a standing footing. But I can pass that on to the Chief of Defense, in order to make further concrete progress on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-09.ana.ud1481e1558	Case No. So 1 is done.
