ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e88	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Morten Højlund, Heidi Sørensen, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Brother Yngve Rahm, who has been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harald Espelund, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e117	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e122	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e127	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting be interrupted, if necessary, for Stortingets Christmasunsj at 0 p.m. 13.45 and set again for the evening meeting at 2.30 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e145	It's been over 20 years since the accident outside Gamvik in Finnmark, and two investigation commissions have been trying to figure out what really happened this dramatic day, March 11, 1982. It is important for us to clarify this matter, not least in the interests of the relatives and those affected. New issues have emerged, and there are different interpretations of the observations made earlier. This is the main reason why you now want to have a further examination of this matter. That is why it is proposed that the Storting should ask the Presidency to appoint a new investigation commission to review both the circumstances of the accident itself and the handling of these investigations by the authorities. It is provided that all aspects of the case are illuminated. It is provided that the Commission to be set up is given full access to information in all areas. It is provided that the Commission is composed of people with broad experience and a high level of competence, of course, in all the relevant disciplines, and we assume that high-level legal competence will be included in this Commission. Furthermore, it is assumed that the composition and mandate will be drawn up in close contact with the parliamentary leaders, and – finally – that a reasonable deadline will be set for this work to be completed. Let me also say that it is not quite common that the Storting appoints such commissions. It is only in exceptional cases, when serious considerations warrant, that the Storting undertakes this task. The threshold for the Storting to assume such a role and task should and should be very high. The general rule is – and must be – that it is the government that appoints commissions to investigate management issues. But here we are facing a special case: two previous investigations in addition to the fact that there is a great deal of anxiety and uncertainty about this matter. So in order to get calm and get a qualified and good look at this, the committee has unanimously agreed that the Storting should appoint such a commission. In Document No: The 8 proposal is proposed to appoint two independent investigation commissions – one for the Mehamn accident, and the other for the Utvik Senior. In the case of ‘Development Seniors’, the Committee does not wish to propose that the Storting appoint such an investigation commission now, as a review commission of the Government has already been set up. We therefore do not consider it natural or topical to take such a grip now. Nevertheless, the size will follow that case as well, assuming that the Commission’s report is submitted to the Storting in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e160	I'm glad that now there will be a large majority, perhaps unanimous dissension, to appoint a new investigation commission linked to the tragic accident 20 years ago in Mehamn. In connection with the fact that for some time new information related to this matter has appeared, among other things. from people who stood up and told about things that were not previously commonly known, the government took a quick and, in my opinion, very good initiative to appoint an investigation commission. In the days that followed, however, a discussion developed as to whether the Stortinget or the Government should or should appoint such a commission. I am pleased that in this setting there is such a clear clarification that the general rule must be that it is the government that appoints review commissions, and that the entire committee is behind this. It is also quoted from the so-called Frøiland Committee, where it says: ‘As a general rule, the Storting should therefore only appoint review commissions where this appears to be absolutely necessary for overriding political reasons, or to clarify, confirm or reject serious public suspicions.’;» This is an important clarification, so that we can apply it even in the years that come with respect to other issues. In order not to get into the situation that such an important work would get a very bad start by getting a little unworthy political argument about whether it was the Stortinget or the Government that should and should appoint the Commission, we agreed in committee that it was reasonable in the situation as it was, that we should let this become a magnificent commission. I think it is very important that the Storting is very reluctant to start discussing the name in relation to who should be in this commission, and it does not add up to the setting. But at least I just want to give it advice when the Presidency is going to put together the Commission – in addition to what the case-rapporteur, Mr. Engretsen, said in relation to what competence should be in it – that it is imperative that the relatives be guaranteed participation in the Commission, so that they too can have confidence in the work being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e170	We in SV are very pleased that there will now be a large-scale investigation commission – not happy on their own behalf, but on behalf of the relatives, on behalf of the witnesses who say they have seen things they have not been believed in, and on behalf of Finnmark. Then we also fully agree that large-scale investigation commissions are not going to be something that happens often. But it also underlines that there is a great seriousness behind this particular case that the Storting appoints the investigation commission. There is no doubt that there has been a workshop here over many years. There's been a workshop with the relatives, with the witnesses, in Finnmark, and the rug we can also imagine can be the cold war. Both speakers who have spoken have said that new witnesses have emerged here. Therefore, it cannot be ruled out that the cause is different from that of the aviation commission. Nor can it be ruled out that this day was British Harrier aircraft east of the 24th longitude. It is therefore important that all aspects of this accident and its handling be examined, that the truth be revealed and that it be found in this round. I think that's incredibly important. It is therefore important to have a broad mandate, to assess on a free basis the conclusions reached by previous aviation commissions, and the possible – and I would stress this – role of the authorities. This is the case with the Development Senior case. We in SV thought that the same basis as for reviewing the Mehamn accident was also present here, and that the Stortinget should appoint a commission. But with a review commission already in progress, this would be both unblemished and a little bit of keeling. That's why I'm very happy that the committee says so clearly that it wants the report back, so that we can have a big debate about this, that's why the Storting is involved in that report, what it has to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e181	It is a new move that the Storting itself appoints review commissions. Usually, it's a government task. The Christian People's Party is in agreement with the assessments in the Frøiland Committee, which many have also discussed here, that the threshold for the Storting to set down an investigation commission is high, and that one should insist that it is the government that appoints commissions to investigate matters in the administration. The Christian People's Party believes that it was a commendable initiative that was taken by the Government to so quickly appoint a review commission, immediately after the new headlines in the media about Mehamn-ulukka. It indicates that she took the matter seriously and wanted to present the real truth in this matter. For the Christian People's Party, on the other hand, it is not the most important who has seen down a commission to review the Mehamn-Ulukka. The most important thing for us is that this Commission must have confidence in the population. When the goal of the Commission is to find the truth behind such a debated aviation tragedy, the Commission is entirely dependent on having confidence. This Commission shall, inter alia: See if there was an imminent jet — fighter — unwarranted or human failure that caused an accident. There may be no new knowledge or new truths, but if a dispute had already arisen about the creation, which has been discussed here, this Commission would have a very bad start, and that would be reason to doubt the Commission's willingness to seek the truth in such a difficult and tragic case. Two Air Operator Commissions have not been able to create any peace of mind that the cause of the accident has been found. The Christian People's Party therefore hopes that the new examination will arrive at a result that will increase confidence and remove the doubt that has affected the situation for over 20 years. In that respect, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Defence Chief Frisvold has lifted the obligations of defence personnel in Mehamn-saka. The Christian People's Party has also noticed that Onkøe will put his expertise at the disposal of the investigation. The term of office of the Presidency shall now be drawn up and the members of the Commission shall be chosen. The Christian People's Party hopes that the mandate and the composition will be such that it will not be trusted. The Christian People's Party will not comment here on the composition further, just the lines below the central one in that the persons mentioned are independent, and that they have the necessary integrity. It's not a decision who names the Commission, whether it's the Government or the Storting. The decision is who is in such a commission. When it comes to the case of Development Senior, a commission is already listed by the Government, and he's doing his work. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is not necessary to set up a new investigation commission for this accident. When the report of this Commission is ready, it must – as has been said here before – be presented to the Stortinget as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e192	I agree with the previous speakers who have said that it is only exceptional that the Storting should appoint commissions of this kind. I am therefore very pleased that a unanimous committee endorses Document No. The 8 proposal proposes that the Storting should investigate the Mehamn accident. This isn't any accident. It's, as has also been said by previous speakers, over 20 years since this accident happened. But despite the long period of time that has passed, there has never been any peace of mind about the course of events in this matter. It is therefore not only necessary to identify the cause of the accident. The main reason is that the Government is responsible for the investigation, by means of commissions to investigate the cause. However, it is essential to clarify to the greatest extent the handling of these cases by the authorities – not only the Mehamn case, but also the case of the Development Senior. The responsibility is that, in the light of the information that has been provided, only the Storting can take, and I am therefore pleased that there has been a unanimous vote on this. In relation to the ‘Development Senior’ case, I have absolutely no reason to doubt that the Commission appointed by the Government will do what is possible to arrive at the cause of the loss. In my view, when it was proposed that the Stortinget should also appoint a separate investigation commission in the ‘Evelopment Senior’ case, there is in no way any mistrust of the Government’s work in relation to finding the cause. But also in this case, it is unfortunately a fact that, in my opinion, the conclusion reached by the first investigation committee cannot be put to the vote. Information has also appeared in the latest to suggest that the place where the accident occurred is a long way from what the first Commission came up to – an accident site that was otherwise adjusted quite shortly after the Commission had submitted its report when they left on their own initiative the wrecks were found from the boat. This also suggests that the handling of this matter by the authorities should be thoroughly investigated. I assume that the Ministry of Justice does so, and I also assume that the Storting will look carefully at this matter when it has to come to Stortinget. It is essential, as previous speakers have said, that the Commission now to be appointed is fully involved in the work and has a capacity to ensure that when it finishes its work, no matter what kind of result is obtained, and what kind of conclusion the work must give, it is clear to give rest to an inconspicuous matter, where there has been uncertainty over too long a period of time, both in relation to the relatives and in relation to the many witnesses who have never been able to settle on the outcome of the case in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e203	When the Progress Party is also involved in this unanimous vote, it is primarily because we want peace around the Mehamn accident. We want a Commission to go so thoroughly to work and be so broadly structured that everyone can have confidence in the result that eventually had to come out of the work. There have already been two commissions who have worked on this matter. Thorough studies have been carried out and lots of material are therefore available. But it has become so that large groups do not have confidence in the conclusions that have been reached. It is in order for everyone to have confidence that the final answer has been found, that we also believe that a new Commission is necessary. It also has the connection that the government made known that it intended to appoint a commission. When it became necessary for the Storting to do this instead of the Government, it was because some people indicated that one would not have confidence in the conclusions of a government-appointed commission, and then, of course, that work would have been stillborn. There has been a demand for the Storting to ensure that there is a reduction in an independent and wide-ranging complex commission, and to help, if possible, to bring peace and tranquillity around this accident, we are also involved. It is important that the general population has confidence in the work being done and the conclusion is reached. I am sure that the Presidency in its work on mandate and composition will do what is necessary to ensure that this becomes a Commission of full stamina and independence, so that everyone can have confidence in what emerges. For the second part of Document No: The 8th proposal, on ‘Developing Seniors’, would seem to us to be a mistrust of the Commission at work if the Stortinge were to take the initiative of another Commission at that time. We believe it is appropriate and necessary to await the work of the Commission and are therefore prepared to do so in an appropriate manner for the Storting. It is first the time, if any, to consider the substance of the second part of Document No. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1338]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e232	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e239	Document No 8:122 for 2001-2002 addresses the issue of strengthening animal protection through stronger popular participation and co-responsibility where conflict arises due to damage and loss caused by peaceful predators. The conflict between grazing buffalo and predators is a well-known issue for the Committee. In its work on this Document, the Committee shall: The 8th proposal focused on addressing a major communication on animal husbandry and welfare over the next year and also on the provision of a communication on predatory wildlife policy. In the examination of these two messages, the whole of the predatory game policy and measures to reduce the level of conflict between grazing animals and predators will be addressed, as the Committee has been concerned about. A minority in the Committee, the Party of Advances and the Centre, believe that the issue of stronger popular participation in order to strengthen the protection of animals raised in Document No. The 8th proposal should be addressed in the communication on animal husbandry and welfare. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the SV, refers to letters from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, stating that the issue of animal welfare will be addressed in the Animal husbandry and animal welfare reports, but that the issue of organisation, delegation of powers, popular participation, etc. will be dealt with and discussed in the notified communication on predatory policy. With slightly different backgrounds, an overall committee recommends that Document No. 8:122 is annexed to the Protocol for 2001 to 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e252	Document No 8:122 aims at strengthening animal protection through popular governance. This is a very comprehensive matter. The centre party is pleased that the main message on animal husbandry and welfare has now been submitted as planned. Nor should there be any reason to doubt that the roll-call notification of the predatory game policy will also be submitted within the prescribed deadline next autumn. The conflicts between predators and grazing animals in the same area cannot really be resolved without one party having to be de-prioritized. On Friday's big news from the Government, it can be read as if the grazing animals should preferably give way. That debate shall not be held today. The processing of the coming wild game message shall also not be foreshadowed. But unfortunately, I do not feel completely safe and I am not so optimistic about what is coming in the message, because it is becoming very special when, in his letter to the Committee on Energy and the Environment on 29 October, the Minister for the Environment calls it ‘a big message on the conservation of wild birds in Norwegian nature’. The conservation of predatory game, at least from the point of view of many districts, becomes an overly narrow approach. I expect the Ministry of the Environment to really see it this way. In the predatory game debate, losses due to predatory game are often almost trivialized because there are also major losses for other reasons. The report on animal husbandry and animal welfare reports that in the most vulnerable areas of the country, between 60 and 80 psts are at peace. of the losses, and it's actually the yerven that's been the biggest damage in the last few years. The former letter from the Council of State to the Committee states: ‘... it is unclear on what basis the proposers may claim that ‘the real number of wild game-killed fees is about 50,000 animals’.’» The answer is simple. There are 50000 animals for which compensation is sought every year. That it only accepts payment for 60 pst. is another thing. We all probably see that large losses of animals on pasture and the sufferings that often follow are very sad. In various ways, one tries to find proposals for changes in the administration that can improve the situation. Document No 8:122 being treated today is such an attempt. Hopefully, there will be a lot of input to strengthen animal protection. Those of us who think it is a poor solution that predators should be the first choice in significant areas of the country, probably always have measures to propose that are both reasonable and more effective to benefit animal welfare and the use of grazing resources. But we still realize that this isn't just easy. The Centre Party accepts that this Document No. The 8th proposal is annexed to the Protocol in view of the fullness of the theme on the agenda attached to St.meld.No.12 for 2002-2003. This will be rational, and the fact that several proposals will be dealt with together will provide the most thorough assessment of the different aspects of the conflict associated with outreach. But it's urgent. Particular attention needs to be paid to ensuring optimum clarification before the upcoming grazing season. As the situation is now, it cannot continue. It is a heavy burden for community, for grazing animals and predators, and – I almost kept on saying – also for some politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1338]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e292	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that what should appear on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e301	Although in Norway there is a very high level of medical coverage compared to other countries, there are still examples of lack of medicine. There may therefore be good reason to ensure that as many doctors as possible exercise their profession. The proposal for a certain embellishment of the requirements to keep the licence for doctors who have reached the age of 75 may also mean something in such a context, while the elderly doctor’s own wishes should be more readily met. The majority in the Committee, but probably not in the Stortinget, is in favour of the requirement that after 75 years of age a doctor must have an activity which should not be less than the equivalent of 20 pst. position, should be significantly enhanced. The regulations also stress that this activity should be patient-oriented. An overall committee agrees that a check is to be carried out on doctors of 75 years of age in accordance with the provisions of the Health Care Act. This will in practice require doctors over 75 years of age who wish to keep the licence to apply for it and be assessed at appropriate intervals in order to ensure that both health and professional conditions are in place to operate properly. Therefore, the majority have not proposed changes in current time intervals, which are two years for doctors between 75 and 80 years of age and one year for doctors over 80 years of age. Whether these are the absolutely ideal time intervals, the Committee does not consider that. Furthermore, the majority believe that the nature of the work, whether in the field of research, patient treatment, supervisory work, etc., should not be decisive in maintaining the licence for a doctor over 75 years. I believe that older doctors can be a very important professional resource. Their knowledge, experience and personal qualities can be of great importance, not least in meeting older people. Older people may experience that the elderly doctor is better able to listen, and show the necessary patience in the meeting between the doctor and the patient, which also provides greater safety in the medical-patient relationship. It may also be important for this reason to make use of the freedom of exemption for doctors who wish to do so and who are able to do their medical work. I would like to stress that, of course, one should not entirely ignore the fact that the size of the business should be certain, but this criterion should be downgraded in practice, so that one does not operate at a fixed limit. It must be possible to use discretion to allow older doctors who wish to carry out research, to be supervisors of hospitals, etc. to retain the licence. Of course, the business must be in a position to maintain adequate contact with the subject over time. But it should not be the case that you have to go up in the job size as soon as you pass 75 years. I believe, like the rest of the majority of the committee, that it should be the county doctor who should be empowered to deal with dispensation applications for doctors over 75 years of age, and not as now, the State Authorisation Office. This ensures better that the person to be assessed is assessed in direct contact with the approval authority and its helper, and not through a paper-based meeting between the applicant and the authorisation authority. In summary, I believe that the nature and extent of the doctor's work should not be essential in order to maintain the licence after 75 years of age. The county doctor shall be empowered to evaluate such applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e327	For the last 21 years, our country has had a special rule of law on the cancellation of licensing to perform medical activities for doctors over 75 years of age. As far as we know, only Luxembourg throughout Europe has similar legislation and legislation in this field. The regulations in force and the way in which they have been enforced have significantly contributed to the fact that a large number of the 951 doctors over 75 years of age in today’s Norway have been deprived of the right to the occupation for which they have been trained. I do not conceal that I am very disappointed that the majority in the present position is going to change the curious restriction on the maintenance of medical licences for elderly doctors over 75 years of age. It is also shocking to read the letter from the Minister of Health to the representative of Magne Aarøen, dated 29 November, where the Minister of Health states that, in his opinion, the legislation is flexible enough to take care of the concerns behind Document No. The 8:115 proposal. Yeah, that's the Minister of Health's opinion. The approx. 900 elderly doctors over 75 years of age in Norway have a completely different view of the legislation in force, where one can only obtain a licence by a formidable bureaucracy and whose business one intends to perform in patient treatment is a minimum of 20 pst. position. Most doctors at that age don't want a 20 pst. job, but would like to be able to help elderly former patients, neighbours, friends, family members in emergency situations. We all agree that doctors over and under 75 years of age must at all times be up - to - date with the service they are to perform. That doesn't mean you have to work at least 20 pst. position to be up-to-date in different disciplines. I dare then ask the Minister of Health: What about those doctors who do not normally work in patient-oriented work – researchers, politicians and others – who only have a guest role as medical doctors or who nurse a few short summer weeks? Are these controlled if they are professionally updated at all times? I'm afraid that the majority's rejection of the minority's proposals in the present position is an expression of an attitude towards older people that we unfortunately see in many contexts in our society today. The limitation imposed by the legislation to the practice of the medical profession after age 75 feels both offensive and unreasonable for a significant number of older doctors who have had a flawless professional career and who are still able to help their patients. The real justification given by the Minister of Health to be negative about the proposal for a more liberal attitude towards job breaks and licensing after age 75 is due to the special situation of the Minister of Health and his vigilance in limiting the increase in the reimbursement payment from the National Agency. There is still a shortage of doctors in Norway, and it should also be in the interests of the Minister of Health to make maximum use of the treatment capacity of older doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e340	After following this matter closely, it has increasingly come as a surprise to me. I'm a doctor myself, but I don't think it's easy to see a professional group being cared for with such care and intensity by many representatives on the Stortinget as this particular profession. Because it is not common for different occupational groups to be active when they are 70 years old – and we are not talking about 70 years old here, but about 75 years old. If you compare with different occupational groups, for example teachers, you'll see that most teachers are out of the profession before the age of 70, most of them may be down to 60. Officer of the Defense Department has a 60-year-old age limit. We see that civil aviation pilots often end in the middle of the 50s, and the fighter pilots in the 40s. We're talking here about a profession, the medical profession, which compared to a lot of professions maybe is the more demanding, especially if you're going to be actively involved in medical work or have patients in a nursing home, for example, as a supervisor. If there are some tasks you want to ensure quality today, these are — look at new opportunities for specialities in order to get a higher quality of service and provide it with more valuable content. There is no desauvure of a person over 75 years of age to say that today's professional life is so demanding, requires so much renewal of knowledge, that it is actually not reasonable to expect to be able to cope with it at the age of 80. I see for myself – I have my background as a general practitioner – that there is a requirement for general practitioners to operate at least 50 pst. on a curative basis, otherwise the speciality of general practice cannot be maintained. I can't do that when I'm sitting on the Stortinget, I find that quite reasonable. Then to argue very actively that people over 75 years of age who are in less than 20 pst. work, however, will be allowed to practise with a licence, amazes me. Is that what we should do in terms of health care, is look at the quality of the services performed and how it can be ensured in a better way. Making this mistake of ensuring a quality with a lack of respect for human dignity is all the other way around, because the human dignity to be guaranteed here is, of course, the patient’s – the patients to be treated – the population to be guaranteed the quality of services. The fact that individuals over 75 years of age, as I would assume they will be very few, should feel that they have to give a medical certificate every two years, I have trouble understanding. The fact that you also require that you actually have to be so professionally active that you ensure that you get a renewal of your knowledge in order to practice, I also have a lot of problems to understand. On the other hand, I would have been particularly concerned if it had been supported by only a minority in this case today, and you had to lower the requirements for medical personnel to do work in the Norwegian population, at a time when the medical density has never been greater. It is not the case that it is absolutely necessary for us to open up new groups of professionals on the medical side in order to cope with medical coverage. On the contrary, we see with active measures among occupational doctors that we can get a full medical coverage. In this respect, the quality of services needs to be maintained in order to ensure the proper functioning of the population, and not the opposite way, as the other parties here, other than the government parties and the SV, call for. I am referring to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e353	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e356	Older people are and can be an important and good resource. They have a lot of knowledge, and they have a lot of experience. That experience can often be useful to take advantage of in society beyond the age of 75. What is important in the middle of this debate, however, is to remember that it is the patient’s safety and the treatment of the patient that is at the centre. The doctors have a very special profession, where their knowledge and actions can mean life or death in given situations. Therefore, it is important that their competence is secured. I have understood it on the proposaler that there is the practice of the law of the plurality in the committee, among others. is out to watch. I don't mind. I also believe that the Minister of Health should, according to the debate today, seek to enter into the practice and assess whether it is appropriate and how it should be, and whether the practice can to some extent be remedied in relation to the work for which a licence is applied for. At one point there is no mistake that the majority of the committee claims, i.e. that there is only paper processing when the State Authorization Office is to process an authorisation. Today it is the county doctor who is closest to the doctor who is applying for a licence, who recommends it to the authorization office. And the county doctor will in any case present here today be the one who really has the deciding word if he can extend the license and, if necessary, how long. There are already guards in the law today. The representative Alvheim more than imagines that what's going to be the multiple here in the hall is an expression of a negative attitude, a negative human vision, to the elderly. I found it sad that such unworthy claims were made in such a debate. I believe that both the majority and the minority have a positive view of the elderly, and that the difference in vision in this matter has nothing to do with the view of older people. It would be good if we could leave such insinuations against each other in a case that goes more into the practical, on how to arrange a medical license. With these few words, I will give my connection to the minority setting. I would also like to challenge the Minister of Health to elaborate more on the practice of the law, as it is a key point in the arguments of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e371	Today, Norway has less than 1000 doctors over 75 years of age, some of whom could benefit from more active service than they are. Document No 8:115 addresses this problem and tries to sketch out a scheme for elderly doctors over 75 years of age «which is capable of carrying out its profession in a sound manner, irrespective of the extent or nature of its activities». I think this is an important matter for a group that is clearly a resource for us. Whether the work they carry out is patient treatment, whether it is in the field of research or, where appropriate, in the field of supervision, this is important where this work is carried out, especially today where we still have a lack of medicine in Norway. The extent of the work is some of the starting point here. The scope of the work shall not be decisive for the ability or otherwise of a doctor over 75 years of age to perform his or her medical practice. Now the job vacancy is at least 20 p.m., and that means that some doctors who are 75 years of age or older actually have to go into the job vacancies in order to carry out their work further. That's what maybe the most crazy thing about the system we have today. I agree that the licence must be carefully assessed within appropriate timescales, and possibly this assessment and its timescale should be more frequent than at present. But I think it is important that the county doctor is the person who has the real work and responsibility for this, and that a person can carry out a licensing process and possibly approval on a case-by-case basis through personal contact and assessment. Good and systematic monitoring must be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Health Care Professional Act for the safety of the activities of health professionals. I believe it is entirely right to ease the requirement of minimum size of the profession. We have a lack of play, as I said before. This is a good use of the important professional resource in the healthcare system that doctors are and that is currently lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e385	Before the Ministerial Council Dagfinn Højbrätten gets the floor, the president would point out that the allocated speaking time for the Christian People's Party as a group was 5 minutes, and after all the sun brands, the Council of State Dagfinn Højbrätten would now have 3 minutes. The President will nevertheless propose that the Council of State should have a speaking time of five minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e388	I thank you for your attendance! First, let me say that the legislation governing the granting of licences to health professionals over 75 has been given for the purpose of ensuring the safety and quality of healthcare for patients, as well as maintaining the confidence of citizens in health professionals and healthcare. These are important considerations that I, as Minister of Health, am very concerned about. We must strive to achieve these objectives at all times. Section 54 of the Health Care Act states that when health professionals reach the age of 75, authorisation falls away. The professional title may continue to be used. Furthermore, it is apparent from the provision that although authorisation is automatically withdrawn at the age of 75, licences may nevertheless be granted under certain conditions. The Health Personnel Act has its own provision on licensing in Section 49. What characterises a licence is that it can be limited on time, to a specific position, to certain types of health work or otherwise. This provision allows for the provision of regulations, which have been used in the establishment of a licence requirement for health professionals, including those over 75 years of age. In this case, particular attention has been paid to the provision in the regulation that, when granting a licence, the extent of the patient-oriented activity that the healthcare professional intends to carry out is crucial. The general rule is that the volume should not be less than 20 pst. position. It has been manufactured as if everyone applying for a licence has to comply with this requirement. Let me make it clear that 20 pst is not required. position with patient-oriented activities in all applications for a licence. Some types of business will not involve patient contact in a patient-treatment relationship. The fact that no patient-oriented activities are required for all types of licences is apparent from the fact that the regulation states: ‘When granting a licence, the suitability of the applicant shall be assessed in relation to the activities for which a licence has been applied for.’;» Activities may be much different from patient-oriented activities, for example: may be mentioned as a medical expert, medical adviser and student counsellor. Nor is it an absolute requirement for 20 pst. position in the case of patient-oriented activities. This is demonstrated by the fact that the regulation states: «The activity should not be less than the corresponding 20 % position.» In other words, a concrete assessment must be made where the 20 pst. requirement is to be understood as an indicative standard, not an absolute requirement. I want to gain experience in the practice of the regulation at this point and assess whether there is a need to clarify this guidance status further. However, the Health Care Professional Act imposes a number of other requirements on health professionals with authorisation, licensing and specialist authorisation. The most important thing is the requirement to provide professionally sound and prudent assistance, the so-called safety requirement. This is a requirement for individual health professionals to assess their own professional activity at all times. Furthermore, private activities are required to be notified to the regional authority and, in the case of insurance, to be guaranteed liability that may arise against the patient. It has also been asked whether it is appropriate for one office to assess and, where appropriate, to grant a licence to all applicants for it. It has been suggested that the individual county doctor should be able to do this rather, in particular on the grounds that the county doctors have a closer knowledge of applicants from their own county. I think that would be a retreat and a poor solution – a retreat because that was partly the way it was before the new Health Care Act came into force, and because treatment by 19 county doctors could lead to different assessments and thus discrimination around the country. The system of an office ensures equal treatment, efficiency and administrative simplification. The fact that the State Medical Professionals' Office, which is the office dealing with this type of case, obtains the opinion of the individual county doctor, there is nothing in the way of that, and in many cases it will be natural. The need for such opinions will depend on the type of activity for which a licence has been applied for. I see from this point of view that the regulation on the licensing of health professionals, including their licences over 75 years of age, is flexible enough to take care of the concerns they are going to have with the applicants. At the same time, the requirement to ensure that health professionals wishing to operate after 75 years of age are fit to carry out the work for which they have applied for a licence. But I want to gain experience in the practice, as I have notified, and assess whether there is a need to clarify the indicative status of the 20 pst requirement in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e426	I am referring to the fact that the comments of the government parties argue that the reasons behind this proposal can be taken into account within the current law and regulation – the Council of State was to some extent also involved. But does the Council of State have the impression that enforcement practice shows that a actually flexible attitude towards both the scope and the nature of the service? So I want to challenge the state council a little bit more on this with the county doctor. The representative of Magne Aarøen said in his speech that the county doctor is the one who really has the decisive word. If that's the case, I think there might be reason to consider whether for these doctors it should not be appropriate and at least bureaucratic that it was actually the county doctor who had the formal decision. I have respect for what the Health Minister says about us having had a scheme for a short time, and that it can be a good arrangement, but I still want the Minister of Health to explain in more detail why it is so much more favourable that the State Authorization Office has exactly this system attached to the elderly doctors, if it is such that the county doctor does the job in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e433	I believe that this is a good cover for the statement that the current regulation is flexible enough to take account of the intentions behind the proposal by the proposers – but it must also be the opinion of the proposers. I'm justifying that claim to 20 pst. the position is an indicative standard and that there is a full opportunity for the Agency to obtain the opinion of the county doctors. These are the two main points mentioned by the minority in the Committee. As regards the assessment of practice, I have a quantitative picture of this showing that in 2001, after it took over this responsibility, the Authorization Office received 25 applications for a medical licence over 75 years – 20 were granted a licence, 5 were refused. Per. On 1 November of this year, the Authorisation Office has dealt with 90 applications from doctors over 75 years of age, of which 50 have been granted a licence. In the light of what I have said in my main post, I will gain experience in the practice of the regulation, also of a more qualitative nature, in order to assess whether there is a need to clarify the requirement of 20 pst. position as an indicative standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e440	Based on the Minister of Health's last answer, I understood that the number of applicants over 75 years of age in terms of licensing remains increasing, and that for the current year until November it was about. 90 who had applied for, but only 50 who had received, license. Can the Minister of Health here and now broadly state what was the reason for the rejection for those who did not receive it? Had something with 20 pst. position to make, or didn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e445	It's not like the numbers I referred to, but it shows that there's an increasing flow of applications. I referred to figures from the State Authorization Office from they got this responsibility in August 2001, so that the figures from 2001 are from the last months of the year and thus naturally lower than the figures for 2002 until 1 November. But when that's said, I haven't considered a qualitative assessment of these applications. I have done a quantitative summary of these and therefore cannot answer the question that the representative Alvheim is now asking. But it's what I've said, that we want to make such an assessment of practice, especially in relation to the requirement of 20 pst. the position is perceived to be more rigid than those who have given the regulation have actually meant. I'll follow up immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e455	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e460	I think that the debate has been so far clarifying in relation to what has also been our position on this matter, namely that today's legislation is flexible enough initially, but that there may be a need for a review of the practice to see whether it is good enough, even though it now turns out through the statement made by the Minister of Health that the majority of the applications being promoted are being accepted. However, it is important to stress in this case that the essential element must be the safety and security of patients for a good offer, and that there is a professional soundness in what is done. The fact that a person has an age requirement is, as many people have, not unique to this profession. For other occupational groups, these age requirements are often lower. For example, a mackerel fisherman will automatically lose his quota at the age of 70, and a professional driver will also lose his certificate at a relatively young age from a safety point of view. In that case, it must also be in particular with regard to this profession, where one's assessments and actions have a high impact on the health, life and safety of others, that one has a requirement of soundness. That's why it's very good that one in the code has an opportunity for an individual assessment and an opening in relation to it, because it's quite obvious that in a situation where we're older and older, and where we're healthier and fresher even when we're older, it's going to be a big individual difference compared to the opportunities you have to follow up your profession in spite of an old age. That is why I am very pleased with the feedback given by the Minister for Health in the debate that he will go through the legislation to see if this is properly practiced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e465	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1338]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e481	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e486	Bishop Desmond Tutu has written a book entitled "No Future Without Forgiveness". Both Nelson Mandela and Desmond Tutu have shown admirable courage and attitude by their words, actions, and leadership. The future of South Africa lies in the thinking of these people, not in revenge and return to what was, just that it should now be the colored ones who would suppress the whites. On the contrary, the future is positively built by having roots in the past and looking forward. Pasts shall not be forgotten or tarnished, but neither shall they make us paralysed. Also in South Africa, there have been people who have asked for forgiveness for the atrocities of the apartheid system, but there has been a long way between these people. Most striking has been the greatness and wisdom expressed by the people of Mandela and Tutu. They have proclaimed forgiveness as a programme for building a different and better future. No future without forgiveness. Some of the same thinking should apply in the case of the Stortinget to decide on the war children and the history of which many tell. But here it is as a starting point that the Greatness on behalf of the people extends its hand. The Judicial Committee has given a unanimous opinion on the matter of the preparation of a national war child settlement. We know that many children with Norwegian mother and German or Austrian father, so-called war children, have been exposed to words and actions that have negatively affected growth – yes, for some people also adult life. If it is possible to apologize on behalf of some, the Justice Committee, by setting up the war children, apologizes for the wrong and the pain they have caused through life as a result of being war children. Many of the war children's stories about childhood and childhood experiences make a strong impression and remind us that we humans can be incredibly ugly to each other. The Justice Committee is strongly opposed to the injustice committed against the war children. The Committee has also understood the intention behind the proposal by Mr Meltveit Kleppa for the appointment of a War Children's Commission to take a moral, economic and final settlement of the injustice experienced by many war children. However, the Committee is taking a step forward in order to avoid undue delay in settlement. That is why we are skipping the Commission and asking the Government directly to consider alternative proposals for compensation schemes, as compensation for the war children who have suffered special suffering, loss and unfairness as a result of being war children. Proposals shall be submitted to the Storting as soon as possible and preferably during 2003. This means that no amount has been clarified now, nor which individuals should be able to be compensated in the form of money. The Committee stresses that being a war child in itself is not negative. Having a mother who is Norwegian and a father who is German is nothing negative. But it's that human dignity has been downgraded, which means that you've come into a special situation. The human value of a war child is equal to anyone else's, inviolable and infinite. Many war children also have positive experiences. They cannot show that they have had a difficult growth because of their background. They do not want to have any attention on what is behind, nor do they want this to be a matter for the family. That has to be respected. We in the committee have also received enquiries from other people who feel that war children are being replaced. What about us, say someone, who lost our fathers just because of the mother or father of the war children--or both? Isn't it true that we should get compensation? That is not what we should take a stand on in this matter. The size and our society have other arrangements that are to a large extent designed to capture these details. I am thinking about the cheap compensation scheme and other schemes that will help them in the specific situation they might be in. But it is important now for Stortinget to stress that the injustice committed in our society towards this group of people that we treat through this setting here today, we must correct. The size of the scale extends a hand, but we don't define the content of the final result. We ask the Government to involve the organisations of the war children in the design of the compensation scheme. We believe that this is essential, so that there can always be a dialogue that makes the government not operate side by side, but in interaction with war children's organizations. We also ask that research on the growing-up relationships of war children continue. There is much we can learn and we can distance ourselves from, so that not a new generation commits the same unfairness, the same actions of a negative nature, that others have committed before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e512	In the work on this matter – at least some members of the Judicial Committee – have sometimes been able to ask themselves the question: Does it give any weight to adopt a complaint or an apology in this room and in other rooms? If the complaint and the apology stand alone and it just stays with this, I think it's an empty decision. Therefore, the decision made by the Storting today, after all the sun tags unanimously, must, above all, mean the beginning of a complaint and an apology to the group of people whom we have chosen to call war children. It is quite obvious — through research, but also through stories from individuals both in legal context, in the media, and also directly to us — that such an excuse is most appropriate. It is so important that it is a pleasure that the Justice Committee, at the job done by the rapporteur, has been able to gather around some premises for the decision that is being taken today. Firstly, it was hoped that this decision and this complaint and the apology would be unanimous. Such a decision was to be brought together. The second is that it should happen quickly. That is why the Judicial Committee has in many ways backed up the proposal of the proposer, by ignoring the issue of the Commission and going straight to a clear call for the Government on the issue of a compensation scheme. The third element of the decision, and as I think there is reason to clarify, is first and foremost – and there are many ways between the lines – that the economy, by such a settlement, will never be able to meet the needs of this group of people. Many have contacted us, and rightly so, in view of the fact that a compensation settlement in itself will not solve this. I'm saying this because I don't think we're going to be blind to the fact that it's the compensation itself and the heads that will count in such a settlement. It could be important, and it is important together with the decision taken here today and with the premises for the decision of the Justice Committee. But it's most important only if we get it together with a signal out to all the people who are moving outside this house, and who in many ways may have been involved, who have been familiar with the injustice that many war children have suffered, so that you get a kind of consciousness of opinion also in relation to wanting to take such a settlement as the Storting today marks. For it is not easy, nor should it be easy, to apologize for the wrong that has happened and is happening, both to the children of war and to other groups. These are things we have to work with. The decision that we are making here today is clearly a step in the right direction. Therefore, this Decision has dimensions in addition to the purely economic task now entrusted to the Government. This does not prevent the task from being intrusive. It has been stressed in this process by the Workers' Party that the Government should return as soon as possible. Time goes by, people age, people die. The settlement would lose its effect if we now had to wait a very long time for such a settlement. When it comes to the issue of the economy in this, at least I see for my part that there is reason to point out that next to getting a quick and smooth system that can be easily practiced, we should clearly look to, as a sort of template in relation to these settlements, the settlements that have been, among other things. to groups that have previously been subject to cheap substitute schemes. There might be a proper way to solve these problems. Finally, it would be natural to point out that such a settlement that is now being sought, would never be able to get any value if we did not take the lessons contained in this, with us into the future, also toward other groups. It is high time to notice the collective responsibility that we all have if someone had done something wrong. The more severe the reaction and the penalty becomes against the person or group of people who should have done something wrong, and the tougher the condemnation becomes, the more important it is to take care of all those who are affected unjustly, and all those who are hit hardest, those who have not done anything wrong, perhaps especially the children. It is a lesson to take away from us justice politicians at a time when we are increasingly using tougher instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e532	I find reason to congratulate the Justice Committee on a very good work in a difficult but important matter. It would mean a great deal for those involved, for the Committee to preside over the fact that it would recommend a consensus and that, in its opinion, the Committee was so clear in its conclusions. A clear assignment has been given to the Government. A time limit has been set, in order to underline the impatience of the Committee in relation to a clarification. It has also been said by the Committee that no matter how the Government organizes its work, its war children's organizations are to be involved in the work. The Committee has also clarified that the research assignment given should continue. With the decision being made today, it has taken a long and important step forward towards a worthy conclusion to something that has been a dark chapter in Norwegian post-war history so far. In June 1998, the right-wing representative, Bjørn Hernæs, raised the question of an investigation commission in an interpellation in the United Kingdom. I was responsible for responding to the interpellation then, and I knew both my own and Stortinget's insolence as to what history was hiding in this area. Thus, the Research Council received a mission with a very short deadline, and therefore the report 'Children of the Enemies?' came back in June of the following year. When it turned out that the mission that was then clarified could not be completed as quickly as the intention of the central government was, and when, in the meantime, it was decided by the judiciary that there was a primacy of historical and political follow-up, I found it necessary to produce a Document No. Eight proposals. So I just have to say that I am happy today that the committee finds reason to go further than my proposal suggests. I think it might be a practical problem for the government itself to get this assignment. I agree with the Justice Committee that the task itself can be resolved more quickly. But here, important assessments are to be made, and you have to go through a lot of material. I am, of course, the only solution chosen. The war children are a diverse group. So let me also stress that there are some people who don't want a rip-off in a childhood that they've put behind them. But then there are clearly others who need both a moral upswing and an economic one. I am now looking forward to the Dørum Council briefing on how he intends to work, and what kind of time aspect he sees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e547	The history of the war children concerns us all, not just the war children themselves. It is important to find out what has marked the growth of war children in post-war Norway. I also want to say it this way: it's a social responsibility to acquire that knowledge. Equally important is that society takes responsibility for the suffering and problems of some of the war children suffered by the Norwegian community. This government has continued the research undertaken by the previous governments. The research project is broad in scope and builds inter alia: information and claims made by war children themselves through their organisations. It has been important for the authorities to focus on the following: views and practices of authorities on war children in school, health and social services folk performances on war children; I believe that the knowledge we acquire through this research is important, not least for the war children themselves. That's their story this applies. But at the same time, it's our common story. We have to learn from what we now know. I am therefore pleased that, in its position, the Justice Committee supports the Government in its view that research must continue, and I would add that important parts of the knowledge generated by the research are also essential in order to be able to find the balances requested by the Committee in relation to possible alternative compensation schemes. But research takes time. The ongoing research mission is expected to be completed in 2004, but it is opening up for interim reports in the course of the year. It is a comprehensive material to be collected and processed. I've recorded that the war children are becoming impatient, and that they think it's a long way to expect research results. The reaction is understandable. For war children, childhood is now far back in time, and for a long time they have been concerned with the issue of society's reaction to the injustice that some believe has been committed. We know enough to establish that many have had a hard time, and that these difficulties can be due to having a German father. It's a shame it's been like this in our society. Prime Minister Bondevik has also, on behalf of the Norwegian State, complained to the war children. Many war children are now suing the authorities for reprisals and compensation. Our courts have recently dealt with the first cases of this nature. In these cases, the State has made a claim that any claims have expired. The reason is that these conditions are so far behind in time that it is difficult — not to say impossible — to provide the evidence required for the legal handling of such claims. The state has received the court's support in this view. However, I believe that we must now agree that upsetting the nature of this matter is more political than legal. This is also in line with the conclusions reached by the legal entity. The challenge facing the Norwegian authorities is to find concrete and striking criteria that can provide the basis for a fair compensation mechanism. It is this government's view that we still need more concrete knowledge, and that the most appropriate thing would be to await the knowledge that research can produce. I refer here to the opinion on the matter given by the Minister of Social Affairs in her letter of 3 May 2002 to the Stortinget, which is attached to the matter. I have noticed that the committee does not consider it appropriate to set up a commission to consider a special war-child settlement, as the representative Mr Kleppa has suggested. I understand the Storting so that it is the premise that a system is to be investigated for war children who are to be targeted at those who have suffered particular injuries, and that there must be a link between the suffering suffered and the fact that they are war children. Under the current cheap compensation scheme, compensation is not granted solely on the basis of the fact that he is a war child. However, these persons will be able to be compensated for cheapness if they have suffered congestion and can be molestered to the public. Therefore, as the Committee is concerned, we need to assess whether the cheap substitute scheme can be used. So I take it for granted that it's still going to be that even if we draw up a separate compensation scheme for this group, we're going to have to hold on to the cheap substitute as an opportunity. I have also noted the Committee's assumption that any compensation must be graduated according to the individual's suffering. In this context, I would like to point out that the design of such a compensation scheme will necessarily have to be very complicated. This is linked to the fact that matters are very old, that it will be difficult to determine the individual's burden and that the relationship between being a war child and having an overload can be difficult to establish. There is also the view that there are several individuals who, for various reasons, do not want to be involved in this. It is also related to the fact that the number of war children is assumed to be between 10,000 and 12,000. Of course, when the Storting wanted the Government to examine alternative proposals for compensation schemes as compensation for war children who have suffered particular suffering, loss and unfairness as a result of being war children, the Government will follow this up in line with the proposals that the Committee now stands behind. The government will also try to do it as quickly as possible and preferably during 2003, but I cannot guarantee that it will be the result. But I understand that the committee has chosen the form of work it has promoted in its proposals, because it has been assumed that a commission that will do a job and then process things will take longer. I understand that the Committee in this way imposes on the Government a responsibility for our return to Stortinget as soon as possible. The government will, of course, take the initiative to organise the work to achieve this – I have noticed preferentially during 2003. We're going to do our best to make it, but I can't guarantee here today that we're going to make it. But it is in the nature of the matter that this cannot go far in time, as several representatives have pointed out in their speeches.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e591	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e611	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e649	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e669	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e685	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e692	We are now considering the Bastisen proposal to ban offensive and harmful sex and contact ads via Text-TV. I can very much agree with Bastisen that it is important to protect especially minor children from such exposure on Text-TV. However, we have laws in Norway, for example: the first paragraph of Section 204 of the Criminal Code, which provides for, inter alia: who ‘issues or otherwise seeks to disseminate pornography’. This paragraph will set a framework for sex and contact advertising via Text TV. We also have the second paragraph of Section 202 of the Penal Code, which reads: «Whoever, in public notices, offers, mediates or asks for prostitution is penalised by fines or prisons up to 6 months.» We also have Section 1 of the Market Act which limits such sex advertising. On the other hand, we have the Constitution § 100 and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which deals with both the freedom of expression of people. The government is also working on a big message in the follow-up to the Commission on Freedom of Speech. During this work, this issue may also be assessed by the Government. In the light of what I have just said, the Committee unanimously proposes that the Bastisen proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e714	In connection with this matter, I went to the main page of TV 2's Text TV to see for myself which sex ads are being distributed. On the main page I was offered ‘erotic mobile chat’. I was invited to call the phone for the best unsensored teleerotics, and I got a guide to pages of unsensurised sex. Such offers are put on all those who go on TV 2's Text TV – not just those who are particularly interested. The announcement is a marked part of the TV 2 Text TV portal. Text-TV is used by many people to read the news, check the weather reports, or see which applications to send on the channel. Is it okay to search for e.g. tonight's program plan is encouraged to go to the sides with unsensored sex? I don't think so! We all know that many children and young people use Text TV. Of course, for the Christian People's Party, children should not be exposed to sexualized advertising. There is a particular need to protect children and young people from the exposure of sex and contact ads via Text TV. We therefore support the intention in the proposal by the Coastal Party Steinar Bastesen and will give him credit for having addressed the issue. I cannot or will not make a specific decision as to whether the advertising in question is legal per. today. But I would like to point out that the penal code limits sex and contact advertising via Text-TV. Both the pornographic determination in Section 204 and Section 202 of the Act, which prohibits the dissemination of prostitution, form external boundaries for the acceptable. Section 1 of the Marketing Act also limits the advertising of sex. Advertising must not conflict with gender equality nor exploit the body of one sex. However, the Christian People's Party doubts whether the legislation in this area is fully satisfactory. We ask, is there no need to regulate the time, place and form of the sex and contact ads? We can't ban everything we don't like. It acknowledges the Christian People's Party. The principle of freedom of expression is valuable and should not be trampled too closely. We all want the right to express ourselves in ways that we know other people might not like. But every freedom has its limits. The Christian People's Party is not in favour of a total ban on so-called sex and contact ads, but we will consider regulating where, when and in what way such advertisements can be disseminated. This will not conflict with freedom of expression. I don't want children who are going through Text-TV to check what's going on on children's TV to be exposed to the offer of erotic mobile chat or unsensored teleerotics. If TV 2's management does not know their visitation time and contributes to this by removing the advertisements, the Christian People's Party is forced to act. The Government is working on the follow-up of the Commission on Freedom of Speech. In this regard, the Christian People's Party will ensure that sex advertising is carefully evaluated. Such advertising also takes place elsewhere than on the Text TV pages of TV 2, and it is therefore necessary to consider the dissemination of such advertising in general. The proposal by the representative Mr Bastisen deals with Text-TV in isolation and there is a slight deficiency in the proposal. It is very important to consider different instruments that can fulfill the intention of the proposal of the representative Bastesen. The Christian People's Party will ensure that the Government submits such an assessment to the Storting as a follow-up to the Commission on Freedom of Speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e740	When I made this proposal, it was obvious to me – like the previous speakers – that this was contrary to the Halik paragraph. It is not possible to advertise on Text-TV in the way it is done, but it is contrary to the laws that exist. The government today does not have legal support to ensure that such advertisements are not included in Text TV. The Ministry has written in letters sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that this is a problem they must look at. The choice by the Judicial Committee of the wording whereby the proposal ‘Annexed to the Protocol’ must be based solely on the principle of flexibility. The Justice Committee, as the representative Marthinsen said, has also seen that this is a problem. But because the proposal comes from me and it comes from the smallest party, it has to be put to the vote – it has to be annexed to the Minutes. I admit that I have to bow to the majority. But it is not possible to sit on the committee and show such a double morale as in this case. It is quite clear that, for Text TV in general, we do not have legislation prohibiting the sex advertising on TV 2. When our children can sit and browse from side to side on TV and come to this page on TV 2's Text TV, it's too much. We have read that Dagbladet will end with the advertising they have been doing. When we're going to see the same thing on Text-TV – it's a time question before we get it on other Text-TVs, both in NRK and on TV3, when we already have it on TV 2 – that's too much! The Committee should have considered that this is a problem which should be looked at in greater detail and thus be able to respond to the proposal. But I have to bend for the protocol to be attached. I know at least that the matter can be raised again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e753	I just want to say to what the representative Mr Bastesen said, that the committee does not show any double standards in this debate. On the contrary, the Committee shows great respect for the work currently being carried out on the follow-up to the Committee on Freedom of Speech. The Committee has also referred to different legal provisions that can be put into effect and, of course, TV 2 also has a responsibility in this matter. I therefore expect that the treatment that the representative Bastesen has done will help us to get a result that Bastesen will eventually like, if TV 2 takes its responsibility. I agree with the representative Marthinsen that the way this is presented – on the first pages of TV 2 – is worrying. But at the same time, we should not be over-judges in Stortinget. We're legislative authorities, but we're not superiors to how the different media and judicial bodies deal with these issues. The Committee shall refer to the process in progress. The Commission's report on freedom of speech will be followed up with a big message, and I expect that this type of question will be thoroughly addressed when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e764	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e767	It was the representative of Marthinsen who made me take the floor. I agree with the chairman of the committee on our role here in Stortinget. I have to say that I react reasonably strongly to the fact that you choose to censor TV 2’s activities from the Stortinge Chair in this way – first of all because we are not just tying the freedom of expression dangerously close, but we are also tying the editorial responsibility dangerously close, in my opinion. We're doing something politically stupid just by focusing on a single media institution. What's the problem with sex pressure, critical pornography, etc., is first and foremost that the big pressure is somewhere else than right there. One of the main reasons why at least the signatories have contributed to this proposal being annexed to the protocol is that if we are really going to take this challenge seriously, we must start to see elsewhere than on that TV channel, places where a completely different type of both pornography and critically sexualised violence is reflected, and some other conditions around sexual life that we would not want to see either in print or in picture. Here I think the Stortinget has just a very important task by being principled in terms of how to approach this problem, and then it must be in relation to the general instruments we have in criminal law, as the case-law rapporteur Rui just mentioned in his statement. I see this as the background for us to fold back to almost sitting as a part-editor for some Text-TV pages. I really think we should take care of that, because it will in the long term help to make policy very inefficient. Therefore, it is not in the light of the fact that the proposal comes from the Coastal Party that the protocol should be annexed, but above all because the Justice Committee wants to do something effectively in relation to what we consider to be critical sexual representation. It's definitely a debate about what it is. We want to do it in such a way that in the end it also gets effect and not only becomes a pure demonstration to selected editors in the quite country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e794	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e803	For the past 10 to 15 years, there has been a violent monopoly and internationalisation of the food market. In Norway, the four major chains are all the way up to 99 pst. of the turnover. It goes without saying that control of so much of the turnover distributed to so few companies means a lot of power on few hands. Developments in this field have been so far over the last 10 years that the Competition Authority has also expressed scepticism for further concentration in the food market. The representatives of Arnstad, Överaas and Lund, who support the proposal for an investigation into the market power associated with the food chains, refer to some areas where they point out that the market power of the chains can be problematic in relation to key societal goals. Some examples: Freedom of expression: It is easy to imagine that actors inside one of the big chains will be careful with criticism of chain-to-supplier relationships. When, as a supplier in a market situation, you may in reality have only one large customer, self-imposed loyalty to this customer will extend far in fear of having their goods thrown out of the store shelves. Freedom of establishment is not being free, as the reality is that in a market you have no chance of being connected to one of the four major chains. The housing pattern is threatened by small and less profitable shops being laid down. Workplaces in the food industry are becoming unsafe because many of these businesses have short-term agreements and have long-term economic needs.Agricultural policy objectives are threatened by the criticisms of the chains and pressures against border protection, commodity prices and cooperative organisations. Of course, such relationships are not a strange phenomenon. In the European groceries market, the six largest food alliances have approx. half of the market. Part of the picture is that the trend is towards greater and greater control of the total market of multinational groups. In this case, the Committee is divided by a majority, the Government Parties and the Advance Party, who do not want such an investigation, and a minority, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, who want an investigation. The majority of the parties demonstrate in their grounds for rejecting the Government’s proposal that a competition law committee should be set up in the spring of 2003. In view of this, they do not consider it appropriate to implement changes to the law until a new proposition is made. The same majority also considers that such an investigation is not an appropriate measure to create more competition and, as those parties see it, ‘through better consumer conditions’. The minority parties, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, who wish to carry out such an investigation, as mentioned at the outset, pay particular attention to the relationship between business contracts and their importance for freedom of expression, the position of small suppliers, the position of employees and the pattern of residence. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of these issues and look at the consequences of these developments for us as consumers. I guess we're familiar with the scandals in a lot of grocery stores lately. I am afraid that what has been revealed so far is not an isolated case or accident. It has also shown us the need for controls and control. The very focus on consumers’ interests and rights in today’s market is the reason why we in SV would have liked to have seen such an investigation. I refer to the motion by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e837	Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e840	There has been a clear trend towards fewer businesses in recent years, including food co-operation, meat co-operation, banking and insurance, power and food trade. It is therefore more important than ever to be aware of the market power of producers and businesses. It is not unproblematic that the four large food chains in Norway have 99 pst. of the retail composition, when we know that they are more closely linked to wholesalers and developed their own wholesale functions and their own company for the production and distribution of food. It is quite understandable that both the Consumer Council, farmers’ organisations, trade unions and local politicians are sceptical about this development. There is cause for concern both for freedom of expression, the right of establishment, the pattern of residence, value creation, employees and agricultural policy. It's about who's going to decide what we're going to eat, and the quality of what we're getting. The working party fully agrees with the proposers that it would be useful to have a review of the market power associated with food chains. For the Workers' Party, work on safe food and diversity in food areas has been a key objective. Consumer orientation of food and agricultural policies is important to us. Consumers today want safe food and high quality products and demand diversity. We believe that consumer concerns should form part of the whole food chain. Consumers in Norway must feel that food is safe and that Norwegian agriculture ensures a stable and adequate food supply for consumers. It also means quality and diversity. However, with an even greater market power to the food chain, they can actually determine what is to be produced in Norway or choose imports. Is this development really desirable? For us in the Workers' Party, the value creation program for food is important. It is a programme of innovation and diversity in the field of food. The programme will be based on consumer needs in the market in Norway, but it will also contribute to the export of the products concerned. Moreover, it appears that the large market players also receive relatively much of the aid amount set aside by the agricultural agreement. In the last few weeks, the detection of junkies with old foods has shown us more than ever that the public has to control the large food chains more effectively. It shall not be for the individual consumer to ensure that what he buys is safe to eat. It is not useful to improve the efficiency of the daily food industry to get lower prices if what we eat is not safe. I guess no one disagrees. As consumers, we all need to have access to knowledge about the food we buy, where it is produced and prepared. In the future, there will be absolutely a need for origin marking, not least to make sure that we really eat Norwegian food. In my opinion, this will help to increase the interest in organic food and help produce niche products. As long as there is a broad political consensus on the need for safe food and diversity, it is strange that the government parties and the Progress Party are against examining the market power of the food chains, especially in those days when the consumer does not know whether the food they buy is safe, or whether it is old, harmful or faulty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e863	Competition in the food industry has provided consumers across the country with cheaper food and a wider range of products. And there's no reason to believe that competition will be less in the years to come, rather on the contrary. Therefore, a majority of the Committee cannot see the point of examining the power of food chains – firstly because we have a market of established competition, and secondly because new competition laws are being worked on which competition will be better protected. There is little doubt that these food chains have power and that they earn money. But to the extent that this is a problem, the proposal of the Centre Party does not specify any ways to solve this problem. The majority decided in the previous period to amend the Competition Act in order to improve competition in the daily food industry. Earlier this year, the government has explained to the Storting why it was not possible to implement this immediately, and also used to listen to that view. The Government also indicates that the Competition Law Committee is fully operational and that a proposal will be promoted for a new Competition Act for the Stortinge next year, with a view to its entry into force from January 2004. Let me also refer to the little argument that was made in the paper The Nations on 11 December. Representatives of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left stated that they would introduce price subsidies in the districts, both for food and for a number of other services and products, as far as I could understand. Right don't think people want to be subsidised to live where they want to live. I also believe that in a free country we can live with moderate price differences in food between cities and countries, as long as increased competition leads to cheaper food both places. But it is now fortunate that it is up to the food chains and others who sell food, to decide what it will cost. For the time being, we can see that we have a free and competitive food market. The involvement of the public in this market extends as far as it should, namely to the control and oversight tasks. And for those who still had to be sceptical about private operators and the free market, there is reason to note that this market is functioning perfectly well. Everyone gets food, even at the Rome Christmas! With this proposal, the centre party shows that they care for Norwegian consumers as well as Norwegian food producers. Although I am not able to see what an investigation of the power of the food chains would bring to the debate, rather than say what such an investigation would have to say for the housing pattern in Norway, I would wish the centre party could go a little by itself as well. I guess it's not going to go under the chair that the Center Party has a special love for and maybe a closer cooperation with the agricultural organizations than the other parties have. But so far, I am glad to hear that the Senter Party is committed on behalf of the challengers to the food manufacturers' own monopoly structures. Take, for example: the dairy sector; here, the Tine system has market shares which correspond to a total monopoly situation. There are challenges to Tine, such as: The Q-meieries, but they fight in the uphill. The struggle is against a Tine monopoly peasantry, which many claim also dominate by its position to, among other things. to push other suppliers out of the shops. These challengers are so absolutely not being helped by the Center Party. In order for consumers to have lower prices of dairy products, we do not need more investigations, but competition. I would like to ask the representatives of the Central Party whether they will contribute in every way they can, to the breaking of monopolies in the Norwegian dairy sector and food production, so that as consumers we can get lower prices and a wider range of products. Or will the Central Party continue to stand on the side of the monopolists against those who have challenged the monopolies, and against the consumers and the families?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e878	I think it might best be called naive to think that we can figure out a different structure in the daily food industry. It is also a question of whether the consumer is served with a different structure, and it must be the consumer who focuses on Storting's work on consumer policy. In fact, cooperation between the large chains can give power to reduce prices to the benefit of the consumer. If it turns out that there are unfortunate developments, we have institutions that can handle this, both the Consumer Council, the Consumer Ombudsman, the Food Authority and, in particular, the Competition Authority. The Progress Party has great confidence in the Competition Authority. We assume that supervision does its job and ensure that it cuts down on undesirable developments in the daily food industry. The Competition Authority, together with the Consumer Council, the Food Authority and the Consumer Ombudsman, has the professional competence in this field. We never come back to the sweet, small, local merchants that we had on every street corner. No matter how much we investigate or discuss in this room, enough this time is over. The big chains have come to stay, as have the concentrations around the centers. However, a key issue to be discussed is how to ensure the opportunities for local, small producers to enter the market and within the chains, whether they are jams, fish, butter or milk. We in the Progress Party believe that this can be done unless bureaucratic rules, unless rigid rules are laid down. We also believe that we need to address some of the monopolies in Norwegian agriculture, so that we can find practical and sensible solutions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e887	Representatives Marit Arnstad, Eli Sollied Överaas and Morten Lund raise an important issue with their Document No. Eight proposals. Their description of reality I can put myself in the back of my heart. The emergence of a few, more specifically four, large food chains has led to a strong concentration of market power, representing clear limitations for smaller food producers wishing to enter the market with their products. Despite the high quality of the products, which should in any case be competitive, these major barriers are encountered if they try to enter the market. The consequence is that many people don't dare to bet properly. Real competitiveness is very low. The daily food chains account for almost 99 pst. of groceries sales, and some large producers are preferred by monopolised purchasing agreements rather than by smaller and often local producers wishing to enter the market. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns of the proposers for this development. The concentration of power could prevent the creation and creation of new jobs in the food industry and primary industries in the districts, and it is worrying that it should be so difficult to establish or invest in niche production in this area. Unfortunately, it is also not easy to find appropriate instruments to counter this trend. I am afraid that the proposal to impose market power on food chains is not such an appropriate measure to strengthen competition in the food market. Starting an investigation work, perhaps by cutting down a sample, can leave a feeling that someone is trying to do something. But isn't what you want to achieve that going to happen? But it doesn't help to figure out if it doesn't solve the problem. Therefore, I cannot see that this is something that should be given priority over other measures to improve competition and the opportunities for small producers to enter the market. In addition, I think it would be wise to wait until the Competition Act Committee has presented its position before considering new measures for enhanced competition. The Government will present its proposal for a new competition law in 2003 and the most tidy one will be waiting for new measures until this proposition is made. The Christian People's Party welcomes the assurances of the Minister of Labour and Administration that the Competition Authority is closely monitoring developments in the food market. Competition surveillance has itself expressed scepticism at an additional concentration of power in that market. I also think it is important that we, as politicians, challenge the food chains to show responsibility and take products from smaller, local producers. Large businesses have the prerequisites for taking in a wide range of products, and large chains have muscles to withstand the pressure of larger manufacturers. The time with tens of thousands of small shops with service-set single buyers is over enough – some might say unfortunately. Although there are a few small shops left, among other things. Some small immigrant shops in Oslo, probably the big chains have come to stay. This trend cannot be reversed. Although the large, monotonous and boring self-service shops are not as charming as the old ones, I really don't think that consumers want to reverse this trend. We are making greater demands for selection and price today. The invisible hand of the market is not easy to control. However, we cannot accept that small producers are excluded from the market, and that thus the market hinders the innovation of important jobs in districts. I look forward to new debates on this issue after the Competition Act Committee has put forward its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e915	Document No 8:148, which proposes an investigation of the market power associated with the food chains, is an important proposal, and I am pleased to be able to argue for such an investigation from the Great Britain's pulpit. In the 1990s, there has been a massive monopoly and internationalisation in the groceries market. The four large food chains today have about 99 pst. of the retail composition and has increased its market power in recent years by strengthening its links with wholesalers, developing its own wholesale functions and its own food production and distribution companies. It is worth noting for all the scepticism of this concentration of power expressed by the Consumer Council, from the trade movement, from farmers' organisations and from local political authorities. The market power of the chains may be problematic in relation to several key societal objectives, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t freedom of expressionfree establishmentright-to-residence patterns of value creation and residence throughout the country’s wish to secure employment conditions adopted objectives of agricultural policy The food chains have a huge purchasing power, and it's all the time about who's going to decide what we're eating, and the quality of what we're getting. The proposal for a self-monitoring of the growing power of the food industry has been launched in Denmark and should also be implemented in Norway. From being run by a handful of Norwegian owners, chains are increasingly being controlled by multinational groups. A separate power investigation will provide awareness of the chain of custody and give greater scope for action for consumers, politicians and actors alike. The following proposals are therefore made: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in an investigation of market power related to food chains.’ The centre party is pleased with the support of the Workers' Party and SV for this proposal, but notes that the majority does not want such an investigation, and believes that greater power to the food chains alone has a positive effect. The majority consider that such an investigation is not an appropriate measure to create more competition and thereby better conditions for consumers, nor can it see that such an investigation should be given priority over other measures to strengthen competition and the condition of consumers in general. This position may seem strange at a time when there are many and unfortunate incidents in the food trade. The fact that the centre party is hardly believed that our commitment to this matter is primarily based on the interests of consumers, is being incorporated into the range of attempts to suspect the political work of our party. We're once again going to take note of that fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e950	I have asked for the word just to make it clear that we are initially just as concerned with market power in the food chain as the proposers are. I do not want to say that the proposal that has been put forward is uninteresting in itself. But I would like to make it clear that the issues related to possible market power in the chains are issues that the Competition Authority is the unit that has the best chance to assess, and issues that they constantly assess. The main issues, as far as we are concerned, are not lack of competition between themselves, but the access that small shops have to the wholesale function if they are not part of a chain, and the access that small producers have to the shelves in the shops. These are issues that the Competition Authority is constantly looking at and trying to facilitate to be resolved. I would like to remind you that it is a principle in which a large majority of the Storting, including the Workers' Party, agree that the best way the State can perform its functions in important areas is through systematic delegation and decentralisation of responsibilities and powers, including providing supervision with the role that they can naturally have. I agree with Mr Pedersen's view of the need for a strong state commitment both to ensure competition and to ensure food quality. And it is very gratifying to note that it is precisely thanks to a strong food surveillance that we have discovered the critical conditions that have been in relation to food quality in Norwegian shops. In the same way, I am convinced that strong competition supervision that continuously follows developments in the food industry is the best guarantee both for small shops and for small suppliers. On the other hand, it could be interesting to have a larger investigation of the whole food chain, the regulation of the authorities throughout the food chain and how it affects competition at all stages. But that is not what is in the present proposal. One small thing: the proposers mention in the rationale the concern that freedom of expression is being disrupted by the fact that important players are being tried with threats that their goods may be thrown out of the store shelves. If that's right, of course, it's very worrying. At the same time, however, proposers use, as an example, problems with the chains, the danger that adopted agricultural policy objectives may not be achieved due to the criticism and pressure of the chains against border protection, commodity prices and cooperative organisations. Those of us who are concerned about freedom of expression should be equally concerned about freedom of expression on the part of the chain. That's also part of the picture we have to bring here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e971	A year and a half ago, the Stortinget had a case on a proposal from, among others. Erna Solberg, Anita Apelthun Seele, Terje Johansen and some representatives from the Central Party, where a decision was made that we must have a change of law that prevents abuse of dominant power. Some examples were cited both in the debate and in the media of such abuse. Anita Apelthun's soul says to the Evening Post: ‘Small producers are cut off even if they are competitive. I've asked them to stand up, but they don't actually dare. No one serves to do so.’ So this is about freedom of expression. She goes on to say, ‘Today, we have sent out chain police from the chains visiting shops to prevent foreign products from coming in. This does not serve anyone.» That's the kind of message we all get, but getting it documented is hard. The centre party wishes to obtain documentation. The Council of State, by letter to the Committee, writes: «Questions about freedom of expression and job security... are not relevant in this context.» For a time, the Norwegian Bondelag allowed itself to ask questions about whether Rimi makes Norway cheaper. I believe it was obvious that they would be allowed to ask that question. They were then faced with a threat that the goods of agricultural cooperation would be thrown out of this chain shelf. Of course, there was a great pressure from the employees in these companies that now Norway's Bond team must remain silent: you are not allowed to say this to Rimi, because then we may lose our jobs. Clearly, it is a problem for freedom of expression in the country that someone has such great power. The centre party wants to find out how the food chains use their power, even beyond what the Competition Authority should look for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e997	It is of course a matter of course in all parts of society that abuse of power must be prevented, and it must of course be that large actors refrain from abuse of power and from squabbling smaller actors. I think we can agree on that. What I said to the committee was the question of whether it was the competition law to protect freedom of expression, and I think most in the Chamber will agree that we have other and more important instruments to ensure freedom of expression in Norway. With regard to the question of the extent to which we need an investigation to identify abuses of market power in the food chain, I would remind you that competition authorities already have the power to intervene against abuse of market power and that there will be a new competition law that will strengthen the position of competition authorities and competition regulators in this respect. Then it still seems as an organist to have a special investigation of market power at exactly one stage of the food chain, and then at the point where there are actually least obstacles to effective competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1004	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1009	The centre party wants a debate on the power conditions in food sales, and we think there is reason to look at food chains in particular. There are four food chains, they've made a giant, and they know each other very well. And there's reason to ask questions by the way power is exercised. We have wanted a debate in Stortinget – there is little time for that. That's too bad. In recent years, many initiatives have been taken in Stortinget to better protect consumers' interests in relation to the powerful food chains, because consumers have asked for it. The conclusion has always been the same: as long as the Competition Authority is satisfied, consumers’ interests have been properly safeguarded. Governments have recommended this conclusion. A year and a half ago, there was a final majority in favour of strengthening the Competition Act, against the votes of the Workers' Party and the SV. The chains held that the decision to prevent abuse of dominant power was ‘hair-tracing’. The size said clearly what the Storting wanted, but a bill is needed, and we're waiting for that. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party were in no doubt that changes in laws were needed quickly. We can't wait for a full review, it was then said from these parties. Among other things, I have quoted the reason given by Anita Apelthun Seele, as it is shown by an interview in the evening post. Now the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are satisfied with the follow-up of the department, even though progress has been delayed by six months in relation to the time when a full review would take place, and there was no request for a full review. The chains have very great power, even outside the area of competition supervision. This time in the proposal, there is evidence that the Consumer Council, the trade union movement, agricultural organisations and local political organisations express scepticism for the power given to the chains. But the government parties and the Progress Party say in this setting that the developments we have had have been beneficial to consumers. It is even said that it strengthens the possibility of alternative Norwegian producers entering the food market. It's a little strange in relation to the quotes from Apelthun Seele that I came along with. Quality, sample and price questions are asked by consumers. There is no country that has as few small shops and specialised shops as Norway. Reports show that margins are more liberal in Norway than in neighbouring countries. It shows that it is in Norway that most small shops and small producers have disappeared, and it shows that small producers have been pushed out. There is a strong desire to look at these matters, and that is what the Center Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1024	I share Norman's view that we have other and more important instruments to ensure freedom of expression than exactly the competition law, which we are talking about here. It is nevertheless naive not to want to see in your eyes that in a market where we have four large chains, you as a small manufacturer have to deliver everything in order to get in. If you become too small a manufacturer, you will not be delivered. You have one customer. And it goes without saying that then there is a bonding relationship, a kind of loyalty that makes it difficult to deal with matters on the basis of self-interest and your own demands. That at least it has something to do with freedom of expression, I think it's a matter of course. Själi says that the market is ‘functioning perfectly’. Clearly, if one believes that market liberalism is the great, true reality to solve all problems, such a conclusion can be drawn. It is therefore nice to hear that the Council of State, Norman, believes that it is not that simple. He sees that there are problems for small shops and small producers. Competition supervision expresses great scepticism as regards the development of the same market. So it's not like the market "works perfectly well". What Norman didn't pay attention to was consumers' interests, which I'm concerned about. She says she's happy because "everybody gets food" for Christmas. Then I say – although it goes beyond this debate – that may be enough food for everyone, but not everyone actually gets it with the developments we have in Norway today. And another thing that might be more important after recent revelations is, what kind of food is what we get for Christmas? Maybe we should be concerned about that. I also agree with Councilman Norman that the Food and Drug Administration has done a good job, which is very important. But for me, consumer interests are very important. The knots of the Progress Party also pointed out to the Consumer Council, which here has an important role to play. We had that case up a few days ago, and in that context it is right to raise the question of what is the purpose of changing the structure of the Consumer Council, where we go down from 19 offices to 10 offices. Will this strengthen consumers' interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1038	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1339]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1051	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1100	During the debate, Olav Gunnar Ballo put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:115 [[2001-2002]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had ceased: The Government asks the Government to amend FOR 2000-12-21 paragraphs 1379: Licence requirements for medical students and for health professionals over 75 years of age so that older doctors who are able to carry out their profession properly are licensed after a specific and discretionary assessment by the county doctor without absolute requirements for the nature of the activity and that the scope of the activity must exceed a particular job size.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1156	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 9 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government, on the basis of Section 27 of the Debt Collection Act, to draw up a regulatory provision whereby, in the event of transfers of defaulted claims, financial institutions inform the debtor of the main rules of the Debt Scheme Act and the authorities assisting in the application for debt regime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1174	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 9 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with assessments of the following:– implement the necessary cross-ministerial measures to provide public, both state and local, with the necessary information on the Code 6 problem, in order to facilitate the situation of victims.– how to provide adequate assistance to persons living in codes 6 and 7– how to organise future decision-making powers.– measures that make it difficult to gain transparency in the public register.– an extended duration of address-locking.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1202	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 9 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider setting up a sample, possibly launching a research project, examining common features between persons subject to address barrier code 6, which has been the trigger for selecting such a solution and how the scheme works in practice. The situation of the children concerned should be taken into account in such work. The majority asks the Government to return to Stortinget with this in 2003.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-16.ana.ud1960e1232	During the debate Magnar Lund Bergo put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in an investigation of market power related to food chains.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
