ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e62	The requested alternate of the State of Oppland, Morten Ørsal Johansen, has taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Lars Rise and Christopher Stensaker on leave from 18 March to 22 March, both to participate in the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey, Mexico from the representative of Finn Kristian Marthinen on leave from 18 March to 22 March to take part in a trip with the Political Committee of the Western European Union to Washington from the representative Olaf Güdrem on leave from 18 March to 22 March to take part in the Wilton Park Conference in Sofia, Bulgaria. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the County of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For Oslo: Aud Kvalbein For the Province of Rogaland: Silver SivertsenFor the South-Trundellag county: Hanne Dyveke Sweets Hagen3. Aud Kvalbein and Hanne Dyveke Sweets Hagen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Lars Rise and Christopher Stensaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e119	The President proposes that a president be elected for the Storting meeting today – and considers it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e124	I suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e129	Mr. Finn Martin Vallersnes is proposed as President-in-Office of the Council. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e134	On behalf of the representatives Anne Helen Rui, Knut Storberget and myself, I will present a Document No. 8-proposals on land fasts, on the prohibition of future party contracts and on the facilitation and cost reduction of the redemption of properties that are currently leased for housing or leisure purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e139	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e142	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Lodve Solholm, Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I would like to make a proposal to draw up guidelines for employment conditions for persons in the management of companies with state participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e148	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e170	There are major seasonal variations in fisheries. It also makes it difficult for the processing industry to ensure a level playing field in raw materials. As a result, employees are subject to frequent lay-offs, which unfortunately lead to job instability in parts of industry. At the same time, industry has significant investments in machinery and other manufacturing equipment. The lack of stable raw material makes the production equipment stand unused for long periods of time. There is an important reason for the failure of profitability in the fishing industry. Therefore, both to improve profitability and to provide more stable jobs, it is important to take measures to ensure more stable access to raw materials for industry and rural areas. The sea fishing fleet – and especially the trawls – has the opportunity to fish all year round, and will therefore be a useful complement to the supply from the coastal fleet. It has therefore been a political objective to ensure full-year access of processing plants to raw materials through deliveries from trawlers. At the same time, we know that trawls and sea fishing fleets have so much capacity that, for reasons of resource base, clear limits are needed on how many can operate such fishing. It does, of course, make allowing such fishing a valuable right. The granting by the authorities of irradiation concessions has to a large extent taken into account the importance it will have for individual installations and local communities. The objective in these cases has not been to give those who were granted a concession a basis for making a living on the catch. The objective has been to contribute to stable production, stable jobs and better profitability for industry. Most typically we see this at the old Findus plant in Hammerfest. The company has linked a large number of trawlers. These trawls have not been granted a concession to operate as efficiently and economically as possible. They have been granted a single concession to ensure stable raw material for the farm on land. So have they. This also illustrates another important point. We have legislation in Norway which states that the fishing fleet should as a general rule be owned by active fishermen. But there is a possibility of exemption for the sea fishing fleet, precisely to ensure access to raw materials for industry. Where a derogation has been granted, it has also been granted mainly to industrial enterprises, groups of such enterprises or related companies, in order to ensure access to raw materials. Therefore, with a broad pen, we can conclude that many of those who have received a jet concession would never have had it unless the aim was to secure raw material for one or a group of companies, alternative to a community. In many cases, this is also defined as a specific condition. Concession is granted on condition that the catch is delivered in a special manner. When I myself was a fisheries minister, we found it necessary to tighten the delivery conditions in several cases, so that there was a requirement not only for delivery, but also for processing in specified facilities or communities, in order to avoid the company transporting the raw material away without local processing. This condition clearly underlines that land-based employment and the basis for the settlement of many coastal communities were essential for concessional purposes. We also saw that from a different angle of incidence. When I was a fisheries minister, the corner stone factory in Mehamn had been quiet for over a year. The frustration of the community was enormous. People moved. The whole place's vitality depended on the activity re-starting. At the same time, upgrading of the plant was necessary. It became clear that if someone were to enter, upgrade the plant and operate processing activities, there would also be a requirement for the authorities to ensure access to raw material by providing the company with new concessions for fishing. The company got it. That's why the community woke up again. But these concessions were of course not given to see the catch part as an independent activity and an independent measure. Of course, they were not given for the owners to have an asset to sell out in bad times. They were given alone to give people work in Mehamn. That is why both delivery and processing were required in Mehamn. Similarly, it is for all trawlers with delivery conditions. The concession has been granted for the benefit of the enterprise, in some cases the enterprises, and to special communities. Those who got this concession would never get it if it wasn't for the fish to be delivered to a specific place. Then it becomes all the more provocative that universal service is not maintained. The Finnish Regional Office of the Directorate of Fisheries recently carried out a review showing that the majority of trawls do not comply with the universal service obligation. Some people do it. I mentioned the so-called Findus Rays as a good example. But a lot of people don't. My assessment is quite clear: if a trawler had been granted a concession with delivery conditions, this trawler would not have been entitled to operate this fishing if the company had not accepted these conditions. Furthermore, if the universal service obligation is not complied with, the concession is not subject to the conditions and falls away. In short, if the trawler does not comply with the delivery conditions, the concession must be revoked. It also follows directly from the concession terms, where it is normally stated, ‘In the event of a breach of these conditions, the authorisation will be withdrawn’. It is completely uninteresting if the beam company could earn more by supplying elsewhere. Because if it wanted to deliver somewhere else, the company would not have been allowed to fish trawls at all. It is only that the fish are to be delivered there as indicated, which is why they are allowed to fish. That's why it's also completely uninteresting to say that the crew could earn more by delivering somewhere else. They are not on a boat that has a free choice. Or to say it differently: One who is authorized as a doctor can treat people. An authorised veterinarian may treat animals. Then it does not benefit that whoever is allowed to treat animals, it seems that it would have been okay to treat people as well, because then he would have earned better. It's completely uninteresting. And of course, there can be reasonable adjustments. However, the shipping company and the concession authority will have to discuss it, if appropriate, and the Ministry of Fisheries will have to clarify what is acceptable. It is not up to the company itself to assess. I am concerned that the Council of State ensures that the delivery conditions are met. However, the counterpart must not be the weakening of the conditions. Another example: Also somewhere other than Mehamn stood still for about a year at the time I came in as Minister of Fisheries, namely Berlevåg. The main problem was that the trawler who had a universal obligation to Berlevåg did not deliver. We got it sorted out, with new owners who took over both the factory and the jet concession, and the strictest concession terms that had ever been imposed, with demands for delivery and processing in Berlevåg. The point was that if we did not fully ensure the raw material for processing in Berlevåg, Berlevåg would again end in uncertainty. That's why we tied the jet to Berlevåg. Then we are told that the State Council of Ludvigsen has lifted this condition, not because the company itself has asked for it, not because the Directorate of Fisheries has proposed it – no, because the Government finds it politically desirable. After 20 December last year, the trawler may no longer deliver in Berlevåg. The condition is now: Berlevåg or installations in East Finland. So what does that mean? Well, now the trawler can fulfil the universal service obligation by delivering in Vadsø, Kiberg, Vardø, Båtsfjord, Mehamn – or Berlevåg. Berlevåg no longer has the security for the smooth supply of raw materials, and can end up in exactly the same situation as when people went unemployed for one year. This danger is reinforced by the fact that the Council of State has allowed two different ownership companies for fleets and industry, which has usually made it more complicated to comply with universal service obligations. I will, as strongly as I can, ask the Council of State to ensure that Berlevåg once again secures the raw material they had before December 20. Don't let Berlevag get back into the crisis they experienced in 1996-97. And do not bring other communities into such uncertainty. The delivery of timber is important in order to ensure jobs and housing. That's why these jet concessions are given. On the contrary, the Council of State must put power behind compliance with the conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e217	The construction of the freshwater trawler fleet was essentially a consequence of the establishment of the frozen fish industry. Industry depended on the level and safe supply of raw materials, a need for the coastal fleet at that time could not be satisfied. The concession for peach trawlers was granted to shipping companies linked to fillet facilities. This link was sufficient to achieve the purpose of the concession, namely delivery to industry. Behind the extension of the trawl fleet was a deliberate policy by the authorities, where the main motive was to take account of employment in the land-based processing industry. This was also reflected in the ownership situation, where shipping companies were owned by the local fishing industry and municipalities that dominated, as the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen also explained. Later, the link between the shipping industry and the fillet industry was weakened, and the authorities instead imposed on certain trawlers universal service obligations on specific sites and businesses. Originally this applies only to fresh fish trawlers, but eventually also to roundfish trawlers and some small trawlers where the fillet industry has had interests, delivery conditions have been met. The fishing industry, including trawling and the operation of the fishing industry, has changed radically in recent years. The system of delivery conditions has not always proved to be equally suitable under these changed conditions. Therefore, there has been reason to look at the scheme in order to assess whether it can be continued in its original form or whether the original objective can be better achieved by changing the terms of supply or by other means. In line with St.meld. No 51 for 1997-1998, the ‘Perspective Communication’ presented under Bondevik I, established the previous government Ownership Committee, which is to assess parts of the participant law and take a closer look at the delivery terms scheme. I want to look at the Ownership Committee's assessments and recommendations before drawing any final conclusions as to what to do with the delivery terms. The issue is very topical, and I want to contribute to clearer positions than has been practised by changing fisheries ministers in recent years. I agree that in some cases the delivery conditions have not been sufficiently followed up by the authorities. However, I would like to stress the fact that changing governments, even when the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen himself was the Minister for Fisheries, have practised delivery conditions in a modest way beyond the 1990s. However, the Ministry has notified several times of non-compliance with universal service obligations that the concessions may be withdrawn. Normally the delivery pattern has been re-established. The fact that delivery obligations are not met differently is due to a variety of factors and are complex. In the spring of 2000, the Ministry of Fisheries asked the Regional Office of the Directorate of Fisheries in Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and More and Romesdal to provide an overview of trawlers awarded a cod trawl permit, the trawlers imposed on delivery conditions, how they were carried out, and the extent to which difficulties may arise in meeting the conditions. The reports show a composite picture. Vessels subject to special delivery conditions by individual decisions comply to varying degrees, depending on different factors. The problem is complex, and it shows that the best solution is not simply to withdraw concessions. On the other hand, there is a need for a more flexible system. When the delivery obligations have been met to varying degrees, they depend, inter alia, on: the ownership structure of the fleet and industry has changed. In addition, we need to look at the needs of the industry. The fillet industry cannot take advantage of all sizes of fish and also the entire range of trawls, as was more common in previous times. In some cases, the raw material that has been desirable has also already been made available to industry and no further supply has been required. Thus, raw material from other sources, primarily supplies from Russian trawlers, has essentially covered up what the specific trawls would provide. In other words, whether the individual vessel owner has sold its raw material for periods other than that specified by the universal service obligation has not resulted in a reduction in production in the enterprises. To this end, vessels are temporarily fishing far from the fillet farms, e.g. sea fishing outside of Lake Mora and in the North Sea. Transporting seines from these fishing grounds to North Norway for production is inappropriate and cost-effective. It is crucial that the industry receives a uniform and sufficient supply of raw materials to keep the business going, as Schjøtt-Pedersen said. At the same time, it is important that shipping companies have a certain degree of freedom with regard to the operation of the ship. The individual company or fishing vessel owner who is required to comply with the required delivery conditions should be given the opportunity to make the appropriate arrangements which provide for profitability. Today some shipping companies are forced to operate under economic conditions that differ significantly from the other shipping companies working under. In the long term, it will undermine both the trawler and industry. I want universal trawlers to have the same economic conditions as the other fleet, within the framework of universal service obligations. Changing the supply conditionality regime to imply more the obligation to deliver raw material to a larger region may give rise to the necessary competition and promote the profitability of all parties. It is not appropriate for neither the fishing industry nor ship owners and crew to supply raw material at competitive prices. So in that area, I disagree with the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, who believes that the income base of the fishermen is uninteresting in this context. In this context, I would like to stress that lack of profitability today is the greatest threat to recruitment and to maintaining the housing pattern. Until evaluation by the Committee on Ownership, the Ministry will, of course, continue to deal with individual cases according to the circumstances associated with this. When the Ownership Committee configuration is available, I will consider several considerations. This applies, inter alia, to: how to combine the consideration of a fishing gear fleet with a timely proper ownership structure. It is also necessary to assess the need of industry for fleet renewal, external capital and capacity adjustment as well as the needs of the rural industry for the supply of raw materials. During the revision of the scheme, I would also like to focus on coming to a result that is possible to follow up better than the system that we have today. It is also important that delivery conditions are designed in time and, of course, that they can be effectively enforced. Today's system has proved difficult in this way. In order to be able to sanction, it is important to have clear provisions that do not allow for different interpretations. One of the problems today is that sanctions are not quite easy to enforce. Furthermore, they must be designed to take into account all parties, both the agricultural industry and the shipping companies and the crew. I would also like to stress that delivery conditions are a district policy instrument that is not to be phased out. I stress that I have no plans whatsoever to terminate delivery terms as a district policy instrument. Nevertheless, this cannot prevent us from looking at how the system appears with the eyes of the new age, under the new, changed conditions under which both industry and fleet along the coast work. We must be willing to discuss how the conditions are to be understood and practised in different situations where the land industry has other sources of raw material. I also understood the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen in his posts that he is just inviting to these new assessments and that discussion. Here, of course, I am open to all parties, including from former fisheries ministers who are committed to the matter. I will promise that any recording will be included in the evaluation, but the final conclusions have not been drawn. There we await the recommendations of the previous government ownership committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e247	I am pleased that the Council of State agrees that there is a need for a more consistent enforcement of universal service obligations and that the universal service system should be in place. I tried myself, as a fisheries minister, to tighten delivery conditions, get a clearer statement on it, and get a few clarifications on matters that clarified the delivery conditions. At the same time, I believe that the need for tightening has been further increased after the lack of follow-up to the delivery conditions has been documented by the report submitted by the Directorate of Fisheries’ Regional Office in Finnmark. I record what the Council of State says about ensuring raw material on another team, or that the fishing can take place in an area where it is inappropriate to deliver to the plants it has been intended to. The problem here is that there has to be a dialogue between the authorities and the shipping companies, and that the shipping companies don't just get along and say this is impractical, so we don't. I believe that this is totally unacceptable, and it must be reacted to. On one point, I deeply disagree with the Council of State. This concerns the issue of a greater regionalisation around the supply conditions. I will again use Berlevåg as an example, because a decision has just been made for that place. It was very strong for me to face a situation in which Berlevåg stood still for a year because they did not have supplies of raw materials. Therefore, it was necessary to attach the trawl raw material as strongly as possible to Berlevåg as far as possible, firstly by specifying that it would be delivered there, and secondly by specifying that it would be processed there, so that it could not only be taken over the berth and driven away on trailers. The issue that arises when the Council of State has now decided that universal service will no longer apply to Berlevåg, but East Finland, is that the site no longer has any security for that raw material. The raw material can be sold anywhere in East Finland. It is essential to ensure raw material for the region, but it does not provide security for the place that the trawler had as its supply area and that it should have its security through its deliveries. Again, it means that Berlevåg can well be in a situation where they are unable to compete for the raw material in the same way as others in the region, or that the trawler chooses to deliver to other recipients in the region. Then there's a situation where you don't have the raw material, and you get a new situation with significant idleness and no longer security for the industry. I think that's very unfortunate. Therefore, it must be established that the places to be secured with raw materials must be secured by requiring delivery to that place, in this case Berlevåg. At the same time, it is necessary to have a consistent enforcement of universal service and to follow up on the report provided by the Directorate-General for Fisheries’ Regional Office in Finnmark, so that universal service obligations become effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e258	I am not in any doubt for a moment that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen and I have one thing in common, namely to develop the fishing industry, including industry and the fleet link along the coast. So it turns out that we're separating layers in some contexts, as in this case. For me, it is central to ensuring profitability, both in industry and in the fleet. Now there may be a risk that we will have a case from the Stockholm Chair of a concrete case, but since Berlevåg and Berle Fisk have been brought in, by a rigorous attitude to the current delivery conditions, we can help both the industry and the fleet to go the wrong way in relation to this with profitability. I must at least distance myself from the claim that there has been no dialogue at all, and that there has almost been no kind of wish from the new owners of the Berlevåg industry attached to this ship. We have taken over the fact that there were no delivery conditions for the ship in Berlevåg. There was demand for raw material elsewhere, and it is not that we prevent the raw material from being delivered in Berlevåg. We have changed the terms of the concession by saying that the catch is to be delivered 100 pst. to fishing industry plants in Berlevåg or in East Finland. I have the confidence in the Berlevåg industry that they will be competitive in the small market that we have developed for Berle Fisk. I understand that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen does not have the same confidence in the Berlevag industry, the industry's ability and willingness to participate and compete for raw materials. But if the industry is unable to do so, the industry has a big problem, and we do not solve that by cramming it to buy fish that you were not interested in buying. Then I am glad that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen stated in his introduction that it is important to ensure stable raw material access, and then the trawls are an important part of this. This is somewhat contrary to the decision taken by the Finnmark Workers' Party last weekend to reduce the share of the trawler's fleet in total quotas for the benefit of the coastal fleet. From the government side, we have set a course with a distribution that will be stable over the years ahead as regards the coastal fleet and the jet fleet. I have no plans or ambitions whatsoever to change the distribution, which is fully in line with what the fishermen have also asked for. I record that you can't get in both bag and bag, and that you can't both expect to get more to the coastal fleet and at the same time keep what's in the jet fleet. So here you have to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e267	President! I have to fix an obvious error.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e274	The representative Mr Schjött-Pedersen has the floor in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e277	Now, of course, we are dealing in this room with what the Workers' Party's big group believes. But I just have to be allowed to clarify one thing in relation to the decision at Finnmark Labour Party's annual meeting. They have said that the coastal fleet and the freshwater trawls will have an increased share, so in that way I think it will meet the wish that the representative had at the point of this trawler group.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e287	The President agrees that in this Chamber we are dealing with more serious sizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e290	I'm not sure that all the world's clarifications will help to help the situation neither for the fishing industry nor for the fleet of Finnmark – at least not through this interpellation. However, I must be allowed to conclude that if this can contribute to the fulfilment of the universal service and the existing legislation, I would be very pleased, like both the inter-pellant and the fisheries minister. The problem is that fish that are ‘home in Finnmark’ are landed elsewhere, and I understand that is a big problem for that whole part of the northern part of the country. However, we have a law, a regulation, within the Norwegian fishing industry, which is pierced by dispensations, and which is true that there are so many cross-cutting considerations that cannot be reconciled, that this must end up wrong. I cannot refuse to believe that when Schjøtt-Pedersen comes to the conclusion in his third verse that he ‘proved himself as a fisheries minister’, the interpellant helps to present the matter as if this is a situation of relatively new date. It's the one with respect not to report at all. The report launched by the Directorate-General for Fisheries in 2000 was referred to by the Council of State on the basis of which the industrial fleet broke its terms of supply. Then the other Schjøtt-Pedersen put himself in government. The Ownership Committee has also provided a marshaller to look at the issue of delivery conditions, and the Ownership Committee's setting is due to be completed in the summer. I think all parties will be waiting for the report to come. You can't say, like Schjøtt-Pedersen, that it's completely uninteresting, referring to what's going to be the situation for those who own the fleet. He should know better what is the economic situation of the industry along not least the Finnmark coast, where emergency lights flash every two days. Nor can I understand – as I would like to be personified by the former Minister of Fisheries and Finance Schjött-Pedersen – how it is possible to come up with one policy when you are in government, and a few weeks after you have left, with sharp solutions, with an alternative policy that needs to respond quickly to complex solutions. But to conclude, it is clear that universal service must and must be fulfilled. We have to wait for the report, and I am glad that the Minister for Fisheries promises to address this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e305	Increased profitability must be a primary objective of the fisheries policy. It will give the fishing industry more attractive jobs and ensure the recruitment of professional professionals. Wages and salaries are essential for the industry to attract more capital, among other things. A more profitable fishing industry is an important basis for future coastal economic development, and we therefore believe that measures that strengthen the economy must be given the highest priority in the coming period. The changes in industry’s framework conditions require a fundamental review of the fisheries policy instruments. Many regulations and instruments that were right a decade ago are not appropriate today, we believe. The Progress Party does not consider it reasonable to intensify the activity requirement of the Act. It may contribute to the exclusion of qualified professionals and to the weakening of the possibility of necessary access to the industry. Furthermore, it is important that the fishing industry has the same ability to own vessels in the sea fishing fleet as land-based shipowners. It will increase access to capital, help speed up fleet renewal and strengthen opportunities for improved recruitment to industry. In order to meet the increasingly demanding requirements of export markets in terms of security of supply and highly processed products, the fishing industry is, on its part, dependent on a level playing field in raw materials. The fisheries industry can, through vertical integration, secure a raw material base which will facilitate the maintenance of annual production and the conclusion of long-term supply contracts with important customers. A basis of its own resources, supplemented by deliveries from the rest of the fleet, can provide the fishing industry with valuable flexibility in a convertible market. Otherwise, we believe that the Raw Fish Act should be repealed. We want voluntary arrangements and membership in the sales laws. Fishermen themselves must agree prices directly with purchasers so that the market can function in such a way as to eliminate unnecessary regulation. Then it is not the right way to press the fleet to deliver the catch where politicians will do it. The fleet must itself sell its catch where it receives the best payment. I understand that the Workers' Party, at Schjøtt-Pedersen, has a desperate need to get on the track, but we do not think it appropriate to force the fisherman to deliver to buyers A, B or C, when the fisherman could have been paid much better for his catch by delivering to buyers D, E or F. My advice to the Council of State is that he removes these rules that prevent the free movement of the catch. Then it's up to each fisherman and buys to contract, whether they're short-term or long-term, to ensure stable delivery.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e321	The interpellant shall have a reward for travelling the interpellant. But I have to say, as the representative of Kristiansen pointed out, that it may be a little paradoxical, because to NRK Finnmark on 31 July last year, the then Secretary of Fisheries Otto Gregussen had to admit that he himself had not reacted to violations of the concession terms of a number of trawlers. I therefore believe that there are some fisheries ministers who have not done their job, and not just him as he is today. It is therefore a little strange that you get a discussion in Parliament about who has done the best for the job, and where a debt is owed to everyone else and says that when they have not done their job, there is no way that I should do it. When I had questions in question about the same theme earlier this winter, I received this answer from the Council of State: «... existing delivery conditions will be followed up in line with the practices followed by several of my predecessors.» This is, as the interpellant pointed out today, a bad practice, so there's going to be a little paradoxical debate here today. But let's get rid of that exact line of confrontation, because this is important. This is an important regional policy tool. It is an important measure of fisheries policy. The size has said that profitability, jobs, construction and resilience are the objectives of the fisheries policy. This is an important tool to actually achieve all of these goals. It's a reality. When one then establishes a practice that brings out the political objectives that Stortinget has seen, it is extremely problematic. And the proposals made by the Minister of Fisheries and the Ministry of Fisheries in relation to universal service will erode this principle even more. The interpellant pointed to two important things in relation to the universal service obligations related to both supply and processing, and that is the relationship we should not forget. He pointed out, however, something crucial for this debate, namely that these universal obligations are the provision for the granting of concessions. When a person erodes that requirement, he adds to a whole new fisheries policy, which the Stortinget has not wanted. I think that the central issue in the fisheries policy was a Gamvik man who went through the magazine in the newspaper earlier in the fall. He asked, "Why should Gamvik go to social when we live right at one of the richest oceans in the world?" That is the key issue in the fisheries policy. I mean that political governance is a way of getting rid of a market that is otherwise centralizing. The director of the Sea Fish at Melbu, Jan Steffensen, said to the magazine Vesterålen: ‘The market mechanisms do not work when one enterprise has universal obligations with owners other than the company. We cannot sell the fish below market prices.» No, the market is not working. That is why we as politicians will rule. That's why we have these universal obligations. We're forced to have the will to meet the goals that the Storting actually saw, and then it's problematic that a hollow out the targets through practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e342	The representative Schjött-Pedersen addresses a real problem through this interpellation. But the problem is also complicated, which I believe is that Schjøtt-Pedersen has not forgotten since he himself was a fisheries minister. The starting point must be quite clear: once a ship has been granted universal service obligations as a condition, this shall of course be carried out – even when delivery by other means could have provided better profitability for the ship. The delivery obligation is a regional policy instrument, which has made the employment of the rural industry a reality. The delivery obligation is a regional policy specific measure that is important for some local communities. At the same time, we know that it is problematic to practice universal service. There are examples of fish being landed on land, but the local business does not need all the raw material that comes and therefore has to be sent on the road without processing. There is also a real problem when ships are engaged in seasonal fishing far from the place where they are subject to universal service obligations. There must be practical solutions. In these cases, the focus is on issues such as maritime matters, the availability of raw materials for industry and district policy. The issue is dealt with by the Ownership Committee, and I am confident that the Minister for Fisheries will take into account both the pattern of settlement and the raw material needs of the fishing industry when he is sued on the table. Here we have to be humble because maybe we haven't found all the best solutions yet. Could it be that the universal service obligations of some vessels are also linked to the region? Can we consider linking the individual company's concessions to specific locations? These are questions we need to look at. In any case, I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries has stressed that delivery conditions are a non-disclosure condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e360	Let me first say that if anyone thinks that there were examples that the Minister of Fisheries of the Central Party has also facilitated the universal service, they will surely find it. They'll have to record that. But if we're going to keep playing ball that way in the debate, we're never going to get any further in relation to the principal aspects of this issue to which we should use an interpellation debate. I see that there may be individual cases where it might be right to relax universal service, but there are also aspects of the more fundamental nature that should be discussed in relation to what happens when an actual lessor to universal service in one case, like what has happened in Berlevåg. There is still an open question to me why the Minister for Fisheries actually permits infringements without intervention. It can be interpreted as deleting the sentence on the universality obligation of Berlevag in this context contributes to the creation of a new definition, which can create a precedent for the whole of East Finland. In reality, a regionalised universal service obligation is introduced instead of a localised universal service obligation. That's in case a change to the Center Party will be very skeptical. The supply obligation is an important part of the structure related to the fishing industry. The Council of State has confirmed that he sees this as an important regional policy instrument, and that it should also be respected in the vast majority of cases. Flexibility in relation to individual cases must not degenerate into randomness, nor must it degenerate in such a way as to alter the system without having received a prior process and democratic treatment through a political body. If, in the case of Berlevåg, the Government wishes to change its universal service obligations in such a way as to impose a regionalised universal service obligation instead of a local universal service obligation, it should do so by proposing it in the context of the Ownership Committee, not by ignoring the fact that some shipowners infringe the concession conditions they have been granted. I think that if the Government wants a debate on how to exercise universal service, it should contribute to a broad political debate on the issue, but not risk undermining the current system by ignoring the clear requirements that are in the concession – and the fact that the Berlevag business has a clear lack of raw material and that the wheels are standing still. To mention this, the judicial system respects universal service requirements. A sentence has just been passed in Sunnmøre Tingrett, where it is clearly stated that old concession requirements – in this case for ‘Vadsøgenta’ to deliver catches to Vadsø – must be respected. Governments must then also respect the system we have set up by legislators and governments. If not, it will mean significant changes without a majority in the United Kingdom being allowed to have a broad political debate and to take decisions on it in political bodies. My conclusion, therefore, is that if the Right wishes to change, they must address it in the context of the Ownership Committee, not use their authority through the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e375	I have not promoted this interpellation as a general criticism of the Council of State that he has not done all that is to be done in relation to universality. But the Workers' Party strongly believes that universal service is important, it has to stand firm, and it has to be enforced. Therefore, the former government of the Workers' Party asked for a report on a breach of universal service obligations, and it is important that it is followed up. And the interpellation has been first and foremost raised to ask how to follow this up, a question that I hope we would agree on. But at one point there is a deep disagreement, because at one point the councils have changed policy. The regionalisation of universal service instead of universal service in one particular place, I believe, is serious because it removes the security that this place has for employment and activity. It is very possible that it can increase the profitability of the trawler in question, but the opposite is that it increases the uncertainty of the people who live in that place. That is why I would strongly warn against such regionalisation. Then, of course, good profitability in the fishing fleet is desirable, we all agree on that, and it is necessary to take measures to achieve it. But that's not the main point of universal service. Once these trawls have been authorised to operate trawl fisheries at all, it is in order to ensure stable access to raw material for the communities. It is on the basis that I say that in relation to universal service, it is uninteresting if they could have earned more to deliver elsewhere. If they wanted free delivery, the counterpart is that they have not received the permit, and they would not have received it. They have a limited authorisation, limited by the universal service obligations associated with the concession, and then they have to deal with it, even though they could have earned more on a more freer supply option. My motive, therefore, is first of all to establish that universal service is important to ensure access to raw material for fishing industry plants. Secondly, it is not acceptable to break the terms of supply. I hope there's a broad consensus on that. However, it is important, after evidence has been provided that there is a breach, to arrive at a situation where the delivery conditions are clearly enforced. My third motive is to establish that universal service is so important to individual communities that I would very strongly warn against going away from a universal service obligation to the place and to a universal service obligation to the region. It creates an uncertainty that unfortunately can lead to a return to the situation we had a few years ago, how many communities stood still. I would very much warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e392	I agree with those who say that it does not lead us far to be most concerned about who has allowed the delivery conditions not to be followed up. But I find it interesting to note that the Workers' Party has suddenly been so absorbed by the delivery conditions and that they must be respected at all costs, not least when the interpellant has been in a government where the Minister for Fisheries admitted that he had not followed up the delivery conditions. I have taken this into account precisely because I want it under control, that we should be able to conduct a policy that applies to everyone who has delivery obligations. I will base the investigation carried out by the Control Office, which shows how this has been done. The report was presented in 2000. We're going to look at what the Ownership Committee comes with. They have announced that they will deliver their settings during the summer. Then I have to deal with individual matters as they come in, and come back with proposals for changed policies to the Storting in an appropriate way. But my starting point is that we need to find practical solutions – including the representative Molvær Grimstad – at the intersection of business policy considerations and regional policy considerations. Then, the profitability – as the representative Hedstrøm so strongly emphasised – is an important criterion in all parts of the industry and must have a high priority. I fully agree that we must then go through the basic instruments of fisheries policy, and that includes, of course, much more than the delivery obligations. I cannot promise that we will remove the delivery obligations, but we must adapt them better to the reality of today's fisheries policy. I do feel that the starting point for some in this debate – not necessarily in this Chamber, but in the debate that is also taking place and that is important – is that you want everything as it is. It is safe and good to have it the way it is, and then close your eyes so that it has not been followed up in a good enough way with changing government councils and changing governments. Therefore, I hope that you will be able to enter this discussion without prejudice and then look for practical solutions that will ensure that the purpose of this tool is met in a better way than it is today. With regard to the specific case, Berle Fisk, I would like to make it quite clear that Berle Fisk is still to be owned by the company and the company that originally owned it, before we eased the delivery conditions. It was a wish from those who took over the industrial plant, not to have the trawler on the purchase. It was a wish of this company to be released from the obligation to purchase, because they did not apply to the raw material. Perhaps not everyone has taken it well enough inwards that ownership of fleets and industry has changed, there is increased competition for raw materials, and there has been a change in the market for fish products. This helps to make us look at the fisheries policy for the future and not to pursue a policy that was better adapted to the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e403	Then we have finished dealing with case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e421	«Scold us wrong, what did we have then» wrote the spirit fighter and poet Petter Dass at the end of the 1600s. Since then, in fact for many centuries before, cod and fisheries have been the bearer of our nation's economy. Fisheries, with cod fisheries as their main activity, have provided both income and food to a poor and hungry population. Even today, when we boast of being one of the richest nations in the world because of our oil and gas revenues, the marine sector appears to be our second largest export industry with over 30 billion dollars in currency revenue per year. years. Now it has been long provided that the oil and gas revenues will decrease. It is then that the marine sector again appears to be Norway’s rescue. In ‘Marine Norway 2020 — The Future of the Coast’, a group of researchers describes how marine Norway can become Norway’s economic future and rescue after the oil adventure comes to an end. Similar visions and future scenarios are described by other research environments, and common to all is that they attract a picture of possibilities with enormous perspectives. Already in 2020, Norwegian exports of seafood and marine products, excluding oil and gas, may have risen from today’s level to staggering SEK 150-200 billion. This obviously requires substantial investment in research and development, and the framework conditions are similarly organised for market access and value creation. Stock estimates, recommended catches and withdrawals from the traditional fishing industry have fluctuated strongly from one year to another with consequent problems for business operators, investors, workers and communities. This is despite the fact that the Norwegian marine research environment, mainly financed by the Ministry of Fisheries budget, appears to be one of the world's leading environments in its field of competence. It must be a priority objective for Norway as a fishing nation to further strengthen and ensure the quality of this environment, so that the authorities with the Minister for Fisheries are able to set quotas and resource withdrawals at such a level that we ensure optimal and stable long-term benefits to the industry and to all its operators. In order to achieve this, it seems that a lot of basic research remains, among other things. related to the relationship between different populations and ecosystems. At least as economically important as traditional fish products are today, the future seems to be for what is now considered waste and by-products. Fish loins, livers, islets, fish skins and fish bones contain marine substances that we only understand the importance and impact of, and where the food industry, pharmaceutical industry, chemical industry and even cosmetic industry are already spending considerable amounts on research and development of new products. Common to all this is that development and application are highly knowledge-based and research-driven. After a very modest start-up of the breeding establishment in Norway at the end of the 1960s, salmon and trout farming has grown into a gigantic manufacturing industry. By comparison, the annual production of biomass in farming is currently larger than the total production of meat throughout the Norwegian agricultural industry. In addition, there is an increasing production of different species of whitefish, mainly kelvins, cod and cuttlefish, but also specific experiments in farming other fish species, and not least shellfish. However, many unresolved issues and challenges remain related to a number of disciplines involving both traditional basic research and applied industrial research. In parallel with this formidable growth in the farming industry, we have also developed a related technological industry. The development and production of equipment and technical solutions for the farming industry and traditional fishing industries have given rise to major challenges for our technical and technological research environments, but at the same time have led to the emergence of new products and activities that we did not know and could not imagine a few years ago. The same has been true of the feed industry and veterinary medicine. Both improved feed quality and new knowledge generated through research into fish diseases and fish health have led to the emergence of operators in Norwegian fish farming as one of the most competitive in the world. In this context, I cannot avoid mentioning the importance of maintaining a clean and pollution-free environment. With our huge coastline – over 57,000 m2 – a plethora of fjords, screened islands and a clean marine environment, we have some of the world's best assumptions for marine operations. However, extensive research is also required in this area, both in order to preserve the environment and to monitor that the release of their own and other countries into the sea does not threaten the opportunities of future generations. It is not within this interpellation to be able to go into the depths of any of these very exciting and individually comprehensive research areas. Most of the marine raw materials can have a commercial future. It's just the imagination and the knowledge that sets limits. However, let me point out the following: The key to the positive development we have experienced in Norwegian marine industries is knowledge – which in turn depends on good research environments with sufficient human and financial resources to constantly generate new knowledge and best knowledge, so that we can constantly be at the top of the world in product development, commercialisation and value creation. Here, both basic research, applied research, product development and commercialisation must go hand in hand – focusing on market, market knowledge, market research and market access. It leads to the most important political part of this field of action, in addition to maintaining and further developing a generally high and good level of knowledge in the population, namely the framework conditions for Norwegian marine research. The 2002 budget re-examined the financing of Norwegian research. Tax incentives were given greater emphasis to increase private funding. I'm familiar with the government's goal of moving on with this. In marine research, the need for a larger private-funded research share is particularly high, with more than 70 pst. of research in this area as late as 1999 was funded by public sources. In order to trigger even more of the enormous growth potential that is present and to meet some of the visions that researchers have described in ‘Marine Norway 2002’, I think it is necessary to invest further and more heavily in both public and private funding, related to basic research and applied industrial research. The construction of a new marine research vessel is undoubtedly a major step in the right direction. But this needs to be followed up with sufficient resources and with free research resources for our heavier maritime research environments at the universities of Bergen and Tromsø. Finding good solutions to the basic issues requires both sufficient breadth and professional concentration. This is only the university's ability today. However, applied research related to industrial development and commercialisation can be beneficial in several coastal research environments, such as: at the Bodø College, where one is in the process of developing a national competence environment for intensive research. Such and similar environments should be further stimulated in the coming years. I would again like to underline the importance of multidisciplinaryism and the need for new knowledge relating to the whole value chain – from basic research on ecosystems and populations, including environmental conditions, to applied research on new products, new applications and new markets. The challenges – but also the opportunities – are enormous. In this context, it is important to let the thousands of flowers bloom. I meet the Council of State's responses and the Government's proposals for solutions to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e453	The representative Voie addresses key current and forward-looking questions about the prerequisites for research to contribute to the development of the marine sector into one of Norway’s leading growth areas for value added and employment. The experience and the harvest we have made now shows that we are on the right track to achieve the ambitious objective of six-sjudling the export value of the marine sector, from a 20-30 year perspective. But in order to reap in 20-30 years, it is required that we sow today. And I would like to remind you that today we have salmon exports from farming at approx. 400,000 tonnes, is a result of research efforts 30 years ago. It's in such a perspective that we have to work, and we do that when we now initiate a significant effort in the cultivation of cod. It is exciting to record that today we have juveniles that, when it grows up and comes on the market, will correspond to a whole loofot fishing. Let me first say that the thematic priority of the marine sector, i.e. research aimed at traditional fisheries, aquaculture and marine biotechnology is on a solid basis. The prioritisation of the marine industries is part of the policy base of the Cooperative Government, as defined in the Sem Declaration. In the New Year's era, the Prime Minister also stressed the importance for those living and working along the coast of the country of success in the development of the marine industries. This places great emphasis on the Government in many contexts and at the latest yesterday, when we presented the Communication on the marine environment – a comprehensive approach and a comprehensive overview of key actions that need to be taken to safeguard the marine environment so that it will be a priority for the Norwegian marine sector in the future. The value creation scenarios for the marine industries that have been presented to the authorities, industry and Norwegian public authorities over the last three to four years take us a long way – something also the representative Voie had in mind. Such scenarios show us what can be possible if we act in certain ways, but don't tell us that it will go like this. How do we tackle such a long-term challenge that has so much uncertainty? By setting up the Governmental Committee for Marine Valuation, which includes seven government councils, the Government has taken on this extensive task in an offensive and thorough manner. The aim is to coordinate and strengthen the organisation of public authorities towards the marine sector and the marine future — in the short and long term. During the sample, a larger inter-ministerial follow-up work has been started as a starting point. The Government aims to step up the Norwegian research effort at least to the average OECD level by 2005. How this is going to happen, the government will come back to the state budgets in question – it is well to the extent that no one had expected me to report from Halvorsbøle in this context. However, let there be no doubt that I assume that a significant increase in public and private research efforts is an absolutely necessary prerequisite for us to reach what we want in the marine industries. The government sees the need to step up research efforts. In this context, I am pleased that the industry itself, through the Research Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture, has established a good instrument to promote industry's own research interests and to be at the forefront of the debate on research policy. We're talking about an interaction between public organisation, among other things. through research and private efforts, which do not necessarily need to manifest themselves in traditional perceptions of the tasks of the public and of the tasks and responsibilities of the private. This is one of the key challenges for all parties involved in the process of value added creation and requires a good dialogue with industry. I would like to stress this with a good dialogue and the need for an interaction and close contact between administrations, between industries, between educational institutions and between research institutions. It is primarily in an interaction that we can reap the results described in bold vision. For me, the issue of funding and organisation is two sides of the same issue: ensuring that we do the right actions to ensure that resources are used properly, and that the actions are done correctly so that the research results are in line with our expectations of contributing to the development of a commercially profitable, sustainable and internationally leading industry. I expect research to be organised to deliver results that meet the needs of industry and with professional quality at such a high international level that the results correspond to our national ambitions for the marine industries. I would also like to stress that we need to have the necessary patience and understanding, because in this work, where there is so much we don't know, there will also be a number of research results that prove not to be commercially exploitable. But that's part of the price we have to pay in our search for new products that we don't know today. As you know, the government has a process in progress to follow up the evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council. In my view, the marine sector has good reason to commend the Norwegian Research Council for the efforts made since 1998 to make the marine industries more visible and to raise the profile of national priority areas. It is also stated that it shall continue to be so. In the further process of the future organisation of research in Norway, and in particular the Research Council, the Government will adopt a comprehensive perspective on how the level of research councils should function in relation to the overall priorities set by the Government and the Stortinget, including business development. The evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council is now under discussion in the Government Research Committee. In that discussion, I will be concerned that the research needs of the marine industries are properly addressed within an organisationally satisfactory framework. In my own department's area of responsibility, too, we are laying new organisational frameworks for research and development activities. Industries based on fisheries, fisheries and aquaculture will increasingly need to adapt to the challenges of globalisation. Here it can be said with great certainty that if an industry is already globalised in Norway, it is precisely the fishing industry. My ambition is to further develop and strengthen our position as one of the world's leading producers and exporters of seafood and other products of marine origin. This can only be achieved by being in the absolute research front within the areas that determine our competitiveness. Here again, I would like to stress that the communication on the marine environment that is currently passing the Council of State, which was presented yesterday, is one of the areas that will contribute to increasing Norwegian competitiveness. The environment will be important for the fishing industry. It is not enough in the future to prove that Norwegian seafood is clean and safe food; people must also experience it and feel that the environment where this food is produced, tolerates transparency and tolerates all analyses. The Government will be committed to investing in the development of infrastructure by investing in the development of research stations, facilities, instruments and equipment that contribute to improving the efficiency of research progress, providing a timely research offer to the business community and making Norway an attractive partner in international research cooperation. The Government is committed to assessing and facilitating our institutions to have a form of governance and organisation that takes into account changing working and framework conditions and becomes dynamic instruments for value creation, interaction and networking against industry and management, and national and international competitive venues for research tasks. Furthermore, the Government emphasises that modern theories on innovation often link close links between research and industrial development. Values based on marine raw materials will, to a large extent — naturally — have to be carried out on the coast, and it would therefore be natural to encourage the strengthening of the research environments located there. Therefore, we will have a special focus on the environments in Bergen and Tromsø, as the year's budget also offers. However, I would like to welcome all research environments that will contribute to the development of marine industries, whether located on the coast or inland. Moreover, I do not conceal that I am somewhat surprised that the university communities have shown no greater interest in the undeniable value of the marine area as the national arena for value creation. Finally, in an interview with Executive Director Christian Hambro in the Norwegian Research Council in the evening post on 26 February of this year, he points out that in Norway, unlike the other Nordic countries, there is no single research area where we stand out with efforts far beyond the average. But he says, ‘We should have such an area and there must be marine research. Here we are already very good, but we should be the best in the world." This is a vision and an ambition I share, and I will work hard through the Government Committee for Marine Value Creation, the Government's Research Committee and my own department to facilitate research-intensive and innovation-oriented development in the marine sector with related industries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e502	I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State cannot provide a detailed description of how the Government's ambitious objective of reaching an average of the OECD in terms of research efforts can and should be done and that it cannot be presented today. At the same time, however, there is a moveable objective, for the other OECD countries, which are involved, also increases their research efforts in parallel with the fact that we are doing so in Norway. I am pleased that we have a government that has such a goal, and I look forward with excitement to future government budgets when this objective is to be achieved. I think it is absolutely necessary that we – as I said at the outset – increase the public's share and efforts in research related to financial contributions, and that we ensure that we have good incentives for business to absorb the industrial share of research. It is too low in this area too in Norway. Otherwise, I think it is very positive that the Council of State also emphasises, if possible, increased and even better interaction between industry and research. What has brought us to where we are today is that we have had a close and close dialogue between good researchers, good research environments and the good nutritionists. If we want to develop it even better in the future, we will also be able to achieve even better results and realize the visions we see today. The dissemination of knowledge and dissemination of good research results must necessarily take place in close interaction and dialogue between professionals and the established research communities. But I also want to stress that interaction between research and industry is not only necessary, but also that interaction between the different actors in the field of authority, for example between the Minister of Fisheries and the Minister of Environmental Protection, is necessary in order to secure the future of this industry – and not just ensure it, but further develop it. I show you, among other things: to the Minister for the Environment, who says that he is concerned about Norwegian seafood because of the fact that traces of it are now being found. technetium in seaweed along practically the entire Norwegian coast. I also point out that there is going to be little headlines in the media about pollution before it has dramatic consequences for the export and market situation of Norwegian fishing industry. So the better the government can make its inter-ministerial work work work, the greater the opportunity I think we have to make sure that we meet the challenges we face in multi-disciplinary areas – not only research but also the exercise of authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e515	I fully agree with the representative Voie on what he draws from visions and opportunities, and that there must be good and constructive cooperation between the various departments and between industry and the public. In that context, I just want to mention that yesterday I participated in business days in Tromsø, where cod farming was a major theme. I have to say that it was uplifting to see how the investment that growth and government made in the autumn of 2002 through the State budget has been captured by the research community, by industry throughout the country and by various authorities. It collects the cancers and sits down and discusses how to achieve this from research to commercial industry. The optimism and realism that was presented on the business days in Tromsø yesterday bear the command that here it is both the will and the ability to realize cod, in this context, to a new large breed, just as we will see that other species and other products will be realized as a result of the research. As I said in my first post, the government released the marine environmental message yesterday. I would say that the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Fisheries have a common cause in this context, namely to ensure a clean marine environment so that we can continue to produce safe Norwegian seafood. I would like to take it this way, as the representative Voie referred to here from the Environment Minister's opinion, that this is precisely to assure us that this is the way it should be in the future, because in Sellafield context, the fish and the marine environment are not polluted today. The food we export from the sea to 160 countries is clean. We can prove that. And so will it. But it is important that we do the right grips today, so that in 200 years, in 1,000 years, we will still be able to eat safe Norwegian seafood. It is in this context that we must see the fight against Sellafield, the fight against emissions and the fight to keep the blue field as a highly fertile field. In this context, we also need more research. I want to give a good certificate both to Fisheries Research and to the Marine Research Institute, which now gathers its forces in the Tromsø–Bergen axis to further develop the highest we have in the world of this type of research, to become even better. This is necessary in the future, and we will contribute to this through the annual budget. We did it this year, we're going to do it in the future as well, and I believe that government and greatness have common interests in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e526	It's a very important theme for the interpellant. But I have to admit that I think it's a bit of a special situation to witness this touching sense we've had between two representatives from the Right. This question should be raised first and foremost at the Group meeting of the Right in front of the Bondevik government's budget proposals, because this was one of the areas which was cut most in relation to the budget of the previous government. I understand that the Council of State refers to the Prime Minister’s New Year speech, for so far it has been very much ‘good Christmas and good new year’ in this area from the Government. So the marine sector is a very large and important area for Norway, it has a very large potential. This is an important industry, and it can become an even more important industry – not least, it is an important district industry in Norway. But the government we now have is more involved in tax relief than in targeted measures towards individual industries. In order to finance this tax haven last fall, fishing was one of the most difficult areas. I don't have anything against tax relief, but we know that much of the tax haven that was given last fall is going to end up in the Oslo area and in the big cities or so, and very little of the money will flow back to the fishing and farming industries. One of the exciting measures that has been given a maximum of uncertain layers as a result of the Bondevik government cut in respect of research funds in this area is the Marine Breeding Research Centre in Bergen. A company was created by the model of SINTEF and others, called PROTEVS AS. So the previous government spends money on this measure. The resources made available were cut by the new government. And in a letter of 26 February this year to the representative of Frøiland, the Minister of Industry refused to find these money. This strongly contradicts what the Minister for Fisheries himself said in the context of the budget of the Education Committee: ‘It has no intention of establishing a company if we do not mean it. From my point of view, I am serious: this company must be a heavy and important player!" The contribution so far from the Government is to remove the money that was put at the disposal of this company, and it may be interesting to know how the government should contribute to this becoming a heavy and important player. In any case, his colleague in the Ministry of Economic Affairs has stated that he himself will not raise a finger to help this company become a heavy and important player.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e540	I'm a little surprised at where the Workers' Party chooses to place itself now: in a different arena than the one that's the theme of this debate. No matter how you choose to count – even with the Labour Party’s use of a calculator – you will find that marine research is growing compared to 2001. And it's a little strange that both former Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen and former Minister of Oil and Energy Aksensen, who both left the government quarter when we had Europe's highest interest rate, have left the evidence that competitive jobs along the coast, in the whole country, are disappearing day by day and have lost ground, especially in a market where Norwegian fishing industries are to cope with competition and where the export share is up to 95 p.m. And then you drag this debate into a sort of clipping-clip-round – who has spent the most on some company, in Bergen or anywhere in the country this might be. What's the ratio of this interpellation is how to take new opportunities for an industry that may have the greatest potential of all in this country, but which is equipped with the worst export conditions, and where there is now an attempt to give more opportunity to one of the three pillars of this industry, in my opinion, to build its growth and development, namely research. I am glad that the Minister for Fisheries today points out that you are not satisfied with the state of things as they have been, and as they are. And I'm glad that he wants an evaluation of the efforts made through the Research Council, and that he takes care of the existing university environments and refers to the lack of attention that marine research has had in these environments. Because it is precisely within the fisheries sector that we have the greatest potential. Then it doesn't help with all the world's celebrations about the potential and possibilities, all the time we see that this industry today has negative factors around it, that the value creation goes down, that the export share goes down, and when we see that in the most important markets we lose terrain. There will certainly not be much speed and development of! Therefore, it is important that the Minister for Fisheries takes up these tasks, which he does through the Committee for the Valuation of the Government. It is certainly also a task for the Norwegian fishing industry itself to take up and develop, in a situation where in the market sector they are actually the best of all in this country — in place for more than 160 nations. But then they must also ensure that it is not used as income for an industry that sees itself most profited from being outside the markets to be served both today and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e549	An active commitment to research and knowledge development will be central to the business life to be established internationally in the future in the elite division. The industries and countries that are able to develop their research efforts at the same time as they are able to convert research into concrete products will be far stronger in competition than industries and countries that are unable to do so. The skilled will take out a much greater value of what they produce than if they only work the traditional way. Norway is also a major commodity producer in the marine sector. The challenge will therefore be to develop both production methods and products in this industry, so that we can get a higher value out of the products we sell on the world market. In addition, we can become a major provider of knowledge in the marine sector, and research must play an important role in this. Research efforts in the marine sector are currently insufficient, and there must be a significant boost if we are to be part of the elite division. In this work, it is important to listen closely to how the industry itself believes that increased research efforts need to be used. Today, a number of industries believe that the research being done is not sufficiently relevant to the same industry. We therefore believe that these activities should be more closely involved in the work than they are at present, and give greater influence on the priority research to be given. Cooperation between research institutions and enterprises must also be strengthened by linking enterprises closer to research institutions. Today, research itself is not an objective, but an important tool for creating a robust and forward-looking business. The Progress Party takes a very positive view of the work done in many institutions and in many environments, including: in the Biomarint Forum, initiated by the Norwegian Investor Forum. Here, private investors also show the willingness to go into projects that are uncertain but that can yield good returns in the long term. The contribution of the State is to make its research institutions available for research in this field. Furthermore, it is necessary to improve the possibilities of strengthening access to capital, and this must be in addition to the capital already available in enterprises and research institutions. I think the signals that the Minister for Fisheries has made here today are uplifting. He is concerned about this problem and wants to strengthen marine research. We therefore hope that a number of things and some suggestions from the Government will now be put in place quickly, so that Norway will have the place internationally that we deserve in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e562	We are all aware that R & D work is a driving force for growth and development in business. I was therefore a little bit over when this government, as it did the first time, reduced R & D efforts in the marine sector. Therefore, the interpellant should be praised for trying to fix this today. The marine industries are predicting a bright future. They're supposed to take over after oil. As the interpellant points out, one suggests that the growth potential is five to ten times that of today's export value of NOK 30 billion. Predictions of such growth at least make my heart beat. I've even seen the dollar drawings bright in the eye of the nutritionists along the coast. Of course, such predictions create expectations, of course they create hope for the future. But a growth of this size need not be unproblematic. The inter-pellant itself points to environmental concerns and sustainable development as a framework for such growth, for this is the case with all economic growth. Human beings have produced a technology, including in the marine sector, which is much more effective than nature can tolerate. Then it's invaluable to have knowledge, because nature follows its own laws. We can trick ourselves into believing that we rule, but the truth is – so far – that we should be careful not to rule the natural environment and ourselves in the whole. Having a sure knowledge of the consequences of human activity for possible future exploitation and future profitability, of which this government is so busy, is therefore a prerequisite for alerting growth in a proper way. But unfortunately, it is not that knowledge and experience automatically form the framework for political decisions. Here are two examples: The research has told us that for the cod in the Barents Sea, the target should be a spawning stock of 500,000 tonnes. This has not been the decisive factor in the Norwegian-Russian quota negotiations. In recent years, quotas have been set too high, with the result that the marine research now has to report weak annual grades of 1-, 2- and 3- and 4-year-olds. Nevertheless, an established fishing operation is taking too much young and small fish. It has to do with travel, it has to do with regulation, and it has to do with allocation of allowances. R & D work, as the interpellant pointed out, is also important for the industry. It is essential for businessmen to get back a dollar for their efforts and investments. A small example: the knowledge that a lip fish can minimize the problem of farmed salmonids will hopefully eliminate the need for chemicals in the long term. Hopefully it will reduce the environmental tax on farmed fish, and it will hopefully improve confidence in the market for farmed fish. This will improve the profitability of the industry. I have already, in the course of my humble career, moved to be tired of fine words and rhetoric that are not followed up in practice with concrete action. I do not think this will be the case today, because what we are witnessing here is that the interpellant, as the representative of the largest and most powerful government party, and the Minister of Fisheries, as the competent Council of State, have fixed a height of fall. I look forward to the next state budget, and I promise that it will be a long way to go if the lifting from today is not followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e584	When we got a new government, the co-operation government, they didn't have many weeks to put in a budget. It was a budget with a significant tax burden, which has turned the business off positively throughout the country. Some areas were also cut, and it is clear that some cuts can hurt more than others. But I want to say that, in sum, there was a good budget submitted by the Co-operation Board. We also see developments in terms of interest rates, which have fallen. We believe from the shipyards and from many others in the business world that it is very important for them to have a low interest rate because of competitive advantages in relation to other countries. I would therefore say that even if it is a general instrument, the tax and tax burden that the Co-operation Administration has brought means a great deal to many individual companies. When it comes to developments in aquaculture and farming, it creates great potential for value creation and employment, not least in the districts. New technologies, combined with local insight and experience, provide a high potential for many resource-based industries. The Sem Declaration states that the Government will pursue an innovation and research policy that will allow the significant value creation potential of marine natural resources to be extracted. The potential is there, but we need to bet on research to take these values out. In the research report, as the previous Bondevik government presented, the marine sector is set up as one of four areas of Norwegian research should be given priority. This priority is a broad multiplicity, and that's good. As the Council of State said, there is a need to increase both public and private research efforts. The Government Party aims to increase research efforts to the OECD average by 2005. Compared to other OECD countries, we have a lot to do in private research. Here we need to focus on cooperation between the research community, business and public funding systems. It will benefit both value creation and basic research. It must be committed to recruiting for marine research. The Christian People's Party believes that the school can make a farm for the youth school students' learning venue. A good investment in knowledge and recruitment to all levels within the marine sector could be to launch a ‘Young Sea Scientists’ project to stimulate elephants, teachers and schools to learn about and research plant and animal life in the fjords and marine ecosystems. A project for youth and aquaculture can introduce many young people for opportunities in the marine sector. Studies show, inter alia: that among students who experience entrepreneurial projects in the school, there are far more founders and business leaders. The Christian People's Party thought it could be a good idea, because today's 13th, 14th and 15th year-olds pass 30 years around 2020, and then we need even more before this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e601	Like previous speakers, I agree that the issue is important, and I agree with the inter-pellant that the growth potential in marine research and development is high. Nevertheless, over the last decade, we have almost failed to have real growth in marine research resources, if we look at the period from 1989 to today. Now the scheme is being transformed in a way that creates a certain uncertainty among the actors, which I think can be difficult. I'll come back to it a little bit at the end of my post. In this year's budget, there is a marked increase in the funds for marine research in the State budget, above the Ministry of Fisheries's budget. But I think it is important to remember that two thirds of the increase are actually appropriations for the research ship «G.O. Sars, which will be finished until next year. It is, of course, a completely necessary and long-term tool for marine research, which cannot necessarily be seen as a boost to research as such. I think we have to look at the other parts of the research effort, and see if we can do things better there. We are facing more problems. Research recruitment in this area is a matter to be considered. The same applies to the issue of major basic appropriations for marine research. The need for more research on product development is also quite crucial. Large parts of the funds go to infrastructure such as buildings and vessels, but there is too little left for purely research purposes. I think it is important for the Government to help reduce the uncertainty created during the harvest budgetary procedure, for example. in the case of the conversion of the FUNN scheme, which many experienced as a very good scheme — unbureaucratic, simple and absolutely necessary for those who had not accumulated a surplus from which it was possible to obtain some tax relief. The centre party therefore finds it regrettable that the FUNN scheme was removed. We believe it was an important tool, especially for the small ones and for those who establish themselves as new in this industry. Although the Minister says that there is optimism about cod farming, there are signs that SND’s ripping of the research programme for new species in the marine sector has created considerable uncertainty about research, among other things. in the case of cod farming. The signals given by the Business Committee at the Seafood Center in Bergen this week were that this was problematic in terms of the work they are doing. That's why we probably have some challenges here, and one of the challenges is the link between research and commercialisation – not just doing more on the research side, but also being able to commercialise what you're researching. There is just SND an important link between the pure research effort and the possibility of commercialisation. I look forward to important debates on this. Like Mr. Åsa Elvik, I believe that the height of the fall is great. It may be far to fall, but we'll see when next year's budget comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e619	This is an important debate. The last business committee confirmed this, was when we were in Bergen this week and talked to representatives of the Marine Research Institute. As for the increase in research funds, I think I remember that there was only 1 pst. of the increase in marine sector research. The Minister of Fisheries says that it is difficult to provide any details, but I would like to repeat some of the details in the current year's budget. In St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 cut the Bondevik grant to the Norwegian Research Council by 20 million. kr, the cut premium for fisheries research in Tromsø by 3 million. kr, the subsidy to the Fisheries Competence Centre was cut by 2,5 million. kr, and the grant for industrial development in the marine sector was cut by 30 million. kr. In view of this, I do not think it is surprising that the right-wing representative Voie believes that the research in the marine sector has gone down. But there is a reason for that, namely that it was cut in the budget. Had the majority stood by the government of Stoltenberg, there would have been several million dollars available for that type of business. The Labour Party wants research and industrial development related to the marine sector. It stands for value creation in the districts and provides large revenues to the nation as a whole, and it must have a greater share of the research funds in the future. When I hear the Minister for Fisheries, it sounds like the bigger the cuts are on these chapters, the better it gets for the industry as a whole, and I think that is wrong. "The creation of values goes down," said the representative Kristiansen, also from the Right. Why, then, is he so sure that tax-motivated research is what is supposed to give the desired effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e630	When the representative Gaundal here says that I believe that research in this area has gone down, that must be what is called a manifest misunderstanding in good political terms. On the contrary, there is a significant increase both in research activity and in research quality in this area. And what's really the purpose of the entire interpellation is to make it happen even more in this area, which they all, most of the debaters here have also been concerned about. When the representative Kristiansen realized that the value creation within the industry is currently falling, it may not have gone far beyond recording that there is a decline in market prices in the international salmon market that has led to this decline, which hardly has anything to do with Norwegian research. Otherwise, I must also be allowed to say at the outset that even if the Workers' Party is in a bad state at the gallup, it should not prevent the Workers' Party's representatives from looking forward and seeing opportunities, at least in new areas that are not related to the Workers' Party's gallup situation. When Olav Aksensen started by simply referring to the Stoltenberg government's budget proposals and the solutions prescribed there, versus the Bondevik government's adopted budget, he forgets that the Stortinge has also adopted a new scheme for funding research on tax incentives. We still don't know the total outcomes of that, then there has to be someone here who is able to see more into the crystal than others. Only when the year is over can we have the opportunity to evaluate that plan. Otherwise, I would like to say to the Minister of Fisheries and to the Stortinget that we are a privileged nation that has both these God-given industries to take care of, both oil and fish. That is why I also focused a little on the environmental aspect of my article. We must not get into the situation that we get fish in oil, but that in the future we also do things to develop both industries hand in hand. In conclusion, then, my small appeal to the Minister for Fisheries is that I think some oil companies have in fact escaped the possibility of providing adequate research resources that the Norwegian research communities can compete for on a free basis, in order to ensure a future good environment, research on long-term effects and remedies for what may be of emissions and other things from the oil business. Thus, there will be no misunderstandings and fears in the Norwegian population and in international opinion as compared to the fact that we still have a safe, good and clean environment, and that the products coming from Norway are of the same quality in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e643	Let me first of all thank you for an exciting debate and for the fact that the representative Voie raised the debate. I think it is both useful and important that we carry out such debates from time to time in the Stortingen, and that we come up with opinions that are at least useful for me to take further into account in the work that I do every day. I think it may be necessary to remind at least the representatives of the Workers' Party of the interaction between public efforts, such as, among other things. This is reflected in the allocation of the State budget and the private effort, as well as the focus of the industry, and last but not least the general belief in the potential of the marine sector. The government has the ambition to reach the OECD average in 2005, and it remains. But to answer some of the questions that were raised, although most of it seems to be what we agree on, I would first like to say to the representative, Gaundal, when you use the government's bad research policy as an example, that we in the government budget cut $3 million. kr on Fisheries Research in Tromsø, in which case there is a priority I have no problem with. So it was a cut on the rent to Stadsbyg. If this is the example of the Workers' Party in the government's inadequate research policy, I have no problem defending it. Fishing research in Tromsø has not been affected. So to the representative Olav Aksensen, who was concerned that it had been cut in the year's budget. I would like to emphasise that the 2001–2002 budget for marine research has not been cut. It is cut in relation to what the Workers' Party presented, but then I also remember that there were some unpaid bills, not least on the fishing side, cf. e.g. the transfer of the Coastal Works to Ålesund, which had not been included in the budget, and which this government had to contribute to paying. But in research there is an increase. So when the representative Akselsen describes it as ‘good Christmas and good New Year’ from the Government, the representative Akselsen should have been more out there listening to what is going on – it has been seen out there as a good New Year’s Day greeting. Troms Marine Yngel could have been well worth visiting -- you'd have seen what enthusiasm it is there on the basis of what we're doing in this house -- further Cod Culture Norway out in Eyegarden, which a few weeks ago opened a tortoise mill where private investors have gone in with 50 million. kr, and Biomarint Forum established in Bergen on Tuesday, where private investors make 400 million. kr. It is precisely the good wishes for Christmas and good new year from the Government that bear forth. We are triggering both funds for research and development and enthusiasm and belief in the future in the marine sector. Then I think maybe you should take over the reality also in the Workers' Party. So, in the case of PROTEVS, in order to get it out, the Ministry of Fisheries through the Institute of Marine Research and the Institute of Nutrition of the Directorate of Fisheries has contributed its share to establishing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e661	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e679	The possibilities of increasing domestic use of gas appear to be very high. It is therefore important that we allow ourselves to have both vision and implementation. In the opinion of the Working Party, the domestic use of gas in 10 years' time should be about 10 pst. of the total production. Many say that the century we're at the beginning of will be the century of gas. I think so, too, at least the first part of this century. Later, we'll probably also get other forms of energy, like hydrogen. And in such a development, the gas will also play an important role as a bridge to the hydrogen society. The Stoltenberg government did a number of things that I hope and believe have contributed positively to the continuation of the work on putting natural gas into use. We must be ambitious and visionary when we develop the gas policy of the future. At a time when industrial jobs are lost and many businesses are struggling, it is important that we invest even more in forward-looking industries, in research and infrastructure. With the huge gas resources we have off our coast, we're the third largest producer of gas in Europe; in ten years we'll probably be the largest. Then we can't settle for just using under 1 pst. of the gas seam. We can no longer be a primary nation in this field. If we keep doing that, we're going to miss an enormous amount of value creation. If we look at the entire value chain, from the borehole on the sea bed to the consumers in Europe, it's a disappearing little part of the value chain we produce in Norway today. When the gas has been processed in various ways and reaches consumers, the price of the raw material that has joined the product has been multiplied by the price at which we sell the gas. And that's some of the added value we have to do in Norway. Industry can improve its competitiveness by using natural gas but lacks access to the resource. On the other hand, access has been made by competitors in Europe. This enables them to increase their production and value creation by using gas. I believe that this is also of great importance for the national economy, because no country can lead the economy without a well-functioning energy sector, where consumers and business are offered the right form of energy at a competitive price. It was such a thought that was at the root of the electrification of Norway a hundred years ago. Now natural gas must have the role that hydropower played at the time for the development and construction of new industries. Increased use of natural gas needs to be facilitated within the framework of our climate commitments. Through the Kyoto Protocol and the Gothenburg Protocol, we have committed ourselves to reducing emissions, among others. CO2 and NOx. Replacing other fossil fuels with natural gas will bring great environmental benefits. I would like to mention briefly some measures in which the use of natural gas can contribute to reducing climate change emissions. We need to use more natural gas in transport, with special emphasis on ferries and larger vessels.We should electrify the North Sea to replace low-efficiency gas power plants on each platform – and I will come back to that.We should use gas more for heating instead of oil and coal. In order to strengthen the innovation and development of environmentally friendly energy based on natural gas, it is necessary, in the view of the Workers' Party, to establish a company that ensures that the necessary technological developments are forced and commercialised. This is also one of the main measures proposed by the Gas Technology Committee. The Workers' Party will follow up its previous proposal to set up such a company in Grenland. In our view, it would be more sensible to pool resources on this in one place. As I understand the Gas Technology Committee, they also believe that it is best to set up a single company, without having taken a position on where it should be. We believe that the environment that all exists in Grenland is the best starting point for such a company. This is about a strong industrial environment, with a lot of competence, and it's an area of the country that now needs a few more legs to stand on. But let me make it clear: that doesn't mean that everything is going to happen in Grenland, but, as I said, in our opinion, the innovation company should be there. Then we believe that the company alone or together with other environments should take initiatives for research and development projects, product development, development of infrastructure and commercialisation of technologies that ensure optimal environmental exploitation of natural gas. It should also contribute to at least establishing a pilot plant for pollution-free gas power plants by 2005. I noticed that Statoil has signaled that the most current place will be Kårstø, and we do not mind that. But I still believe that an innovation company can be a necessary birth aid to also put in place pilot plants. In addition to research and development, it is essential that the infrastructure for domestic transport is strongly developed. I therefore want the Council of State to say something about the Government's willingness to spend a good deal of money to get this in place, because it is necessary for the state to contribute subsidies, I think, if this is to become a reality. We therefore believe that state aid for infrastructure should be stepped up. We could, for example, think that Enova was given this task in addition to those they have today, but it is not going to be overstepped for the important tasks they are assigned to run today. But where it's put, it's not crucial. Several places in the country now have concrete plans for the construction of gas pipelines, and not least through these companies there is now a need for clear signals as to whether one can expect any support for any of these projects. We in the Workers' Party also believe, as I said, that there should be state support for the construction of several ferries and also some buses with gas as fuel, and I would also like to hear the views of the Council of State on this. So to another very important point: we believe that there is a urgent need to launch a project in collaboration with the petroleum industry and operators in the energy industry about electrification of the North Sea, to replace the small gas power plants on the base. If we succeed in this, I believe that this is an environmental project of a special class, which deserves our attention. This can also be crucial to meeting our commitments in relation to the Kyoto agreement – which we should definitely do. For us in the Workers' Party, there are two values that are important, that's the value of creating and that's the value of sharing. We continue to face many challenges in the development of the welfare state. It's going to be a challenge to be able to share resources fairly, but the challenge of creating values is going to be at least the same. Much of our industry also depends on the continued expansion of oil and gas fields. That's why it's important that we act predictablely in that area as well. But above all, it is important that we are able to create new and long-term industrial jobs. Only in that way can we create values, so we have something to divide. Especially in those areas where Norway has a predominance, we need to be able to create more. And we should be able to do that when it comes to putting our gas into use. If we are to achieve results, we are dependent on having an active industrial policy. Then we also need a government commitment, especially in research and infrastructure development. This is nothing new. The state has always played a central role in the development of infrastructure, such as rail, roads, ports, power lines and telecommunications networks. There should be no fundamental difference in the development of natural gas infrastructure. If industry, oil companies and we politicians are afraid to bet and make the long-term strategic decisions, I think we are ahead of a fast and exciting development in this area. It is necessary for the creation of value added and employment, and not least for environmental reasons. It will be interesting to hear what the Council of State will do to ensure that such projects can be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e721	The representative Sylvia Brustad has addressed a very important topic, which has received great attention in many environments, especially along our coast, and not least created expectations. Int. S. No 122 for 1999-2000 asked the Stortinget Government to develop a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway. A strategy for domestic use of gas was presented in a separate part of the 2001 budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, Part III. The Committee had no concrete comments on this report in the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, but gave the following general comments: ‘The Committee refers to the decision of the Stortingen concerning the treatment of St.meldning. No 29 On energy policy, where the Stortinget asked the Government to develop a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway. [[1998 - 1999]] The Committee refers to Chapter III of Part III. 7, domestic use of natural gas and to national transport plan chapter. 7.4.1. on natural gas ferries as fuel. In addition, the Committee will ask the Government to draw up its own monitoring report on the overall strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway.’ The majority comment of the population is now followed up by a broad review of the various key issues related to domestic gas use. I intend to provide a big message on domestic use of gas in June 2002, which I have also previously announced. The issues currently addressed by Mr Brustad’s representative in his interview will be discussed in depth and further clarified in this communication. Domestic gas use is linked to three main issues: use of gas for stationary energy use of gas for industrial purposes in the transport sector. The interpellant was concerned with all three of these key issues. I am going to make a detailed discussion of the possibility of using gas in all three areas in the notification. In the transport sector, natural gas is an environmentally friendly alternative to conventional fuels in parts of the transport market. Use of gas in heavier urban vehicles, e.g. in buses, will provide clear emission reductions. The transition from diesel to ferry gas also results in significant reductions in emissions, especially of nitrous gases, but also of CO2. The government wants to pursue an active policy in this area. We wish, among other things: stimulating the transition to 0-emission cars or cars with other environmentally friendly solutions, e.g. natural gas. Furthermore, as a general rule, new ferries are to be built for natural gas and gas ferries are to be deployed in conjunction with it. In the case of gas to the industry, the methanol factory on the Tjeldbergodden is a dominant example. It stands for over 90 pst. of the domestic use of natural gas and contributes to increased value creation through the use of gas. There are several very exciting industrial applications for natural gas, including: the production of bioproteins could contribute to increased value creation. In Norway, with the high availability of hydropower, up to the last few years, one has had little tradition of evaluating alternatives to electricity in terms of energy supply. Electricity has replaced a large proportion of the oil fire by high charges on fuel oil. In this context, the management of the power balance is the main challenge in terms of energy supply. The power balance has been significantly weakened in recent years, leading to a more vulnerable energy supply for dry years. I would like to refer here to the subsequent interpellation of the representative of Klungland, where I would like to address these questions in more detail. The government believes that comprehensive action across a broad field is important in order to improve the power balance. Investment in the distribution and use of natural gas could be an important element in such a context. Europe has over 20 years of experience in the use of natural gas for energy purposes. The figures from the International Energy Agency show that about 62 pst. of the total gas consumption in the European OECD countries in 1999 was for heating purposes in industry, households and public buildings and offices. 25 pst. was used for power and heat production. If developments in Norway follow European developments, growth in the use of gas will primarily take place in the supply of stationary energy. Both the use of gas, new renewable energy sources, heat pumps and waste heat compete with electricity in the stationary energy supply. As a result, we can get a system of double and maybe even triple infrastructure for energy supply, i.e. electricity, waterborne heat and gas. The one-sided effort we have today on electricity through hydropower can be history, and therefore we need to have a system where the competition between different energy carriers becomes right. The competitive relationship between the different energy sources is influenced by several factors. For example, the electricity tariff and the way it is constructed will be an important factor in whether other energy sources will be profitable. Other factors affecting competition are taxes and duties or any exemptions from them. The income regulation of the network also affects the competitive interface between different energy sources. Increased use of natural gas will play a very important role in the conversion of energy use and energy production. The forthcoming gas use notification will further assess who should manage the follow-up to this gastight operation. This has also been asked by the Government. The Communication aims to give a thorough discussion of critical factors for the use of natural gas in Norway. Such critical factors include: be environment, infrastructure regulation and financing. All of this also took Sylvia Brustad up in her post. An important aspect of the use of gas is the environmental benefits. Transition from more polluting fossil fuels to natural gas results in lower emissions of both particulate matter, NOx and CO2. The fact that gas is more environmentally friendly than many alternatives is an important prerequisite for the gas siting of the Government. The government will now shortly submit an additional message to the Climate Change Communication. The relationship with national measures, national allowances system, demonstrable progress in 2005 and the principle of green tax will be central to this additional communication. The follow-up to the Gothenburg Protocol is another main field of action. A wide range of activities such as: aims at clarifying the instruments to be used, and there are many ministries participating in this work. In addition, local environmental challenges are being given increased focus. In addition to tackling CO2 emissions, NOx emissions have been a particular challenge in managing gas power plant emission permits. In larger cities, the challenge is related to local air quality. It appears, among other things, that maintenance, which is an important energy source in Norway, contributes strongly to the particle content of air. However, natural gas contributes to positive environmental impacts when replaced by other fossil fuels. As mentioned above, through international environmental agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol and the Gothenburg Protocol, Norway has committed itself to reducing its emissions of environmentally harmful substances. It is therefore necessary to adapt the domestic natural gas investment to these objectives and to contribute to the achievement of the objectives in the most cost-effective way. Any regulation will have a significant impact on the operation and investment of the natural gas infrastructure. It must also be seen in the context of the regulation of the transmission system for electricity. The Gas Market Directive also provides important guidance for the use of gas in Norway, and it is necessary to look at how this can best be implemented in Norwegian law. The Sem Declaration states that in an introduction and development phase for the use of gas in Norway, public support will be required for the development of gas infrastructure. However, it is also pointed out that the support must be within the framework of our international environmental commitments. The forthcoming Single Payment Communication will discuss both different forms of financing and regulation. I therefore expect that there is an understanding that at this stage I cannot say anything more specific about these issues, but I intend to present proposals for policies in these areas in the Communication. I would also like to come back to a number of the issues and questions raised by Stortinget, and now the representative Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e787	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that the Council of State said that the Government also wants an active policy in this area. There is a need and urgent action is needed. The question is also, how quickly does the Government think this can happen? And what kind of drag does the government want to put on that, and then I think about the financial as well? So, of course, we know that the big message comes in June, and there we get some clarifications. But my question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State see that it is possible – because there are some areas here that I think it is obvious that there is quite a consensus – to be able to take some decisions, for example. in the context of the budget, before we have completed the processing of the message? Because even though the Stortinget is being treated in June, I would assume that it will most likely not be completed until near Christmas, and in the meantime we also have a government budget for treatment. At least I want to signal from the Labour Party that it must be possible to imagine a parallel race here. Of course, it is possible to deal with this gas message in parallel with the fact that one also assesses measures already in the government budget for next year, and I would like to hear how the government thinks about it. When we also care about it, it's because for example. Hydro, with which the Council of State is certainly familiar, has signaled that one now wants an innovation company for Grenland. At least we support it, and I have seen that the Landsorganisation and the NHO and others. has also given its support to it. And I could imagine asking the Council of State – I understand that the Council of State will not specify any place in this debate, even if I wish it – if he looks after one or more companies. That, I think, is quite a substantial clarification. Then I also interpret the Council of State so that at least he is not negative about spending money on infrastructure, and I think that is also absolutely necessary for this to be real. I also want to ask the Council of State to elaborate on something more electrification in the North Sea, which we believe for our part is urgent, and that a project is being initiated in cooperation with the actors in the area to speed it up. Of course, we are aware that this is also related to something we will talk about a little later today. But it's important not least for environmental reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e798	Let me first say that I am pleased with the commitment that Sylvia Brustad has on behalf of the Workers' Party in this matter. It is obvious that this is a very important matter. It can have a major impact on both employment and value creation, but also on the environment. Made in the right way by one, which I was in my first post, replacing more polluting fuels and energy sources with what is more natural and environmentally friendly, namely gas, that means that we are taking a step closer to the international commitments we have made, and also to the local environment. So I fully agree with the representative Brustad in is a matter of great national importance. Then it is also important that one is able to bring together the broadest possible majority of the Stortinget behind such a strategy. Much of what Sylvia Brustad said in her first post, and what she is now trying to invite me to put into practice in my second post is thoughts and visions that are completely consistent with my own – I can assure you that. I am asking for understanding that I will be able to address to a limited extent specific answers to the issues she has now addressed, but I will say something about some of these issues. One is about gas power plants, CO2-free gas power plants or what the Gas Technology Committee wants us to say, namely gas power plants with CO2 handling – then the time will show if this is going through, I have to bet every time I say it! It's important to get this work started, and I talked to the head of the Gas Technology Committee as late as yesterday. Although the perspectives and timing of these initiatives and their assessments may be slightly different, we fully agree that in the case of pilot plants/demonstration facilities, a start should be made as soon as possible. I have a good dialogue with Statoil, and it is probably possible that I will come back to Stortinget earlier than with the progress plan that has been notified through the gas message. I will reserve the right to put this into practice then. This will mean that we may have to set aside funds already this year so that we can get this pilot/demonstration plant started at the earliest possible time in relation to what Statoil is able to respond to. As far as the innovation company is concerned, I understand without a doubt that there is involvement in several places in the country, including in Grenland. I myself have been to Grenland and said that Grenland is a clear candidate for such a location. I keep all possibilities open. I don't want to answer if it's going to be one or more, but if there's a division of tasks that makes sense, it might be that one can imagine maybe one or two or more for that part, depending on what is practical. In the case of electrification, the government comes back to this, among other things. in the additional notification to the climate communication, which is due in a short time. And as far as infrastructure is concerned, there will be further discussion in the gas staging message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e811	Norway has been producing natural gas for 24 years for exports and is the third largest producer of natural gas in Europe. But when it relates to the consumption of natural gas, Norway is still at an early start. So we're going to use about 1 pst. of total consumption in Europe. Making more use of natural gas could contribute to the good development of both technology and industry. At the same time, increased use of natural gas will lead to a better environment. That is why the Labour Party took action and put this matter on the agenda. First came the Henriksen Committee, which was a collaboration between the Labour Party and the LO. Then came the Stoltenberg administration with the Gas Technology Selection, which has just presented the setting. Right after this debate, the Stortinget will discuss the balance of power. Here it's important to see things in context. If we are to be able to meet the need for force in the future while meeting our obligations under the Kyoto agreements, we must do what we can to get CO2-free gas power plants going as quickly as possible. We'll have to bet on research, but increasing bets on research is not enough. We also have to make sure that this research gets power and direction. Here, the various periods and activities such as research and development, commercialisation and introduction need to be coordinated. In the same way as the Henriksen selection, the Gas Technology Selection is in favour of the creation of a state-owned innovation company for the development of environmentally friendly gas-based energy technologies. The Labour Party already entered into budgetary proceedings in order for such an innovation company to be established in Grenland. Here, the government party was a little bit more hesitant and wanted to do so. not say clearly whether there should be one or more innovation companies. I note that the Council of State will not be more specific on this issue today either. I interpret the government-reduced Gas Technology Selection as being in favour of one company and that this company must manage the main weight of public efforts within all relevant areas, including: both the development of CO2 free gas power plants and hydrogen as an important energy bearer. Norway is the country of opportunity, and one of the opportunities we have is to get in the way of developing new technologies – technologies that can bring us into a new era and help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But if we are to do so, we cannot leave responsibility to industry alone. Here, the public and the private must play on layers, and we must venture to bet. This may lead to increased use of gas in Norway as a basis for both industrial and knowledge development and a better environmental policy. Let's talk about this possibility together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e826	I wonder about the urgency of the representative Brustad in his interpellation. This issue is not least related to an innovation centre. Because isn't it true that she herself is part of a party that has been in government position for several years and has all the world's opportunities to address the issues she is addressing now? Then it is strange that she cannot wait for a proper treatment of the gas message. I might see her interpellation and other games in this context as an attempt to sneak into Grenland as a location for the establishment of an innovation company for the development of environmentally friendly technology. I agree with the interpellant that it is urgent to use gas in this country. Unfortunately, this may be the case in this area as in others, that in Norway we are a commodity supplier rather than processing products and thereby increasing domestic value creation. It is important to change this trend, and there are many good arguments in favour of a constructive and targeted focus on the further development of gas. With the reserves over the country, most people expect we'll be able to have gas for at least a hundred years in the future. In my own home country, Rogaland, we are very concerned about these issues for many reasons. Firstly, Rogaland is the centre of gravity in the oil and gas industry. It implies that there is a very high level of competence and active business activity in this county in the energy field. For example, Light Kraft has recently adopted the investment of a gas pipeline to be installed from Statoil’s facilities on Kårstø to Nord-Jären and a natural gas distribution network to be clear by 2004. Furthermore, a separate energy park is created in Risavika at Stavanger, which is behind Lyse, Shell and Statoil. It's worth noting that while everyone else is talking about using natural gas, Rogaland, and not least North Rogaland, has done something about it. North Rogaland has a long tradition of using natural gas. The natural gas is preferred not only for environmental reasons but primarily because it is competitive and provides lower operating costs than, for example: oil. The company Gasnor in Haugesund has been supplying gas in the nearby Haugaland area for many years. In addition, the company has now decided to build an LNG plant at Haugesund, which is due to be completed in 2002, making it more accessible in a larger domestic market. The gas centre in Haugesund has also existed for many years and has been working on problems to promote increased exploitation of our gas resources. The gas terminal at Kårstø and Haugalandand has one of the few heavy international research environments in gas, the so-called K-lab at Kårstø. And the company Gasco, which manages and supervises the gas transport network in the North Sea and has strong expertise in the field of gas, is also located in Karmøy and Haugaland. Thus, with regard to the establishment of a possible innovation centre, there are several elements that need to be taken into account in relation to the location chosen. I would like to begin by believing that environments that are currently competent and economically strong may have the best conditions for success in terms of good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e845	Too little of our gas resources are being used domestically today, as both the interpellant and others have pointed out quite correctly. Increased domestic use of gas both as an energy source and as a raw material will, of course, lead to increased value creation in Norwegian hands and contribute to a better balance in the domestic energy market. In addition, it also has clear positive environmental impacts. Two years ago the Storting dealt with the energy message, and in this connection it was written very positively, and said a lot positive from this pulp, on this subject, but unfortunately we have later seen very few results. I said from this pulpit two years ago that what had happened with regard to domestic use of gas was, rather, done in spite of the central authorities than with the help of the central authorities. It's unfortunately a fact that my claims are even more true today. However, there is a light point. The size has managed to gather around a proposal to ask the Government to return to Stortinget with its own notification of domestic use of gas, which the Government has now announced will arrive in June. It has also been confirmed by the Council of State today. It is my hope that, in dealing with this, we will have much better conditions for the use of gas both as a source of energy, in the transport sector and as raw materials in industry. The interpellant highlights research and development in the gas sector, as well as domestic gas infrastructure. Of course, I'm positive with this, but I think it's kind of surprising that it comes from the Workers' Party. Last year I promoted our proposal to set up a petroleum and energy research fund of NOK 10 billion, where the return would go to relevant research projects. The proposal was not supported at the time, so I re-examined the proposal in connection with the budget procedure in the autumn, but this time it was only supported by the Progress Party. In the autumn budgetary procedure, I also made a proposal to close the doubling of the budget line to support the construction of gas infrastructure – even at that time we did not get an impact. It is of course positive that the Labour Party and the representative Brustad have now finally seen the sense of such measures, and I would like to welcome them after. On this basis, I look forward to the consideration of the gas communication and the next budgetary procedure in order to confirm whether both the Workers' Party and the Government really mean something with what they claim here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e864	The inter-pellant approach to the gas issue is well integrated into the range of examples of a lack of understanding of future challenges. The main challenge is not how to use more natural gas in Norway. No, the challenge is to transform the production of both goods and services into a more sustainable society without the use of fossil fuels. The challenge for business, as well as for us politicians, is to find out the necessary grips that will give us more efficient energy use by using the right type of energy for the right purpose. I have said that before, and I would like to repeat it: it is not reasonable to use direct electricity for home heating. Technical Weekly could report on 1 March that the Swedish government is now considering introducing a ban on electric heating in new houses from 2005. Think if Norway could also soon have a more forward-looking energy policy! In my opinion, it is directly embarrassing that an energy nation like Norway does not have any more sense. The interpellant is completely turning the problem on its head. Instead of saying that we have to use natural gas and then figure out what we are going to use it for, we should first take a complete look at the whole energy situation in Norway and ask ourselves: how can we ensure an energy supply that is compatible with the climate policy commitments we have undertaken through the Kyoto Protocol? And how can we facilitate the development of energy supply that is compatible with the more stringent emission requirements expected in the post-Kyoto period from 2012? This would be forward-looking thinking! Moreover, it is not as the interpellant suggests that there is a need to go on a massive development of natural gas infrastructure – or fossil gas, as I prefer to call it – in order to get to the hydrogen community. The development of fossil gas infrastructure can, on the contrary, be a hindrance to this. It has not been stated that gas infrastructure – pipes, pumps, valves, gaskets, materials, etc. – may be used for hydrogen. Then it can be thought that the owners have some counter-conceptions against resolving this after a few years. The fight against the creation of fossil gas infrastructure will be the major environmental battle in the years to come. In this context, it is interesting that Enova now recommends the transport of gas by boat instead of through expensive pipelines. This is at least a signal that there is someone who will not touch the future, but who understands the energy challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e878	Norway is in a uniquely privileged situation with regard to natural resources. The majority of countries have such a long-term perspective in relation to key natural resources that Norway has. It gives us enormous opportunities and great challenges in terms of how to make the best use of these, even in relation to future generations. It is on the gas side that Norway has the greatest challenges and opportunities. We're in possession of huge gas resources. Most of it is likely to be mapped, but there are still enough significant undiscovered reserves. This gives us great opportunities for exploiting a resource that can mean a great deal to a number of sectors and be an important contribution to a more environmentally oriented policy, if it is used correctly. The inter-pellant's concerns are largely of a broad disintegration. To date, we have exported the main weight of the gas and only to a limited extent put it into domestic use. With the coming gas message notified by the Government, a new epoch for the country is launched as a gas nation. Today, there is a broad political consensus that in the future, we will have to use gas for various domestic purposes related to transport, industrial processes and also for electricity production. The latter is still controversial, not least in the light of the gas power debate, which has shown considerable disagreement as to the role of gas as an electricity factor and the technological solutions to be chosen. However, in the context of the necessary modernisation and upgrading of established hydroelectric power stations and other measures, these are important elements of the debate on the possible electrification of all or part of the Norwegian base, a debate that needs to come about on the possibilities of reducing CO2 emissions from our oil and gas installations. Increased use of natural gas could be a major factor in improving environmental policies, in particular those relating to transport and industrial production. The gas will replace the use of more polluting energy carriers such as oil and coal. It can further trigger a trend towards even more environmentally friendly energy carriers, such as: hydrogen for use in transport in particular. We know that there are interesting projects under development for the use of hydrogen, among other things. in the case of bus transport. I would like to refer to the Green Hydrogen project at the Notodden in Telemark. Industry wants and needs more gas supply. The need for gas infrastructure development is a large number of sites in the country. Along the coast, we have industry that can be ensured more environmentally friendly production using natural gas to replace oil and coal, and therefore, in relation to our major challenges related to the Kyoto Agreement, it is necessary to facilitate access for the industry to our gas resources. It will also be an important contribution to ensuring and preferably further developing the Norwegian land-based industry. In this context, State authorities must also contribute to the construction of such an infrastructure. However, there is reason to point out how important it is that what we can call a new era of domestic gas use comes in an environmentally sustainable way. This means that we must take account of the fact that the work on wind, sun and waterborne heat is to be continued and preferably strengthened, despite the increasing use of domestic natural gas. I feel confident that the Government in the work on the gas message will also take this into account. The question of the location of an innovation centre – as several speakers have pointed out – we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e893	Our oil and gas policies have been successful in most respects, but we deliver too much as raw materials. Political decisions are needed to change it. There are now very many who are waiting for decisions on increasing domestic use of natural gas. There are great expectations, at least along the whole coast. That's why it's good to have such an interpellation like this, which helps to get a little bit of speed on the process, and it's good with the progress that the government has promised. But we need decisions that are concrete enough to make something happen. For many years I can see the fear and the inconclusiveness of the decision. I also believe that this government has special problems in this area. First, there is the fear of actively using state ownership. This government says we should sell state-owned shares in companies and place the money in funds that can be active owners. Then I'm in doubt as to what direction evolution is going to go. I believe that we cannot afford to wait for such an unnecessary round of penalties. It's going to be a coward's round of punishment so that the Right will get its will to get through its ideology. I'm going to use the Worm Lange gas and the landing of it as an example. Here sits Petoro, principal, here sits Statoil, almost principal, and here sits Hydro, and they have a large majority. Together, they can simply implement what I think is the will of this House, that the gas should be landed. Instead, it is used to determine if it is to be landed. It's unnecessary. Those companies could be told to cooperate, cooperate to achieve what we want. Next time, they should be informed that it is a joint responsibility to help us get this gas technology company that we now need. We should have gotten that a long time ago. The next fear that plagues this government is the fear of using the country's capital strength for what is now mentioned. I mention three areas: the first is the infrastructure to land and distribute the gas in the best places. The next area is developing the new technology needed to build non-polluting gas power plants to create and produce fish feed that we absolutely need. In these areas, Norway may be able to enter the urban area. The third area is using the gas where we have known technology, in ferries, in buses and in dwellings. The centre party is in favour of a high level of government involvement when it is in the best interests of the environment, but we do not agree to the construction of gaseous power plants. Nor do we agree that we should have so much uncertainty about what is happening in the Barents Sea, until we give a clear signal for what can happen there. We believe that we need to spend as much money as we need to speed this up. We believe that the ambitions of the Workers' Party from their investigations were too small, that is, the return of 10 billion. We might need more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e913	It would create greater tension in this room if I had now completely disagreed with the interpellant. However, I am not. There is no doubt that natural gas offers us unique opportunities in this country. The question is just how we can combine the use of natural gas with an environmentally friendly profile. It's important not to become a commodity nation. It is important to ensure that we get an increase in value in our country, and therefore it is so important that we take full speed to try to develop environmentally friendly solutions for the use of natural gas. That's why I'm very pleased that, as far as Snow White is concerned, there was a broad consensus that, in the context of giving a clear signal, we are also very much stressing about launching a pilot project to try to solve environmental problems using gas as an energy carrier. There are many industrial purposes for which it is important to get natural gas. That is why we also agree that there should be an innovation centre. However, my experience and my lessons are that you should not take the localization questions until you get a comprehensive overview of what we want to achieve, where you have the best opportunities, and how to make sure that this really gets a good deal of pressure, so that you get to a good solution as quickly as possible. It is surprising that some parties – in this case represented by Morten Lund – have such enormous faith that if only the state comes in, this will be very good. My starting point is that the State must contribute to some infrastructure measures. The State must be a driving force in research and development. I am very pleased that the Government has put a lot of money into researching the reduction of CO2 emissions from our future gas power plants, but it must be that projects to be implemented have to be largely profitable, and you have to be sure that there will be a proper assessment of the profitability of these projects in the future. That's why I think it's important for the state to be involved, to help get things going, but that it needs to be constantly assessed against private users, private investors, to ensure good profitability. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party in its interpellation did not take up the fact that these should be preeminent businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e924	Just a few things now on the tap, before the government council is going back up and responding to the interference. We'll have an opportunity to get back to the theme. Like Vaggen Malvik from SV, among others. were concerned: how is the strategy further developed in relation to the use of gas on land? Should the strategy be that the co-operation government chooses to cooperate with parties that do not have an increasing focus on the climate issue? There must be a hard question to answer. The climate message is about to come, and in that it is not useful to have multiples for an increase in emissions, that greenhouse gases should only increase. One must have an idea at the bottom that we have to do something about the growth we have in energy consumption. That's where the main challenge lies. The councils were in on a couple of these moments, among other things. electrification, but SV can also bring with it other things: energy efficiency improvement and alternative renewable energy. There is a lot of alternative that does not create climate problems, and that should be the most important thing to bet on, not least – I believe – for a party that has previously claimed that the climate problem was important, and that it was very important to get something done about it, and that therefore one did not want to build highly impurity gas power plants, which one now builds on the Snow White field – probably. My challenge to the Council of State is: Will we now have a policy change in line with the Kyoto agreement and in line with the climate problems that we have to solve, or will the solution be a co-operation partner for the Government that is primarily busy using gas, but is not so much busy with the consequences of evaporating gas? I'm going to believe that for the Left and Christian People's Party this should be simple, but now it's one in government, and then it's not that simple, it's turned out. So my main challenge to State Council Steensnæs is this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e933	I think it has been a good debate, and I think it has actually also been a rather clarifying debate, because if the words that have been said from this pulpit are followed up – and I choose to believe that – there is a broad majority in this Chamber who support the thoughts that I had on behalf of my party in relation to this interpellation to increase the use of natural gas domestically. I am very pleased that the Council of State said that his thoughts and visions were similar to those I had. I think that is also a good promise for the further treatment and follow-up of this case. Then I heard the Council of State still say that he ‘keeps all opportunities open’ in terms of innovation companies. That's what I'm trying to interpret to the effect that the Council of State is thinking of more than one company. I just want to say that once we've already landed on the fact that one company is right, it's because we're a small country, with not too many environments, and we don't think it'll be lucky to split this up too much. This does not mean, however, that it should not cooperate with other environments, or that things should not be put in different places in the country, whether it is Rogaland or elsewhere, but as I said, we believe that this company should have been added to Grenland. Then I must say I was surprised at the contribution of the representative Meling, who was wondering about the urgency of the Workers' Party, and thought it intended to ‘snake in Grenland’. First of all, I don't think anyone can blame me for being able to ‘snag Grenland’ in any way if there wasn't a majority for it. And secondly, I might have believed, and had expected, that there was a slightly more positive attitude that several were actually concerned with increasing domestic use of natural gas. We put down a sample under the direction of the LO and the Workers' Party, which gave off their position last summer. After that time, we have further clarified it, and we have also tried, as the representatives in this room are familiar with, to further work concretely on how this should be followed up. I am very pleased that both the representative of Onarheim and the Council of State had a more constructive approach to the initiative that the Labour Party has also taken on this point, because I believe that this can actually lead to us getting it. But I'm a little surprised that different representatives from the same government party say so different things. So let's go to SV's input. It must be quite clear, as I also said in my main post, that when we add up to this, it is within the framework of our climate obligations. Actually, it's pretty solid. I also believe that if we manage to replace more polluting fuels, e.g. with gas on boats and ferries, it is good for the environment. I believe that electrification of the North Sea is an environmental project in a special class, and only with the projects that I am familiar with are at least under planning or work now, can one execute about 50 pst. of the obligations we have promised that we will deal with precisely that. Then we have CO2-free gas power plants, which there is a broad majority to try to get to, and to use the gas as a bridge to the hydrogen community. All of this I think is good for the environment. This, however, must be a good thing to combine also with industrial policy, with jobs and industry, but there is no doubt that environmental policy is present to the greatest extent in relation to what the Workers' Party thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e944	Of course, there are a number of important challenges that need to be addressed in the notification of increased gas use in Norway, which the Stortinget will then address. In line with what Sylvia Brustad said in his first post, a sufficient investment in particular will meet the challenge of investing in skills and infrastructure. I must then be allowed to come back to that. Compared to what has gathered the hall in a broad majority behind the increased use of gas in Norway, I am pleased that something very important was also pointed out in the closing round, namely that all this effort must take place within a sound environmental framework and in line with the climate commitments undertaken by Norway. I think that the representative Vaggen Malvik addressed some important issues related to these challenges, challenges that Hallgeir H. Langeland also underlined. I agree that those reasons must lie at the bottom, and I am also pleased that Sylvia Brustad underlined it in the closing insert. Morten Lund thought that we had an unnecessary fear of state ownership, and I must say it carefully so that if state ownership is to be exercised in the way that Morten Lund now expressed, I acknowledge my absolute fear of state ownership. If that's what's going to be at the bottom, if we're going to dictate a landing solution without knowing the costs, without having any comparative basis, I guess that's going to be against all the rules of good administration. There is no doubt that a single hall – I assume – will want a landing solution for the Worm Lange, with the opportunities it will provide for value creation, employment and further development. But it has to be done on a sound financial basis and not through a dictatorship of companies owned by the state either 100 pst. or partly. With regard to this innovation centre, or the gas technology centre, to which there has been a great deal of attention, I notice that Sylvia Brustad repeats that this is the Workers' Party's proposal. I have received very many enquiries from prominent workers' party representatives, at the latest yesterday from two union product rapporteurs, and otherwise a group, on this very proposal. I assume that it is such that it is the Workers' Party's big group that stands together behind this. But it is the views of others in the Workers' Party that are also expressed to me, both in writing and orally. We have to come back to this, and we are well prepared to do so, that in terms of establishment and location, territorial considerations are going to go through. We need both vision and implementation," said Sylvia Brustad in his first post. I fully agree with that, and it is also my ambition to take care of both of these important reasons when, in June, I present the big business message about increasing the use of gas in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e957	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e975	The situation on our power market is serious. We can calculate, based on the information we now have, that prices will explode in the future. The energy nation of Norway will receive sky-high energy prices if nothing is done in relation to access to electricity. The government's attitude has been passive in this regard. The oil and energy minister will, after what he has said now, invest in energy saving and renewable energy sources that in 10 years will cover the deficit we have today. In the first place, such a policy will affect ordinary consumers who will have to pay high electricity bills. In the next round, it will affect the industry that will not receive competitive prices. In doing so, industry will be flagging out to other countries with better conditions, which will result in greater pollution worldwide. For example, in Norway today: not a global environmental contribution to driving an electric car. The force used for this is coal power, which pollutes more than diesel and petrol. We have to stop fooling around by simplifying environmental policy and energy policy. The Labour Party has an energy policy which means that Norway will have the most environmentally friendly energy supply in the world. This objective means that we must be self-sufficient in power. We cannot accept that the Danish increase their CO2 emissions as a result of our passive attitude. In the future, we need to find other sources of energy than those we use today, which are fossil sources. But until then, we have to make use of what is the least polluting, and those energy sources have Norway plenty of. The gap between use and self-production of electricity has now become significant this year with normal amounts of rainfall. The Minister of Oil and Energy wrote to the Committee on Energy and the Environment that in a normal year there was a deficit of 6-7 TWh. This deficit will increase in the years to come if no new energy sources are added to the government’s budget. At the same time, the deficit is now covered by highly polluting coal power from other countries. The energy superpower Norway has actually come into a situation where we rely on other countries to provide electricity to ourselves. The power flows freely between the Nordic countries, and the price is determined by supply and demand. Being self-sufficient in electricity will, of course, mean that prices can be kept down in the long term. At the same time, it would be more environmentally friendly to use Norwegian resources than alternative coal and nuclear power. The working party will focus on energy saving, upgrading existing power plants and grids and on the development of renewable energy sources, such as: bio- and wind power. We will also use natural gas in our energy production. Today, Norway exports the vast majority of natural gas. This export represents a volume corresponding to over 100 gas power plants. On the continent, the gas is primarily used for power generation. It is this type of power generation that the current Minister of Oil and Energy has called ‘strongly polluting’. The same state council says we're importing coal power to cover our power losses. And he says no thanks for building gas power plants. How does this relate? Or is it related at all? It seems that the Council of State and the Government have not taken their responsibility seriously in relation to the energy situation in Norway. Of course, we need to stimulate energy saving in households, in service industries and in industry. There must be a target of limiting the growth of total energy consumption. It is necessary to focus on information, advice and prices of energy-saving measures that make it interesting for consumers to save electricity. Good results require coordinated use of instruments. We also need to facilitate and encourage the use of other energy sources. Where there are no such alternatives, people have to get heat in their houses at an acceptable price anyway, and they have to assume that we live in an energy nation. The working party will therefore stimulate the increased use of other renewable energy, such as bioenergy, heat pumps, industrial waste heat and solar heat. It has been claimed by several that Norway is an energy-depleting nation. Maybe we are. But in that case, we're not worse than our neighbors. The difference between Norway and our neighbouring countries is that we use a lot of electricity, while the others use other energy sources. Every now and then, we seem to be living as lottomillionaires in this country. We have money on book, and that's why we don't focus on the economic value creation of society. We think short-term and wrong. Politicians are chosen to also think in the long term. We need to be able to reconcile ourselves in an energy policy settlement if we are to be able to act as energy politicians. When we treated the Snow White extension, the government opposed electrifying the LNG system. The argument was that we already had a deficit, and that marginal output was coal-based. Then the Council of State argued for gas power plants. I don't see the context of the argument, when we can't cover our energy deficit in the same way. There must be a little dull taste in the mouth of the council when he does not admit that he is today involved in polluting the world's environment more than he needs. It is not useful to say that we have time to wait for CO2-free gas power plants. It is a passive attitude that damages the environment/power balance, which will lead to stable, high electricity prices in this country. So a little bit about the online situation. The size has just dealt with the organisation of Statnett. In connection with that setting, Stortinget agreed that something had to be done with the bottlenecks in the web. These bottlenecks help to increase prices when we have cold days and the consumption is high. I want to challenge the state councils in this area. To repair the network, gas turbines can be installed today, which start when the network is at peak load. This would be a much more reasonable scheme than to deploy the network in a dimension to take the transmission stops. It will also, of course, lead to a lower price for consumers and end-users. If the Council of State is willing to go into such a policy, or if he prefers to have power prices of well over NOK 1 per cent. kWh and zone disconnects in a dry year? I'm just asking. It must be the government's responsibility at the end, and that is the responsibility of the oil and energy minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1009	In line with the Sem Declaration, the Cooperative Government will pursue an energy policy to promote value creation and sustainable development. This also means that the Government takes the development of the Norwegian power balance seriously. Electricity has a dominant place in energy supply in Norway. In the last 10 years, annual electricity consumption has increased by 17 TWh, while annual production capacity has increased by 4 TWh. The very low growth in new production and continued growth in consumption have led Norway from being a net exporter to becoming a net importer of electricity in the normal year. The dominant role of hydropower also means that Norwegian electricity production varies considerably from year to year due to the variations in rainfall. This also makes electricity supply vulnerable to so-called dry years, i.e. years or periods of significantly lower rainfall than normal. Developments in recent years have led to a deterioration in security of supply. In the coming years, there is reason to believe that the force balance will be tighter than it is today. The development time in the power sector is long and the projects that will be completed in the coming years will provide little increase in production capacity. At the same time, there is reason to believe that the growth of electricity consumption will continue despite a strong commitment to energy saving measures. Extensive action across a broad field is important in order to improve the power balance. The purpose of the government is to establish framework conditions for the realisation of CO2-free gas power plants or what is now to be called gas power plants with CO2 management. The industry is invited to work together to achieve future-oriented, environmentally friendly gas power technologies. The invitation is general and is based on the Sem declaration. Natural power has already confirmed that they want to cooperate with the Government to determine the conditions that must be in place to realise CO2-free gas power plants. Furthermore, Statoil has indicated that they are in favour of establishing a pilot/demonstration plant for CO2 capture at one of their installations. As I recently said in Stortinget during the treatment of Snow White LNG, I believe we have time to wait for gas power technology to handle the CO2 emissions before we send gas power to the power grid. In view of this, it is important for the Government to facilitate the increased use of new renewable energy sources such as wind power and bioenergy. It is very important that this massive effort on the use of gas for energy production should not be made at the expense of new, renewable energy sources. We want and have signaled an offensive strategy for the conversion of energy production and consumption. For this we have established a separate company in Trondheim, Enova. Measures to dampen the growth in the use of energy and to achieve a conversion that makes us less dependent on electricity are central. The result shall be an environmentally friendly energy supply using cost-effective instruments. The effort to limit energy consumption and to use heat directly for heating is important in the long term, both for the environment and to become more robust in relation to dry years. It is important that the newly established Energy Fund and Enova have the opportunity to carry out this work in a good and targeted way. In the Sem Declaration, the Government aims to have annual wind power generation equivalent to at least 3 TWh by 2010 and the production of waterborne heat based on new renewable energy sources equivalent to at least 4 TWh per. years. I am pleased that the objectives have been supported by the Storting, which has been committed to funding 5 billion kroner over 10 years to support the conversion. Another part of the Government's commitment to the conversion of energy production is that it wants to make more use of natural gas for domestic use. Natural gas can be used in an environmentally friendly way as an energy source. In this context, the Government will increase public research efforts related to the use of natural gas and hydrogen. In this connection, I refer you to my answers to the interpellation that we have just been through, from the representative Sylvia Brustad. Furthermore, there is still some potential for upgrading and environmentally friendly extensions in the Norwegian hydropower system. The government is aiming to develop this potential even if the epoch of the large hydroelectric power plants is over. In addition to the importance of ensuring the necessary capacity in the domestic production structure, a good transmission system against the rest of the world also contributes to security of power supply. It is available today, among other things: plans for a new cable for the United Kingdom. Furthermore, there are various expansions and improvements to the network in the Nordic region, which are important in this context. According to Statnett, this contributes to the expected increase in the total capacity of exchanges in the Nordic region by 2010. In the situation we are in with regard to the power balance, it is very important that we can have an effective and targeted connection to the Nordic/European power market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1037	In an inter-pelling debate, the Council of State gives the opportunity to also come up with the offensive on questions that have been raised. In that context, I have to say that I'm a little disappointed. I would like to make it clear that the Workers' Party and the Government are not, nor have they been – at least not during this government period – in disagreement about everything that goes on in the EU, that goes on energy saving, renewable energy sources, etc. Where the disagreement is actually now, based on what I heard, is in what one looks like a sustainable development. The working party is also strongly dependent on gas power plants with CO2 reduction measures. But we are actually in a sub-balance now that we are in a position to release more greenhouse gases than we would have needed if we had started with cleaner energy sources. And we have a lot of possibilities. That's why I think it's a cross of thought when, as big-time representatives, we get signals from people who want to build, for example. mini- and micro-power plants, that applications have been in the directorate and department for years without having been dealt with. The Labour Party and the Advance Party also proposed in the budget this autumn that all new renewable energy sources should have the same framework conditions. The challenge to the Council of State must then be, when he sees that we have a great need for new sources of power, and that we need to build up electricity, whether he also sees such a system as interesting in the future, and whether he will at least ensure the continuation of the processing of applications for the development of power, either with positive or negative results. I also have to ask him about CO2-free gas power plants, because there have been different signals: what kind of time perspective does the Council of State have on a full-scale CO2-free gas power plant, and how does he see the situation on the energy market if there is no power building until we are in a situation where we have so-called CO2 reduction measures on gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1050	The representative of Klungland summed it up so far as I could understand that there was no fundamental disagreement between the government parties and the Labour Party as regards the balance of power and what needs to be done in energy policy, except perhaps disagreement as to what is contained in the concept of «sustainable development». If it's the case that we disagree on this, it's actually a pretty serious disagreement, because it makes important assumptions about how we think about energy conversion and energy use. It has a lot to do with what strategy we think of Enova. What if we input new renewable energy sources? I am not quite sure that the representative of Klungland will draw the consequence of disagreement on that concept as far as I am now suggesting, but it could be very interesting to find out what Rolf Terje Klungland said in those words, if we were to agree on the important concept of sustainable development. It must be at the bottom of everything we do to ensure an energy supply and a power balance that does not violate important environmental conditions and international climate agreements. In the case of gas power plants, I was asked what time perspective I see in building so-called gas power plants with CO2 handling. Then I will reply as follows: What is the time perspective for the size and all those who are engaged in the construction of conventional gas power plants, what has been called highly polluting gas power stations, see separately? No one can answer that. The two companies that today have a concession for it, namely Natural Power and Industrial Power Mid-Norway, have said that in the foreseeable future they cannot see for themselves how to build this. It is not that there is a poor balance of power because this government does not take any initiative in building gas power plants, because there are two companies with three concessions that can travel such gas power stations at any time and help improve the power balance. But it's not economics in it. Nor is it currently economics to build gas power plants with CO2 management, because the Government has not intended to enter and subsidise gas power plants. We intend to contribute to the financing of the additional costs that will result from the management of CO2 emissions. In the case of mini and micro power plants, to conclude positively, I fully agree with the interpellant. Here we should simplify the legislation. It makes no sense for people applying for good projects of some 100 kW and up to 1 MW not to receive a timely response. I think we also have to look at the way a treats concessions. I want to take the initiative to raise the concession limit that is currently set at 1 MW assigned to NVE so that the NVE may be able to operate concession treatment facilities of up to 5 MW.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1061	I think it's a very important debate the interpellant is going on here. The main question to the Council of State was: ‘What will the Council of State do to ensure the power balance for Norway in the future?’ The Council of State confirms in its response that security of supply is impaired and that there is little increase in production capacity. It was the announcement to the Storting from the Council of State at this point. I think that is quite serious. We all know the importance of energy for the industrial nation of Norway. And when the imbalance is as great between consumption and production as it is at present, we are at the frontier – probably several times in the course of the year – to zone-wise disconnects. There are zone-wise disconnects and growth in the current price we're facing. So what do we do? Should we lean back and say this isn't so dangerous, this gets to regulate itself? This is where I wish to see a considerably stronger offensive attitude on the part of the Government. Now, the Council of State was a little behind it in its last speech, but it is absolutely crucial how the network capacity works in Norway, in the Nordic market and in relation to the rest of Europe. I have to ask: what initiative will the current government take in order to improve network capacity so that we do not experience zone-by-zone disconnection and large increases in electricity prices in certain areas? A cable is planned for England, but we also need to move forward in relation to the Netherlands, Sweden and the rest of Europe with concrete measures to get network capacity in place. I have to ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State do with Statnett? It's Statnet we have to give muscles and powers to be in front of these areas, so that we don't get into the most unfortunate situation that's described. We have said what framework conditions gas power stations should have in Norway. They must have the same framework conditions as others in Europe. And I want to go a little further on the framework conditions: does the Council of State think that the framework conditions for Norwegian power generation are what they should be? Do they provide the right incentives to further develop and streamline Norwegian power generation so that greater efforts are made by power producers to increase capacity and to expand and streamline installations? Are the Norwegian framework conditions in place to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1072	Let me first say that there's a lot of consensus in the Right Group, but you have a slightly different angle of incidence. I say this to the representative Brustad, since it is largely the same representatives who sit in the hall, to disappoint her or to please her that we agree. However, it is possible to have a slightly different degree of unrest or impatience at these points. However, the representative of Klungland points to an important challenge. As he points out, this is already a underbalance in power generation. This can in most cases be covered by imports from our neighbouring countries, but in a dry year that also affects our supplier countries, a significant undercover may occur. We do not disagree that this can lead to dramatic conditions. It is also clear that the development of renewable energy sources – wave power, wind power, bioenergy, tidal energy, etc. – cannot be expected to contribute in the short term. But I totally disagree with the representative Klungland when he's talking a little scornfully about being dependent on imports. I think it is very important and very good that there has also been a large cross-border exchange of products in this case, i.e. energy, precisely because in that way a country that has come undercover for a period of time can be remedied. So I am delighted to have a functioning market internationally for energy and for electricity. It is true, as the representative of Klungland says, that gas power has been discussed over several years as a possible alternative to achieving a better balance. It is, however – and here we are in the same discussion that we had in the previous interpellation, and we have had it many times in this big deal – that at the same time we have to make sure that we are able to live up to the commitments we have under the Kyoto agreement. Therefore, it is so important that we now concentrate on finding solutions to this with the CO2 emissions from the gas power plants. In the period we go into, I think upgrading existing hydropower plants is also very important. I am pleased that the Council of State clearly says that we need to have a simplified regulation here, we need to get a faster treatment, so that we can see where there is a lot of resources in old development, and that in that way – within not too long – we can add some TWh. We want sustainable development. We're not supposed to be passive. We're going to push what we can just to come up with good solutions, both to ensure our power balance and to get closer to the goals we've set ourselves under the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1087	It's strange that we have a debate on the power crisis since Norway is running over almost a third of Western Europe's hydropower production, half of its gas reserves and three-quarters of its oil reserves, and we have 1 pst. by the population. There is not a shortage of energy in Norway today, but a lack of political will and power to exploit our enormous energy resources here to land. There is a responsibility on the part of the current government and not least on the part of previous governments. The evening post yesterday had an article that showed that 80 p.m. the population is in favour of increased power deployment. There's something I think the other parties in this room have to take inwards, insofar as they're able to listen to the people. I think the article in Dagbladet on 19 February in a good and sober way illustrates the relationship between supply and demand in force in Norway. The article states that a substantial effort on anincrease has not been made and that consumption in Norway is increasing by about 1.5pst. annual. The Council of State confirmed this in a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee on Snow White, where he wrote that it appears that growth will continue despite significant efforts to convert energy use and energy production. This testifies to the fact that the costly effort on an increment measure has not worked and that the objective of the bulk of the population in the energy notification of the conversion of use and production has not been other than a costly airlock, as the Progress Party claimed and warned against during the process of the notification. In the spontaneous Question Time on 20 February, I raised the question about the absence of a payoff on an increase. The Council of State replied that with the work Enova is doing, the Government is betting on achieving the target of 7 TWh in renewable energy sources by 2010. According to the figures from EBL, today's deficit in a normal year is 7 TWh. With a growth in power consumption of 1.25 pst. The need for electricity over a period of 10 years will be about 140 TWh. Thus, the deficit will be 15 TWh after renewable sources are included. Then I wonder if an additional measure should be 15 TWh. I hope the Council of State can clarify that. In a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee, the Council of State states that any electrification of Snow White will increase the power balance deficit and increase the need for imports of, inter alia, coal-polluting power. I hope the Council of State can this time provide a reasonable explanation as to why power for the Snow White project is different from power for other domestic uses. I'm aware that Snow White needs the energy now, but we need power in the rest of the country as well, since we have a significant power loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1104	Norway has no power crisis. And the continued increase in energy consumption is incompatible with the objective of sustainable development. In a normal year, Norwegian power generation will be less than Norwegian electricity consumption, although research, for example, will be needed. at CICERO – the Centre for International Climate Research – indicates that NVE’s estimates of output in a normal year underestimate climate change can lead to more rainfall and thus greater electricity generation. In an international power market, it is not natural that each country has a balance between consumption and production. The aim is, of course, to make more efficient use of the total energy resources. In fact, it is largely the market that determines the price to consumers. However, Norway, which is a country rich in energy resources, should not rely on net imports of power in a normal year. In dry years, one will have to import electricity or reduce consumption. It is not economically viable to expand power supplies that can cover consumption even in dry years. The Norwegian power system has a normal variation in annual production of plus/minus 20 pst. Therefore, in order to be guaranteed against imports or reduced access in dry years, one must have a permanent average overcapacity of at least 20 pst. This is wasted on society's resources and increases the burden on the environment. We need to reduce energy use. Since the increase in production in Norway is neither environmentally nor economically attractive, the solutions lie in increasing energy savings and increasing energy efficiency. There are still many unused possibilities to streamline the use of the electricity we already have. The electricity charge is e.g. an important instrument to give a signal to consumers, but one can also point to market-oriented instruments such as: Enova can use. In addition, instruments that impose building standard requirements and energy efficiency requirements should, for example: white goods, put into service. These are just examples. There are opportunities almost everywhere in society to reduce energy use through better technology and increased efficiency in our energy use. Here the organisation and responsibilities are inadequate, and we need to strengthen that work. It is also a fact that more than one third of the energy consumption is used for heating purposes. This consumption can be largely replaced by flexible energy carriers with water-borne heat, either decentralised or in district heating systems. The use of bioenergy, heat pumps and waste heat are environmentally interesting alternatives that could reduce the need for electricity for heating, and thus also reduce the negative effects of dry-years in the power supply, as society becomes less dependent on electricity. There is no need to expand more power, neither gas power nor hydropower. Building so-called CO2-free gas power plants, even significant State subsidisation, is a particularly expensive way to meet the energy challenges. Measures by consumers and waterborne heat could generate the same amount of energy for a more reasonable amount of money, with an environmental benefit that would be much greater. It's extremely much more expensive per. kWh to deploy gas power rather than to switch off the hot water heater outside of consumers for a few hours a day. The arguments that are still used by the Party of Advances and the Workers' Party for increased imports of coal power are no longer valid. I would like these parties to actually address the serious question – and the challenge – of how to actually achieve sustainable development in these areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1130	The representative of Klungland had in the first article a strong focus on using natural gas to produce electricity and thus secure the power balance. I thought it was a rather special angle relative to the theme of the interpellation. Governments in their articles had a broader perspective on how the power balance can be secured in Norway at the time when it comes. He's pointing, among other things. that it is important to have both the necessary capacity in the domestic production structure, with many energy sources, and to have a good domestic line and transmission system and between Norway and the rest of the world. We know that in northern Sweden there is significant overcapacity of electricity relative to consumption in this area. The development and strengthening of the grid between Norway and Sweden will therefore be very important to ensure the balance of power also in the northernmost part of the country, which has been the subject of previous debates, most recently in connection with Snow White. In dialogue with several environmental and nature protection organisations, it has been pointed out that, among other things. an additional measure may reduce the need for electricity. I'm actually happy with the commitment and the recording from the environmental and nature protection organisations, and I look forward to Enova having a strong focus on an increment. Upgrading and modernisation of older hydropower plants may provide up to 5 TWh of clean and renewable energy. We need an open dialogue with environmental and nature protection organisations on the challenges in this area. The additional arrangements for heat pumps must be extended to cover several types and sizes of systems. In fact, it has to be profitable for individual buildings to also use heat pumps where it is possible to do so. We must continue to invest in wind power, and one must use the enormous energy contained in the ocean forces – or the sea forces – wave power, power, etc., and one must also build up the bioenergy further. As the Council of State mentions in its contribution, we must pursue an industrial and energy policy aimed at promoting both value creation and sustainable development with a focus on an increase. So when it comes to annual consumption in Norway, it has been an increase of approx. 17 TWh in the last decades. We've got several new homes, several kindergartens, schools, gymnasiums, swimming pool, elderly institutions and modern businesses where health, environment and security are at the centre, so we've invested properly both in public and in private. There are questions about what standard of living and what further development we are going to have. The challenge will be to provide more environmentally friendly and renewable energy at all costs. I trust that the Council of State and the Government will present a wide range of measures to ensure the balance of power through the development of the transmission network, anincreased measure and environmentally sound electricity generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1150	I'm not surprised at this kind of interpellation, but I have to say I was somewhat surprised at the angle of interpellant invasion. He tells in this room that we have to stop looking at environmental and energy policy so easily. But there's just a strong oversimplification here doing. There are no simple solutions to the relationship between energy policy and environmental policy. However, there may be many different solutions in the future. The efforts made by the central government in relation to renewable energy sources through the Energy Fund provide a good basis for part of what has to be done in the years to come. As far as I know, the Workers' Party adopted this. Gas power plants based on CO2-free technology are another pillar of future energy supply, the utilisation of power capacity in hydropower generation is a third, and the reduction of electricity consumption is a fourth. When the interpellant claims that we other people are simple, and that he has a complete scheme, some questions have to be asked. When the interpellant says we're going to be seaborne by force, does he think that the free power market in the Nordic region, for which the Workers' Party was a driver, should no longer be valid? Is there something that the Labour Party in the years ahead will oppose? Does the interpellant believe that power generation in Norway should be dimensioned after a single dry year, should it be dimensioned after the days of the year that are the coldest of all, or should we, when we have a freer market in the Nordic countries, think differently than then? We haven't imported force in recent years. And when the representative of Korsberg is constantly using the statistics on normalyears, it's going to be almost as if we want more than one year, just using the theoretical calculations on the potential of renewable energy sources. Then it becomes known as pretty big potentials you're talking about. Let's use the realistic potential. Let's say 3 TWh in the wind – over 2 TWh has already received a concession, as far as I understand. Let's say 5 TWh on the modernisation of the hydropower sector, and let's say 4 TWh on the waterborne heat. Yes, then we have covered up all the gas power plants Workerpartet so far have gone in for. So the question to the interpellant is, what is the reason why gas power plants were not started in the Workers' Party's government period? It wasn't a lack of will on the part of the government, was it? But was it not precisely because those who wanted to invest in the projects did not dare to take the risk it posed because of the precisely price in the power market? And is it not precisely so that an increase in price can trigger new generation capacity and thus also reduce the pressure on the power balance? I understand that the Working Party wants electrified base. After all, over the years, the working party has used different reasons for trying to get through gas power plants in Norway. First it was exports, then it was coal imports – and now it's obviously electrification. What will that take in the number of TWh? Has the Workers' Party figured that out? What will it take for shore-based gas power stations to be able to electrify Norwegian base? It is not today's prices that are the biggest problem in terms of industry – nor is it the EU's attack on industry's exemption from electricity taxes. I miss the Workers' Party's commitment to such a matter, which is important, and which must be resolved in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1169	It could be tempting to repeat much of what I said in my previous post – during the debate in place – about the need for a more forward-looking energy policy. The question being asked is, how are we going to get enough energy produced to cover an ever-increasing consumption? But this is not the important challenge. What we have to do is to adapt consumption to the limits nature sets and to which the Kyoto Protocol is an important step forward. That's what we have to focus on. Otherwise, I must say that in the context of the treatment of the Snow White Development, I was quite surprised that the Minister of Oil and Energy adopted the Stoltenberg Government's argument for gas power plants when this expansion was to be defended. I would therefore like to imagine that the Council of State clarified whether this is an argument he intends to pursue further ahead. In this case, I think he should also clarify how increased imports of electricity from abroad could lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions – given that the EU complies with its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol by reducing its emissions by 8 pst. relative to 1990 levels. It could have been interesting. Interpellant Klungland is concerned that people should have the most heat in their homes – no matter what the price. It's actually me too – heat that doesn't have to go the unnecessary path of electricity. I would like to encourage the interpellant to continue to focus on the need for heat in the houses – rather than to increase the electricity production in order to reduce prices. For SV, the lower price of electricity is not a target in itself. We want a fairer electricity price. That's why we were eager to get the Council of State to come up with new online pricing models, for which we were given a majority in the Statnet case. SV wants a two-price system for electricity, differentiated according to the consumption volume. So we're going to have the same price in terms of geography, but the difference in price in terms of the quantity of consumption. This we think can contribute to increased focus on energy saving. If we are to overcome the expected increase in greenhouse gas emissions, we need to think forward-looking about our energy consumption. Otherwise, we would like to have a theoretical debate on what lies within the concept of sustainable development – a development that meets today's needs without jeopardising the opportunities of future generations to meet their needs. If you want to go further with this debate, I would recommend that you take a look at page 42 of the Brundtland Commission's position, which specifies in particular that this must be a question where you focus on the problem of poverty, that it should be at the centre. In a global context, it follows that current energy policies and current energy consumption in Norway are not at all sustainable. The challenge is precisely to move energy policy in a sustainable direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1186	This is a debate we recognize. This has been addressed by the representative of Klungland in different contexts and on a number of occasions — with the same approach, the same issues, the same questions to the same Council of State and the same answers. The question is, when will the Storting deal with these questions in a slightly more thorough way than through interviews and questions in the Question Time? I know the government will come back to this, because you take it very seriously. But that means that the debate is now very predictable. What is striking is that the interpellant Klungland every time expresses that the sitting government is passive in relation to these challenges, while, as far as I have registered, he has not pointed to a single moment in addition to what the Government has initiated, which can help solve our power balance challenges. He's referring to gas power. The majority of the interpellant has opened up the construction of several gas power plants. But they haven't been built. This means that there are other reasons why we have not built these gas power plants – not only on the political will of the current government, but the economy of the market, the profitability of the projects. So the projects that the interpellant himself has been involved in pressing through in the Storting have not provided the results that he is now requesting from the sitting government, which he is accusing of being passive. There is a broad consensus that gas power plants can be built if the builders want to. There is also a broad consensus that the large hydropower deployment phase is over, but that there is a potential for improvement and modernisation. When this agreement is placed, what are we left with? We stand back with a lot, like, for example. SV has pointed to today: an offensive work onenhancement, development and use of alternative energy, modernisation, upgrading of existing hydropower plants. So we have a challenge in relation to a consumption crisis – and not necessarily in relation to a power crisis. It is this challenge that makes the distinction between this government, the central government and the labor party government visible, that is, some people think we can build ourselves out of a future crisis. That's why the central government took as active a grip as it did, to refocus on energy policy. The working party joined this. Interpellant Klungland, on behalf of its party, has helped to lay the foundations for the energy policy pursued today, including in relation to the challenges of the balance of forces. Then the sitting government has come up with a number of measures as well. It doesn't have the interpellant Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1199	It's interesting to discuss power and power supply. This debate has also shown that. What is perhaps most interesting is that the government parties actually require answers from the interpellant to questions that the interpellant has interpellanted to the council! And I was very surprised that the head of the Energy and Environment Committee in the National Assembly said he's tired of discussing electricity supply. But then he must have applied to another committee! He's had a lot of reason for that. So if he's tired of discussing electricity supply, he could have saved himself to use this pulpit to bring in such a drag park. Then I would like to say to the representative Arnstad that she had good rhetorical points, but she could not possibly have heard the post to the interpellant when he held it. For his interpellation, what the Council of State and the Government will do was to achieve a balance of power in this country. And I actually thought that the Center Party was one of the parties that was most interested in Norway actually being self-sufficient in this area. Unfortunately, they are clearly not. I asked the Council of State a question in relation to the network situation. It is true that there are common people who have to pay sky high prices because the network is not built so that it can take care of the heaviest and coldest days of the year. That is why I asked the Council of State if he would look at the possibility of deploying gas turbines to relieve the network. He didn't answer. So I've actually got a positive response to what goes on treating micro and minipower, that it's actually a very important measure for the Government as well. So little about sustainable development – it can be a debate in itself. In fact, I do not see that there is sustainable development when Norway has the ability to reduce CO2 emissions globally, but will not. I will take an example: Odda Melting Works were just laid down. They saved Norway 220,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. Now they might move to Germany, and so the emissions become 700 000 tonnes of CO2. It's not sustainable development, as I see it. In relation to CO2-free gas power plants, an additional measure, etc., I would like to state once again that there is no disagreement there. But we have to do something about the power balance in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1214	The force balance needs to be improved. When it is said that the Government's attitude has been passive, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the situation we have come up with today is a result of a policy that has been pursued over several years, by changing governments. The improvement of the power balance is also a long-term project. I can confirm that I will address this, because it is very important that we bring the situation under control. It is not a crisis situation, but we should prevent a situation there, for example. repeated dry years will create very difficult conditions and lead to exceptional measures and prices that we do not like to think about. The framework conditions for the power producers were occupied by the representative Nordtun. I just want to point out that power plant taxes have been for treatment in Stortinget. Of course, a key prerequisite for new expansion is that power producers retain some of the revenue they want. But, of course, as the Storting knows, there has been a distribution between the state fund, the power municipalities and the companies. That balance gave the Storting itself the opportunity to take a stand a short time ago. The representative of Klungland said in his first post – I forgot to comment on it – that the council said no to building gas power plants, and asked how this is related to the desire to improve the power balance. I'm clearly saying no to that, but it's of course because the question is on the wrong premises. We say yes to gas power plants, correct with CO2 handling. We have even agreed to clear three gas power plants using conventional methods, without this having led to the builders having been able to do this. When it comes to Snow White – I don't think I'm going to spend so much time on it – I just want to say once again that Snow White was to be realized within a short time horizon. When Vaggen Malvik asks if we will continue to argue the same way, I would say that I don't want to, because in the case of Snow White, we had a time margin that we had to keep, and the option of electrification of Snow White was not a good environmental option, either in the case of power lines or in the case of imports. I can confirm that Marit Arnstad was in the hall when Rolf Terje Klungland made his contribution, and I think that Marit Arnstad had many good points. Norway is part of a larger energy market. We can improve the capacity that we should have in the network. Gas turbines are not the answer to this. But expanding cables, both towards the Nordic and European power markets, can be one of many important measures to improve the situation we have on the power market today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1227	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1245	The report I refer to in my interview shows several trends. It shows that we now have a strong transition from competitively-designed industry to screened industries and service industries. It shows that we have a de-scaling of jobs in the districts, and that a very large part of the start-ups come in the central Oslo area. This trend has led, and leads to, a very strong growth in the central east region, while there is a correspondingly strong decline in less central strata in the Austland. Although the report I refer to has only taken place in Austria, we know that this trend is taking place, perhaps even more strongly, at national level. We are still reading about the negative consequences of this centralization trend. In the press areas we experience shortages of housing and very expensive building costs for people most. There is a great deal of pressure on roads and other infrastructure. It is such that much of the public service supply is experiencing press problems. Very many of those moving to the press areas are young people in the establishment phase, often with young children. This means that they are willing to increase the costs for the municipality with demands for nursery places and with demands for shelter, while, because of their situation of establishment, they have little impact on the tax haven. In other words, it's expensive inhabitants. In central parts of the country, we also have a high demand that leads to price pressure. We have a shortage of labour, which leads to compensation of employees, which in turn exacerbates the competitive situation of industry. On the edge stroke, we also have a lot of problems, but of a very different character. We have a lack of start-up. This, combined with rationalisation in traditional industries, the traditional industry, leads to job losses in District Norway, which in turn has led to relocation and evaporation. Many municipalities have problems with maintaining service provision because the population is getting low — this is particularly true for the provision of services to children and young people. A sheep reduced services, a given reduced cultural life, and even though I understand it is dangerous to say it, in parts of the country it becomes a certain pessimism, which, in turn, is part of and reinforces the negative trend. One has difficulty recruiting professionals, both in the public industry and in private settings, which in turn increases the cost of recruiting these people, both for the districts and not least for the business community located in such municipalities. Centralization has never been stronger than it is now. Unfortunately, this problem is often misrepresented as if it were a one-sided district problem. This is an equal problem for the press areas and our cities. There is therefore no contradiction between having an active district policy and having an active urban policy, rather I would say that these are two sides of the same coin. The situation today is very serious. Centralization has never been stronger than it is now. But unfortunately, fortune - tellers suggest that it may get worse. I will show you here, among other things. to the President of the Central Bank this year, where he traces a dramatic fall in the number of industrial workplaces in the future. We know that very many of these jobs are located in District Norway, often in one-sided industrial sites. One must certainly be very optimistic if one believes that there will be a particular increase in employment in agriculture or agricultural industries – rather on the contrary, everything suggests that one will have a certain decrease in the number of jobs. Perhaps the fishing industry can be an exception, where we can get new growth by exploiting new species and that kind of thing. But here, too, there's a problem area, not least connected to the market. We know that we have problems with the population when it comes to individual fisheries, which means that today we have an overcapacity in the fishing fleet. If we were to adapt, this could be a problem. All of this will be part of and reinforce the trend. In no way shall I owe the Minister of Industry or the Sitting Government for this situation. There is a trend that has passed over several years. There are no simple solutions, there is no sesame-sam that can be implemented to get a nightly turn. Nevertheless, the first assumption to be able to do something about such a problem is that one perceives it as a problem. Now I am not going to tear up or repeat the budget debate, but it is such that there were major changes in the budget that were agreed in the fall, when it comes to rural policy in Norway. I feel pretty sure that the changes that were made will join and reinforce the trend further. A drastic cut in SND's tools and in the municipal food funds will make it harder and not easier to get established in Utang-Noreg. SND cut makes it harder with the necessary advice Cut in SND's administration makes it harder for businesses in an establishment phase to get the necessary advice and guidance. It is also such that in the field of nutrition research a good deal was done in relation to nutrients that one knows has a great potential in District Norway. Now I know that the government's representatives have learned a lesson on reduced fare and other tax cuts, which should be a kind of mantra for new nutritional growth. Personally, I find it very difficult to believe that it is the fare that has led to a strong centralisation in the Austland area, and although reduced air fares are of course good for business, I do not believe in any way that that is enough. It is also a fact that the tax havens for which the government got multiples in the fall are mainly going to be in the press areas. More than 50 pst. the tax haven is located in the central east region. The remainder of the tax is mainly in Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. Of course, some of these funds will be channelled back to District Norway – we hope so. However, in my view, there is a greater reason to believe that these money will be placed on the market in the central east region and thus contribute to the strengthening of pressure. I would like to put forward this debate first and foremost to see if it is a common view that this is actually a problem for Norway. That is why I ask the Minister of Industry if he sees this development as a problem. If he does, I would very much like to have a statement about what is the Government's program to help dampen and hopefully also reverse this trend.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1279	The representative Akselsen addresses important challenges in his interpellation. The government sees it as an important input to stimulate value creation and industrial development across the country. In order to maintain and further develop viable and prosperous regions and communities, we depend on the development of high-value industries. This requires both business conversion and sufficient start-ups. The objective of industrial policy is to facilitate the creation of value added. The values created in business are the basis for well-being, employment and housing. Good working conditions for enterprises are therefore absolutely necessary. The co-operation administration will provide better opportunities for businesses and people with ongoing and creative skills. It's going to be easier to start and run your own business. Developing a high-growth business that can reduce dependence on oil and gas activities is a particular challenge. It is the growth capacity of the mainland economy that will determine the long-term welfare development in Norway. The government will therefore place the decisive emphasis on long-term economic policy. We will improve and provide a stable framework for industrial activities. All parts of economic policy must work together to ensure the objectives of high, stable and sustainable economic growth. It can hardly be said to be a problem in itself that some regions in the country have more start-ups than others. This is due, inter alia, to: differences in the structure of economic activity. For example, the service industries are: larger in the Oslo area and in the other larger cities than they are in the districts. Number of start-ups relative to the holding’s population, i.e. The rate of re-establishment is higher in many service industries than in industry and primary industries. A higher level of education among the population of the Oslo area than the national average also appears to be a contributing cause of the differences. In my view, it is also stimulating and healthy with a certain level of competition between regions in order to contribute to a good framework for value creation. Therefore, it is not appropriate to prevent positive development in some regions. The main objective must be to stimulate good framework conditions for value creation across the country. The global economy and technological development lead to a change in the premise for industrial activity. The economy operates more in global competition. Key growth industries in rural areas are global, such as: the aquaculture industry. The value creation in the country depends on enterprises and investors realizing profitable investment projects with Norway as a location. Then we have to bet on more fronts. We need to establish framework conditions that facilitate Norwegian value creation in a broad sense. Reference testing is one method to compare framework conditions between countries, to learn and to improve. The Government aims to use reference testing to identify problem areas in the business environment as an important basis for future business policy decisions and priorities. One of the Government’s public sector objectives is that industry should experience the administration as a clean, unbureaucratic and Norwegian public service as a competitive advantage. This is particularly important for start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises that use a relatively larger share of their resources to follow laws and regulations than larger enterprises. A well-functioning and efficient public sector is an important contribution to stimulating business development in districts. An efficient business requires competition. The Government will implement a competition policy action programme, the main elements of which are strengthening the position of Competition Surveillance Authority, reviewing laws, regulations and public regulations in order to eliminate provisions that may act as a barrier to competition and the exercise of the State’s purchasing role in a way that promotes competition. A competitive policy that is predictable and orderly also offers increased opportunities for business in the districts. A broad and general low-rate tax system is generally better for value creation than a system of narrower tax bases and higher rates. In the Sem Declaration, the cooperative government has announced a reduction in taxes and taxes that hamper innovation and weaken the competitiveness of businesses. The temporary double tax on dividends has been abolished, the fee on air seats removed and the investment tax has been removed from the harvest. The government has ambitions for further tax reductions to improve the framework conditions for value creation in Norway. The government has announced a reform of the taxes on income and wealth. A selection of experts shall assess these parts of the tax and tax system and shall deliver its recommendation by the end of 2002. A functional and efficient infrastructure is of great importance for value creation. For example, an efficient transport sector is essential for the functioning of the economy. Norwegian business and, in particular, district business are more distant from European markets than many of their competitors. The government will pursue a policy that ensures good transport solutions across the country and abroad. We want to strengthen transport efforts and increase road appropriations. In recent years, both national and international attention has been increasingly focused on the importance of entrepreneurship — the establishment and development of new activities — for innovation and growth in the economy. Entrepreneurship is an important source of job creation, while entrepreneurship can involve a high level of independence and personal development for individuals. Incentives to entrepreneurship have been shown to contribute positively to increased participation of women and immigrants in business. Entrepreneurship and innovation will target the whole population in several areas. This includes, inter alia: particular attention should be paid to entrepreneurship in education. The government wants more attention to be paid to entrepreneurship and innovation and is currently considering developing a comprehensive Norwegian entrepreneurship and innovation policy. It goes without saying that such a policy must be based on broad cooperation between several departments. As regards the development of high-growth regions, we assume that enterprises are developing in an interaction between the enterprise itself, suppliers, customers, educational and research institutions and the public sector in general. In well-functioning regional value creation environments, labour, capital, information and ideas tend to flow more easily between actors. Much of the innovation power lies in the interaction between people, and it can have a good effect if the physical distances are so short that people can easily meet and close professional cooperation between different business actors can flourish. In all parts of the country, there are high-growth regions with strong skills and business environments. By cultivating the characteristics and developing what is already good, many regions in Norway will have good prospects for the future. Development of high-growth regions and regional value-creating environments in all parts of the country will also contribute to a good balance in growth in the various parts of the country. At the same time, this can make an important contribution to a positive national economic development. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs will give a comprehensive overview of the government's regional and regional policies. The government wants to formulate new objectives and strategies for the economic instruments. This also applies to funds with a clear device against the districts. That is why we have launched a full review of the instrument. The aim of this review will include, inter alia: to clarify the balance and the interaction between general framework conditions and direct instruments. We will look at where the public should play a role and what the market can solve on its own. In extending this, we need to put the issue of the organisation of the instrument on the agenda. The review will form the basis for a debate that the Government will appropriately address with the Stortinget. In the Sem statement, the government says that we want to sharpen the direct instruments against, among other things. research and empowerment, as well as the Idea, Development and Commercialisation phase. Furthermore, in the light of increasingly open international markets, it is important for business to be offered an effective and competitive tool for trade promotion and internationalisation. Both the objectives of drug use, strategies, scope of instruments and the organisation of the instrument are the themes of the review. I look forward to coming back to the Storting for a wide-ranging debate in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1317	It is a very important issue to address in this interview. Although I see that the Workers' Party may not disagree very much with the government parties, there are some things that we still disagree with. One act that we believe was wrong was in relation to the FUNN scheme. As long as it existed, it turned out that 30 pst. Of these funds went to Oslo and Akershus. 70 pst. So we went to other parts of the country. It was a good arrangement for business, and it was easy in the sense that the procedure would take three weeks, and it was possible to send an application electronically. I realize that this is history, because a majority in the hall said they wouldn't have the order. But I think it's important that we have schemes that can help dampen up some of the centralization we see in the growth of Norwegian industry. The report from Telemarksforsking also shows that Oslo and Akershus clearly have more business start-ups than the rest of the East. As the interpellant said, I also think that is the situation in other parts of the country. It is important to start-up, not only in the public sector, but also in the ordinary industry. According to the report, it says: ‘Most start-ups are small, so start-ups do not mean much to the short-term development of business in terms of employment. In the long term, new start-ups are more important, as new start-ups bring ‘new blood’ to local businesses in the form of new people, new products and new business practices. Young enterprises are also growing faster than old enterprises, so that a large population of young enterprises is more likely to grow in an area.’ It is with the background that new jobs are so important. Some time ago, as a judge, I took part in a competition called ‘Young Founders’, in high school in Namsos. It was an enthusiastic youth mass that would like to be the creamers and create their own businesses. In that way, it gives hope. Research in Sweden also shows that 20 pst. by those who establish themselves, have actually been involved in the type of processes that ‘young entrepreneurs’ are. I belong to the Minister of Economic Affairs, who is entrepreneurship, and I agree that this is important. But political signaling that a desire for greater activity in the districts, and that it is not immaterial where one establishes, is my wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1337	I agree with the inter-pellant's concern about the development of industry in Norway. It is important that the Storting should take a closer look at the signals coming from different teams on the development of industry at an appropriate time. But in the interpellation, the representative Akselsen presents it as if it is a problem that many new businesses are set up in Oslo and Akershus, and he even wants the Minister of Industry to reverse this positive trend. I'm not going to start with a seat charge and stuff like that. I would also like to say that there is no particular connection between little innovation in the districts and high innovation in the central districts. It is not that if a company is started in Oslo, it cannot be started in Rennebu or at Ringebu. However, in general, little innovation in Norway is a problem. I think that's more important. We need to stimulate more entrepreneurs in this country. It is that some of the newly established enterprises have poor capital base, and therefore many of them also go bankrupt. It is important that we have a system that makes it possible to raise capital, but there must be capital for profitable businesses or profitable projects. I am therefore pleased that the government has focused on removing obstacles and heavy-duty processes that many entrepreneurs are facing. In addition, tax reliefs that could be introduced will probably improve the framework conditions. I have to say in parentheses that it's not so very strange that it's the companies that pay taxes, which also get a relief if the tax rate goes down. I think that in many ways belongs together, so I'm not very frustrated about it. We need to ensure that the instrument we have frees resources and uses resources in the best possible way, so that it really benefits the start-ups and businesses. The administration of such instruments may be tightened and may improve. I think the grip you're now taking could lead to better situations. However, there are some points of light in this respect with regard to establishment. Private organisations and businesses have established something called Venture Cap, where they help businesses or start-ups to make business plans — which are often a lack of product — and premium it. Connect Norway has also been established to try to connect entrepreneurs with marketers, with financial people and with researchers, so as to be able to improve their establishment. This is going to be free for all the founders who come in, and I think in many ways it's a better way than controlling everything through the state. If we are to achieve something in this country, we must have a positive attitude towards establishment and a positive attitude towards activity. We must also create optimism. I regret to say that the Workers' Party has not been at the forefront of creating that optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1352	Decisive governments have for many years pursued a costly district policy, where a wide range of generous instruments have been made available in an effort to ensure housing and nutrition development. There is no doubt that this bet has failed, because the removal has been significant. All studies show that centralisation will continue at a significant pace over the next 10 to 15 years. Soon almost half of Norway’s population will live in the eastern region. That is an indisputable fact. A costly and faulty agricultural policy must bear much of the blame for this. Some economists and researchers estimate the total subsidies to Norwegian agriculture over the past 25 years at DKK 1 000 billion. If one is to be willing, one might say that agricultural policy is a very expensive way to slow down the trend of centralisation. However, I would argue that it is actually impoverishing the districts, making them less able to develop a sustainable business life, and thus helping to reinforce the centralisation trends. There are many competitive businesses in the districts. Much of this activity is fighting hard to survive in international competition, and it will be worse. In this fight, in addition to bearing own costs and distance constraints, rural businesses must bear their share of Europe's most expensive agricultural policy. It'll be like competing in the Birkebeiner with 35 kg in the bag instead of 3.5 kg. Is it any wonder that people and businesses are fleeing? It occurs preferably to cities and major agglomerations farther south of the country. This should be remembered by the political majority for the next time they try to turn each other into district-friendly symbolism policies. The Progress Party believes that there should be a clear distinction between agricultural policy and rural policy and that agriculture should be deregulated. As the Council of State stated, entrepreneurship must also win in agriculture. There is much that can be done to strengthen the foundations of Building Norway, among others. by reducing the distance constraints. In other words, we have to lower the high costs of transporting goods and people. Special car and fuel charges are a handicap for value-creating businesses and district dwellers. The extent to which districts will succeed in the future depends very much on the attractiveness of Building Norway, both as a location option for business and as a housing option. This will include, among other things: tax policy, transport policy and travel policy are crucial. If the political majority still chooses to ignore this, I am afraid that Telemarks research is getting even more accurate than what the report says.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1363	There is no doubt that the voters have given the Stortinget a mandate for a strengthened district profile in industrial policy. SV, the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party – I was about to say in order of priority – together form a majority for strengthening district policy. But in the government, the Christian People's Party's district policy has become a silent scream. The government's profile, including this one, is dominated by the right. This comes back in an interview from the representative of Inge Ryan, who will be on April 9th this year. But I'll get to point out a couple of things that I think it's appropriate for the Minister of Industry to comment. The Minister of Economic Affairs is constantly returning to the fact that lower taxes and general tax credit schemes for research are the miracle medicine for sound business and district development. However, international studies show that countries with lower taxes have no faster economic growth than those with higher taxes. One example is the mixed economies in the Nordic countries, where Norway, Sweden and Denmark have had stable economic growth even with a relatively strong state. The United States under Reagan and England under Thatcher were both periods when the state's role was to be cut down to a minimum. But both examples have become textbook examples of how it should not be done. Economic growth was not faster than it was in the North, rather on the contrary, and the only thing that was achieved was greater inequalities between poor and rich. And what kind of values do you create? I don't think it's so strange that a government made up of, among other things. a strong value-conservative party, conducts such a policy, but that the Party of Government, the Christian People's Party, is involved in such offensive right-wing policy, it is a surprise and to us a disappointment. Recent economic studies show that it is not taxation and research alone that drive economic growth in the districts. An increasing number of studies point to innovation, technological capacity, committed employees and managers, knowledge development and a broad culture of innovation as important factors for the performance of enterprises, and also the performance of regions and countries. Research is an important element of this, the competence of employees is different, and productive and healthy corporate cultures are a third. Innovation and innovation are more than just research. Therefore, I can imagine that the Minister of Industry comments on the following: How does the Government see that tax deductions for research investments can help reverse the trend pointed out by the interpellant in its interpellant, when research-intensive enterprises are largely located in cities? And if the Council of State agrees that innovation and innovation activities are more than research and lower taxes, what action will the Government take to have a broader approach to innovation and industrial development than what is happening today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1379	We continue to experience that speakers are trying to present it as if the Christian People's Party and the Cooperation Government are not concerned with district policy, now last at the representative of Åsa Elvik. I'll refute that. When it comes to the inter-pellant Aksensens theme, I fully agree with the description of the challenges of centralisation – it is a major challenge for both the districts and the central strata. It is clear that we need to focus on facilitating value creation and re-establishment in the districts. The accent went forward on the cut that was on the SND in connection with the budget. I can't believe it: when the Labour Party put in government, the big cuts on the SND proposed last year in the revised national budget. The Christian People's Party was involved in increasing the budget in Stortinget. It is produced as that because one has cut on the SND, it is a down-priority of district policy. One must at the same time look at the total budget. If I'm going to draw up an example as the removal of dividend tax, studies show that about 70 pst. the dividends paid by enterprises are reinvested in business. And if one assumes that number, the removal of the dividend tax thus gives capital access to the companies over NOK 1 billion. I've visited a lot of companies, and I've had a lot of pepper compared to cutting on the SND. I might agree that any of it can be with and with. But I also belong to companies that say that general, good and stable framework conditions are important for the districts, for the furtherance of businesses in the districts and also for innovation. One must not look blindly at only the selective measures. I'm not saying we should have either – or. I believe that some selective measures may actually be necessary. But now that we have a review of the instrument, we're going to be able to go into this thoroughly. Yesterday, the Business Committee came up with an opinion on a Document No. Eight proposals from the representative, Inge Ryan, for the creation of a new Enterprise Development Fund. In that setting, the Labour Party says that they believe that one has the right means, but that the budgets must be increased and that that is the problem – and they refer to the cuts that have been in the budget. Yes, there are some cuts, but one must also look at all other areas that have been increased. If this is the case that the Labour Party is concerned about the evolution and situation of today, and at the same time says that one is satisfied with the tool that one has, I think the Labour Party should do it on its own. I do not say that everything that the Christian People's Party has done is the best fasitancy solution in relation to the challenge of centralization and decentralization, but I say that getting a review will be positive. [[The President clubs.]] I am also pleased that the Minister of Local Affairs should have a statement on regional district policy. It is absolutely a theme that engages the Cooperation Government and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1390	The President reminds us that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1393	I agree with the concern of the inter-pellant, who insists that such a large number of start-ups are being carried out in Oslo in relation to other parts of the country. It is said from some speakers here today that you should not look negatively at start-ups. It is clear that one should not do, regardless of whether they come in Oslo. So it is said that there is no competitive relationship between new start-ups in Oslo and elsewhere in the country. That's when I have to ask myself sail: is one so sure that there's no contradiction here? There are no errors with new start-ups themselves, but the question is whether the new start-ups that are currently taking place in the Oslo area are at the expense of new start-ups that could have been carried out elsewhere in the country. Then we're seagoing about the question of whether what district policy is an unfortunate picture we have in front of us. Therefore, it is also important to look at possible reasons why new developments take place in Oslo rather than for example. in Trøndelag. I understand that the Christian People's Party is tired of hearing about the reductions that were in the budget in the autumn. But there has to be reason to wonder if it can mean something for someone who wants to do business, that one now has a petrol price some places in the districts that can be 50 cent higher for the liter than that found in Oslo. And there must be reason to ask yourself one of the reasons why there will be fewer start-ups is that one with a pen stroke removed the system of municipal nutrition funds, which in 2000 contributed to the creation of 970 new businesses and thus jobs in the districts. One also has to ask himself about removing the dividend tax, which contributed to 400 million. Extras for people in Oslo and $15 million. extra crowns to people in the North Trøndelag, are also involved and contribute to the question of where new start-ups are actually taking place in this country. In total, the four most northerly counties were cut at about a quarter. 400 million. in rural and industrial policy measures in the autumn budget. And overall, people in Oslo got a relief in the dividend tax on the corresponding amount, approx. 400 million. kr. It can be said to be a redistribution that can also affect the degree of re-establishment. I fully agree with what is being said that the lack of risk capital in the districts is very important. It is an important problem for any new establishment in the districts. And it's an ominous picture that is now drawn in relation to the possibilities of private financial institutions and wants to contribute to the access to capital in the districts, but also the image that we see from the SND side. I am concerned about the signals coming from the Government that a person wants to distort some of the food policy instruments from selective measures, for example. risk capital access through SND, to general tax reliefs. It will not facilitate the acquisition of risk capital in districts. So some may object that yes, then Harald Brøvik and Terje Mikaelsen get more money that they can invest in the districts, but in relation to that, there won't be much local ownership left in the districts. Otherwise, I agree with what has been said here about both the active owners and the importance of the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1408	I would like to thank the Council of State and the other participants in the debate. I couldn't quite get along with myself if that was how the minister perceived this as a very big problem, at least I didn't have the impression that he had plans to make this one of his flagships. That's what I'm sorry for. A good deal of bets were outlined from the Government, but as far as I could see, none of them were specifically entitled to contribute to making things easier with establishments in the district of Norway. I believe that the representative of Onarheim has either deliberately or unconsciously misunderstood; at least he has misunderstood. It's not like I want to make it harder to get established in Oslo or Akershus. But I still want to say that it would have been an advantage for the whole country, including the Austland press areas, if more of these start-ups had come in other parts of Norway. And when I know of Onarheim's background, I'm a little surprised that he's no longer concerned that these new start-ups in Oslo come into the screen sector, in the service industry, and therefore, through the pressure you see, to make it harder for the competitive industry. It's a fact that everyone should be occupied with. So I realize that sometimes it can be difficult to be part of the Christian People's Party, that's what I'm labeling on the slightly hurt tone from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad. Of course, attack is the best defense. I totally agree that we should bet on general stable and good framework conditions, and that is what I think the party I represent has stood for all the years. That's what we want to keep going. It is then the most important provision that one has an economic policy that provides a basis for establishment. And that's why I'm also a little surprised by Onarheim when he says that the Labour Party doesn't have a say in positiveism, because it's so that in the 1990s we've had a huge growth in the number of new jobs in Norway. Most have come in a period when the Labour Party has its seat with government responsibility. I'm glad, of course, that part of the money that is now coming as a result of the removal of the dividend tax is being reinvested. But the problem is that they are not reinvested in the same areas as the SND funds would have been used. My interpellation was not meant as an attack on the Government, but as a possibility for all of us to focus on an area that at least I perceive as an important area. Then I understand that we do not get any particular answer today, but there is still some hope in what the council says. He simply says that one should come back to the Storting both in one way and the other, and then we hope that he will use this opportunity to also think about what to do to bring about a more positive development in less central parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1424	The accent made it clear that there was no attack on the government, and I have not seen it this way either. I think it's a pretty broad recognition in this room that it's important that we ensure nutrition development across the country, because there's a broad understanding in this room that we're going to have to live throughout the country, and to have a living throughout the country, it demands that there are jobs. I understood that the representative Aksens felt that there was some kind of wound in the Christian People's Party, and he could understand that it was difficult to be in the Christian People's Party at the moment, he said. Well, now I'm in a party that's also had a hard time, and when I saw the papers this morning, it struck me that it can't be simply in the Workers' Party either by day, and I have all sorts of compassion in that way. With regard to jobs in districts, it is undeniable that, to the extent that it should be as bad as the governor suggested, namely that there should be 60 000 fewer jobs in 10 years, districts will be particularly affected. Competition-free Norwegian industry has much of its primary production in the districts. That means that if we don't take the considerations that the governor pointed out for what might affect the competitive situation of Norwegian businesses, those of us who would have to be here in ten years' time will have to look back: now there are 60,000 fewer jobs, and we didn't do what the governor suggested to do to counteract such a development. Then there is no more or less 30 cents for the petrol in the districts that are decisive, and then there is no more or less 500,000 kroner in filling from municipal nutrition funds that are decisive. I agree that part of the instruments, SND etc., are important in district policy, but it has also become a two-way street in relation to the reality of what is most important. The most important thing for competitive business will always be that the general framework conditions are competitive in relation to the countries against which competition runs. And then, in my opinion, it's not enough to look at the one-sided things that have to do with the tools. There I come back with a matter, and I hope it will satisfy the Storting. The representative Elvik raised a very timely case in relation to this with innovation, innovation, empowerment, business culture and all that is involved. Then I'll repeat finally two sentences from my post, where I said: ‘The government wants more attention to be paid to entrepreneurship and innovation and is currently considering developing a comprehensive Norwegian entrepreneurship and innovation policy. It goes without saying that such a policy must be based on broad cooperation between several ministries.’ Not least what goes on at the Ministry of Education and Research will be crucial when it comes to implementing an industrial policy for the enterprises we're going to live on when the oil age goes to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1440	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-15.ana.ud1480e1451	There is no record.
