ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e29	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Sverre L. Mo is dead. Born on January 25, 1915, he was 87 years old. Sverre L. Mo had his work in the transport industry and in the car industry. He was a founder and a businessman. As a 19-year-old, he was already the owner of the Hardanger–Bergen freight route. In 1946 he established the car repair shop Mo Auto, and in 1968 another in Women's Heath. He started his political career in 1947 when he was elected to the local government of Kvam in Hordaland as a representative of the Christian People's Party. Except for one period, he served in the local government from 1947 until 1973. In addition, he was a member of the Presidency, first in the period 1951 to 1954 and then from 1959 to 1973. Even after he was elected as a major representative in 1965, he maintained contact with local policy at home as a municipal board member and chairman. Sverre L. Mo met at Stortinget for the first time in 1962, as a substitute for Torstein Kvamme. But he had been an alternate since 1954. At the election in 1965 he was elected as permanent representative of the Christian People's Party from Hordaland, and he met at the Stortinget until 1981. He was a member of the Odel Sting throughout his time as a representative. In the first period he was a member of the Justice Committee, but from 1969 and the rest of his time at Stortinget he was a member of the Committee on Transport. Given his professional background, this was a committee position according to his heart. For his constituents in Hordaland, he was also known as the road builder, the bridge builder and the tunnel builder in front of some. By the way, he was a bridge builder in more than one way. He was a master at creating alliances in committees and corridors when there was something he was burning for. In addition to his local political duties, Sverre L. Mo was also in other ways an active man in the community. He had a wide range of board and trust in public and private matters, in the work of the Interior Commission and in the Council of Ministers. He also had a position and leadership position in his own party, both locally and at county level; among other things. he took on a last period as head of the county after he resigned as a magnificence representative in 1981. Sverre L. Mo was very conscious of the ideological basis of the policy of the party he chose to serve. He strongly engaged in debates related to school, church and culture. With Sverre L. Mo, a colorful political veteran has passed away. We remember Sverre L. Mo with deep respect and gratitude and shining peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e50	From the meeting of the alternate of the county of Troms, Knut Werner Hansen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Synnøve Konglevoll from 4 November to 6 November in order to participate as a member of the Norwegian delegation to the 31st session of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission in Kabelvåg. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates, Arne Bergland, are prevented from meeting because of foreign residence. Third alternate, Synnøve Søndergaard, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e70	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I propose that private and official laboratories be allowed to check whether alcoholic beverages contain methanol.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e75	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e88	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e97	This is the setting for St.prp. No 80 for 2001-2002 mainly concerns the financing of Norwegian operations in Afghanistan, as far as we know, for the rest of 2002 and 2003. At the same time, the proposition provides a review of the Norwegian involvement in the operations in which we have participated or participated, both through Enduring Freedom, the ISAF International Security Force, Eagle Assist and Active Endeavour. Today's debate in the United Kingdom is taking place on a dark background of the hostage drama that is going on in Moscow. Once again, there are groups that, from different points of view and different perceptions of reality, are attacking innocent civilians. We don't know the outcome of the drama in Moscow, and we can only hope the best. Nevertheless, we must state that there are no excuses for serious attacks on innocent people, no matter what motives you may have to rely on. Terrorism again shows its ghastly face, this time in Moscow. Norway’s contribution to the fight against international crime is high and demanding. I am very pleased that an almost unanimous committee is in favour of supporting and financing the Norwegian missions both in terms of ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF. Norway has now deployed six F-16 fighter planes in a fighter aircraft group of 18 planes in Manas, Kyrgyzstan. These tasks are carried out in cooperation with Denmark and the Netherlands. Aeroplanes are outsourced at the request of the United States and approved by Stortinget with a background in St.prp. No 39 for 2001-2002, cf. Inner. S. No 19 for 2001–2002. The main task of the aeroplanes will be to support ground personnel and combat conflicting Al Qaida and Taliban groupings as well as military installations. Operations in Afghanistan have so far been very successful, but the security situation is still far from satisfactory in the country. The continued presence of terrorists, albeit in smaller groups, poses a high risk to the security forces and to humanitarian efforts to prevent the country from being in need and rebuilding. The Allied Air Force is a vital security guarantee for the work of ISAF. Norway has participated in ISAF with explosives cleaners and transport units, as well as participation in the Allied teams, first in London and later in Ankara. The United Kingdom and Turkey have requested that these contributions be extended from 1 July to 31 December of this year. There is reason to give Turkey great recognition for taking on the demanding task of leading the intervention force. As I said earlier, air support is a decisive factor in the safety work on land. This is highlighted in a speech by President Karzai in an interview with the Evening Post on Wednesday. It is absolutely impossible to understand how SV can defend its alleged humanitarian commitment, but is reverting to military security, which constitutes the very precondition for humanitarian action. If the word «double moral» is ever to have any meaning, it must be in this context, and I am glad that the party is standing all by itself in this demonstration. It is worth noting that the Central Party of the Defence Committee is part of the broad majority and cannot be tempted to embrace the SV's special security policy reasoning. For the sake of order, let me also stress – a little in the light of today’s headlines – that the Norwegian planes in Afghanistan are obviously not equipped with class bombs. Otherwise, I can also inform you that it has not been necessary to use the bombs with which the aeroplanes are equipped. So that's the safety that the planes themselves provide, which has been the very basis for the work that we're going to do now. As far as the suspension is concerned, the Committee is pleased that the Nordic Transport Coordination Centre established at the Gardermoen in cooperation with Finland and Sweden is being continued and that Norway is the head of the Centre. We also note that the contribution to ‘Eagle Assist’ was completed on 15 May this year and Norway’s participation with a frigate and a submarine in operation ‘Active Endevour’ was completed in July, but Norway will be able to request further participation. I am pleased that the Stortinget with this position is closely joining the Government's proposal to finance Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan. In the event of new requests for Norwegian participation beyond what we are now aware of, the Committee has stated that we would like to focus on the most appropriate tasks for which Norway is best suited. This concerns the work of ISAF. This also applies to the mine clearance qualifications and the mine clearance capacity held by Norway. With this I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e125	With today's media lookup as a background, I think it's right to start by asking the Council of State, when she's going to have the word, to make it clear that there are no class bombs on the F-16 planes deployed to Kyrgyzstan, flying forts over Afghanistan. In addition, the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation is most astonishing also the strength of the operation: a 70-nation coalition extending from Pakistan via Russia to a number of third-world countries. Of these, 39 are represented in the Central Command in Tampa, and 13 nations, including Norway, participate in Afghanistan under American command. «Enduring Freedom» and Norwegian participation are international law based on both the Security Council resolution and NATO decision of 12 September last year to implement Article 5 on mutual solidarity within the Alliance. Norwegian participation in the operation was dealt with in Stortinget on 5 December last year and in kgl. Res. of 14 December, provision was made for both the financing of the deployment of the fighter aircraft and the ground crew under the command of Kyrgyzstan, which is otherwise subject to Norwegian rules, framework conditions and guidelines. Norway has provided ISAF with crews and forces and, in addition, provides significant humanitarian assistance, including: as Head of the Afghanistan Support Group. In the past few hours and days, we have received a strong reminder that terror only affects innocents. Terrorism as a threat must be faced with several instruments: political, economic, diplomatic and military. We probably have a long way to go. Can I add that no decision should be more difficult than to send men and women into battle. When, after a thorough assessment and with legitimacy in NATO and the UN, Norwegian politicians have sent Norwegian teams and Norwegian equipment to participate in ‘Enduring Freedom’, it is in recognition that we also had to use military means of power. Then we must also stand upright and support the troops deployed on the basis of precisely political decisions. They need to know that they have our support when we've decided they're leaving. The fight against terrorism is an integral part of Norwegian defence policy. It is the unforeseeable thing that characterises today's security policy image. The fall of the Berlin Wall on 9 November 1989 and the terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September last year are examples of unforeseeable events that have dramatically changed international policy. It is important in the laborious work ahead of us that we also do something about the causes of terrorism. If we don't do that, we'll be standing fast without permanent solutions and waiting for the next terrorist attack. Now it's like the terrorists are always in the forefront. Who could have predicted that the next terrorist attack would be targeted at 700 audiences in a Moscow theater? The war in Afghanistan is in the immediate future, as underlined by the rapporteur. The deployed F-16 aeroplanes have so far operated with reconnaissance and deterrence flights and have not fired at a single target. But it doesn't make their mission any less important: they're there, among other things. because the ISAF team and humanitarian organisations are to be safe – a security that must be there if they are to be able to carry out the important tasks that have been assigned to them. President Karzai of Afghanistan said this to the Evening Post on 23 October this year: ‘First, Norway provided humanitarian aid, now helping with security. That's very good." A broad majority of the Committee endorses the allocation for the deployment of F-16 of 300 million. kr for the current year. Other expenditure of 348.5 million. kr is taken within next year's defence budget. If further Norwegian military assistance to Afghanistan is requested, the Committee considers that this should be done in close cooperation with the bodies of Storting according to established practice. So finally, the construction of Afghanistan after 20 years of war and 10 years of terror government is important, and there we have an incredibly exciting challenge as leader of Afghanistan Support Group. These are tasks that should not be under the shadow of the more traditional military tasks performed by Norwegian pilots and their support apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e154	From the point of view of the Progress Party, there has never been any doubt as to Norwegian participation in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ coalition operation in Afghanistan. Norway has participated with special forces, miners, transport aircraft, light armoured field vehicles and a national support unit. The United States later requested Norway to provide six fighter aircraft in cooperation with the Netherlands and Denmark in Manas, Kyrgyzstan, which was natural, as Norway, the Netherlands and Denmark have had long-standing cooperation in the combat aircraft sector. The main task is to support personnel involved in the operation and to combat conflicting Al Qaida and Taliban groupings and military installations. Decommissioning took place and goods until 1 April 2003. The party to the progress is of the opinion that if requested to extend Norwegian military engagement beyond 1 April 2003, this shall be re-examined by the Stortinget. Such a request cannot be ignored, and the Progress Party will, if not entirely different and new assumptions should occur, take a positive view of such a request. It may be crucial to bring down the ever-increasing terrorism that is taking place in the world today, to neutralise Al Qaida and the Taliban as soon as possible. Closely all means can be used in this struggle, and fortunately the majority of the Norwegian population and the majority of the political parties have understood this. The only people on the side line are SV. Contributing, among other things: Fighters, special troops and miners in such operations cost money. However, in order to overcome increasing terrorism and terrorism, Norway, like all other countries, has an obligation to participate — and it helps. Operations have been successful so far. It should also be mentioned that since Norwegian special forces and miners are among the best — possibly the best — in the world, it is our more solar duty to participate in such operations, in the opinion of the Progress Party. However, as I said, it costs money, a lot of money, but in this important fight we must be willing to contribute. If you say A, you get to say B. The party of progress believes that as a result. The additional appropriation should cover the full cost of EUR 648.5 million. kr. We believe that this will be in line with the position that the foreign operation should be financed by additional appropriations beyond the framework of the defence budget. Taking such appropriations within the framework will weaken an already weak defence budget. I would like to remind you here that the Advance Party and the Right were in complete agreement and clear on this before the Right came into government. So it reaches 348.5 million. taken from the framework of the next year’s defence budget, this is a breach of previous government party promises. The government parties are fully in line with the Workers' Party and SV – two parties that have never been defence-friendly. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party for a decision in the vote and to promote this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e169	The representative Width has taken up the suggestion he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e172	The majority of the population today will agree to grant money to send fighter aircraft equipped for bombing to Afghanistan. The planes are already in place. Fortunately, Norway has not been involved in bombing so far. Norway chooses to send bombers, while the majority argue for our participation in supporting humanitarian work. Why is it that fighter planes are equipped for bombing we're sending? The security situation in Afghanistan indicates that peacekeeping forces are strongly required. In the opinion of the SV, Norway should withdraw from ‘Enduring Freedom’ and offer increased support to its security forces, ISAF. It is very unfair that Norway is involved both in waging war and in rebuilding and creating stability. Our war effort is significant and costs several times as much as the humanitarian effort we have contributed in Afghanistan during the same period. By participating in sharp operations, which we are now betting on, we are also at risk of jeopardizing our humanitarian credibility or capital. Instead of participating in this war, we should, in our opinion, have strengthened our efforts to improve the security and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. One of the reasons why SV believes it is appropriate to invest in ISAF in the future is that the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation does not have a clear UN mandate. I would also like to show that this war is being waged by means that violate international law. It's the bomb from a big height. No one cares about counting the killed. The treatment of prisoners is under any criticism. The objectives of the war are also very imprecise. The Taliban is too far removed from power, and the Al Qaida leaders are there no one who knows where. But no one can say when the operations can be finished. There has been a long debate on whether there is really a mandate of international law as a basis for the US-led warfare in Afghanistan. Professor Dr. Juris Geir Ulfstein of the Institute of Public Law writes in the Evening Post on 23 October: ‘The Security Council has, however, not legally recognised the right of the United States to self-defense against Afghanistan. Resolution 1368 only states in its introduction that the Council ‘recognizes the inherent right to individual or collective self-defence in accordance with the UN Charter’. The reference to Article 51 of the United Nations Charter on Self-defence is something other than the recognition of the self-defence of the United States against Afghanistan.’ Many suggest that the mandate of international law is more deficient than what the Council of State claims, both in terms of the basis for initiating the war and in terms of the conduct of the war itself. Norway, of course, has an independent responsibility both for not helping to break our international obligations and for trying to help ensure that others do not break their obligations. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan is difficult. It is estimated that approx. 11⁄2 million people, including 600 000 internal refugees, are threatened as winter approaches. There is still war, increasing crime, the drought continues, and the preparations for winter are in full swing. The World Food Programme in Afghanistan has warned that in the next 12 months, despite increasing cereal production, 4 million people are missing food. 11⁄2 million Afghan refugees have returned from Pakistan. 1.8 million Afghans are still in Pakistan. It is expected that 600 000 will return next year. Afghanistan is one of the countries in the world with the highest proportion of people dying from disease epidemics. About six out of 10,000 children die before age five, and diseases such as acute respiratory diseases, measles and diarrhoea, all of which are easy to cure, are common causes of death. Error feeding is also a major problem. The need to finance humanitarian aid is great. FAO – The UN Food and Agricultural Organisation – asked the international community on 21 October to provide food supplies to Afghanistan and southern Africa. FAO says 71⁄2 million people in Afghanistan are dependent on humanitarian aid. There is a lot of evidence that Afghanistan needs humanitarian aid and increased security to a greater extent than our F-16 war contributions. It will be supported by strengthening ISAF and improving the humanitarian situation, but not by active war effort, as we are now doing with our F-16 in ‘Enduring Freedom’. SV is going to go against the setting. With regard to today's issue, I'm going to take it up in a reply to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e196	At the end of September, Norwegian F-16 aircraft set the course against Afghanistan. The six aeroplanes and personnel should be operational from 1 October of what is known as ‘Enduring Freedom’. Both humanitarian and military action in Afghanistan is primarily a fight against terrorism. The Security Council has defined this as a self-defence following an attack on the United States, and thus the action has a UN mandate. We are morally obliged to fight terrorism and share the burden with other countries in the coalition. Our contributions consist of professional, sought-after and relevant capacities that are important in warfare and in stabilising security and contributing to positive societal development in Afghanistan. NATO alliance solidarity must be taken seriously. That's what we're building our security on in Norway. The operation in Afghanistan was named ‘Enduring Freedom’. It has become a known name in Norway as well. Most people know this force to fight terrorism internationally and strengthen national security in Afghanistan. But fewer think about what the name really means. «True freedom» will be done in good Norwegian. When a person uses the word «permanent», it implies a goal that there will be a peace that will not end when international powers are out of the country. «Ware» also points to the fact that peace is not created overnight. If you have to fight in war, you have to fight even more actively to preserve peace. ‘Freedom’ is strongly underlined in this operation in Afghanistan. Freedom is a cornerstone of the struggle for human rights. The Afghan population suffered under the Taliban regime. The Taliban brutal and feminist regime has been removed. The country has been liberated and has now become an accepted member of the international community. The terrorist network is weakened. Afghanistan has begun the difficult way back as a responsible member of the international community. The Afghan people have been given the opportunity for a future, even if the way ahead is long and mined. A legitimate transitional government has been established. Humanitarian aid appears. Schools are being built. Women can work. The health offer has improved. Over a million refugees have returned. The terrorist network can certainly carry out new terrorist attacks. But the fight against international terrorism will take many years and require a set of coordinated instruments, where military power is only one such instrument. The evening post had an interview with Afghanistan’s president, Hamid Karzai, on October 23. The evening post told him that there have been critical voices in Norway against Norwegian fighter pilots being able to bomb targets in Afghanistan. The answer was immediately: ‘Those who are critical should obtain more information about what is happening here in Afghanistan. They'll find out that the Norwegian pilots are actually helping the Afghans,' said Karzai. First, Norway contributed humanitarian aid, now helping with security. That's very good." Karzai further stated in the interview: ‘Norway has helped Afghanistan in difficult times. Norwegian humanitarian organisations have been at the forefront of aiding Afghanistan and Afghan refugees.’ It's a real fight against terror. The fact that the Norwegian forces have been referred to as the United States mercenaries is a record bomb in this important debate. There is a point that security policy has been exempted from public discussion in Norway. We need a debate both on ethics and on Norwegian interests. It is important that we take a real discussion about Norway’s participation. The fight against terrorism does not mean that we are discussing our contributions. It's the first time in NATO's history that Norway is involved in airplanes like this. That's why transparency around this is very important. The risk of Norwegian forces being involved in sharp missions is high. The Norwegian authorities are responsible if, for example: error bombing occurs. Questions have been asked in relation to the Norwegian back cover. It is clear that errors and deficiencies can happen – and the overall responsibility is with the Government. That is why it is important to take this discussion. But there has been a shift in the direction of prevention in this operation. Norwegian forces shall be ready to respond if necessary and support coalition forces and ground ISAF forces. They shall be able to bomb the Taliban and Al Qaida targets if necessary. This operation is firmly anchored in international law, with the support of both the UN Security Council and NATO. We are obliged to participate, but we have Norwegian control over our contribution – as other countries have over their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e226	It is true, as the representative, Mr Hernæs, points out, that the Central Party is part of the majority of the Defence Committee in this matter. The fact that we were with SV in another case does not mean that there is a line break from the Centre Party. We reserve the right to think independently of any matter of this kind that comes up in this hall. Actually, I wish more people would. I'm a strong NATO fan, and will always be. Nevertheless, it will not prevent me or the rest of the party from being critical when we believe that it is necessary to be critical, both to NATO and to the United States. So it's right that we're part of the majority. We have agreed to participate in operations in Afghanistan. That, of course, does not mean that we want to say yes to any operations in Iraq. There are two different things we're talking about. I actually thought that the representative Hernæs had brought it. When we have said yes to participation in an operation, we also say yes to financing the operation, in the same way that the majority has done. That's why we're in the majority, we're following it up. Of course, there are many of us, including me, who would have liked us to have seen that we could have avoided participating in operations like what we do in Afghanistan. However, the situation did not indicate that it was possible in this case, where the weights of the Centre Party and SV are clearly separated. But the fact that we are involved in this type of operation also makes strict demands on us as a nation, demands that we follow up on humanitarian matters, on aid work, and not least on human rights. It also requires that we follow up on the Norwegian forces involved, in order to ensure that they follow our national guidelines, inter alia. with regard to the type of weapon used. I don't see the need to repeat the things that have been said in previous posts, but I also want to ask the Minister of Defense to confirm that the Norwegian fighter aircraft involved in the operations in Afghanistan are neither carriers of nor users of class bombs. Otherwise, the Central Party supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e237	I would like to begin by thanking the Defence Committee for its broad and important support for the Norwegian contributions to ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF. It is incredibly important for a country like Norway, as a serious NATO member, that we have the widest possible increment behind us when we operate as a NATO member and in international contexts. I am also pleased that the large majority of the committee sees that there is no contradiction between being part of the ‘Operation for Lasting Peace’ and being part of the ISAF security forces. I remember very well the Minister of Defence meeting in Brussels in December, when the ISAF forces were to be put together. Then there were two very clear premises from the country that was then willing to take on the leadership of the action, England. One premise was that ‘Operation Lasting Peace’ had to be willing to coordinate all air transport into and out of Afghanistan, all air activity. And the second premise was that the ISAF forces could call for air support from ‘Operation Lasting Peace’ if necessary. It was a prerequisite for someone to be willing to assume the management of the ISAF forces. I'm taking time to figure out that this is where things are connected. It is not that we can only support a presence through the security forces or just support humanitarian activities. This is because without the ‘Operation of Lasting Peace’ we would not have got the ISAF forces down there. And without “Operation Lasting Peace” and without the ISAF forces, the conditions for those who wanted to provide humanitarian aid had been incredibly difficult and dangerous. So here's the thing that's related. I would also like to remind you that the first plane that went down with humanitarian aid, baby food, as early as December, was an aircraft belonging to the ‘Operation Lasting Peace’. It is therefore like President Karzai so crystal-clearly underlined in the Evening Post: things are related. And those who want to do well for the future of Afghanistan, and those who want to increase humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, must also be willing to put up with capacities that provide security for those who are to face this development. I would also like to add that I am pleased that there is such broad support for the funding of the package we are submitting here. In the case of future contributions, several speakers have argued that the Storting must be cleared in the usual way, and that is a matter of course. We have had close and good contact with Stortinget all the time since December last year, and you should continue to do so. It makes sense that the contributions we choose are also chosen in close cooperation with the Storting. Several of the speakers have asked me to clarify that Norwegian aircraft do not use class bombs. They don't, and it's a matter of course. When the Stortinge under the previous government decided that Norway should work for an international ban on class bombs, it logically led us to stress in our international operations that we should not use class bombs either. There is a clear premise, and there is broad agreement on that both in the Defence Command and in the Ministry of Defence. The planes we're sending to Afghanistan don't have class bombs. The mission that we have associated with the flight operation is not primarily to bomb. It is primarily to be in the air and to provide preventive security for those operating on the ground, whether it is the ISAF forces or those in the ‘Operation Lasting Peace’. Having aeroplanes available in the air and could call on them if they were subjected to rocket attacks or other types of attacks by Al Qaida or Taliban groups allows democratic development and ground humanitarian aid to take place. This does not mean that these planes are also not equipped with a capacity to bomb if you identify logical Al Qaida or Taliban targets. But it's one of four possible operations, and it's not the most important one. Some have underlined the importance of humanitarian aid. Then I would say that the world community at the Tokyo Ministerial Conference in January decided that it would be put at the disposal of 14 billion kroner for humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. It is a clear will for long-term assistance from many donor countries, and most donor countries have paid more than 50 pst. of what was promised in Tokyo. Therefore, humanitarian aid is not opposed to the security instruments that we have in the military.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e260	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e264	I note that the Council of State has now stated that Norwegian F-16 aircraft participating in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation are not equipped with class bombs. It was just supposed to be missing. Today we have been told that class bombs have been used during the exercise on the Hierkin. If – and I specify if – that’s right, it’s quite shocking. The size has decided that Norway should work for an international ban on the use of class bombs. If it has now been used class bombs – I would almost say literally – in Norwegian soil under practice, this will in worst case weaken our international credibility in such negotiations. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that she has now asked for a full review of this matter by Monday morning, as reported by a press release. An examination must also lead to that not repeating itself. Furthermore, in the context of integrated management between the Department and the Defence Staff, the Council of State must also provide for lines of communication in the system which prevent the repetition of such matters. I also note that this morning the Council of State has stated in writing to the High Command of the Defence Department that class bombs should not be used in practice in Norway, and would also ask that she confirm from this interlocutory that such a message has been given today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e275	The decision taken in Stortinget during the previous government that Norway should work for an international ban on class bombs, of course, is totally behind this government. A decision by the Grand Duchy to work for an international ban has certain consequences. That's why this government has told us not to use class bombs in international operations. I think it makes sense that it also means that we don't need to practice with class bombs in Norway. The practice at Hjerkinn and the lookout that has been in the newspapers today that there have been class bombs has not been presented to the Ministry of Defence, and the head of defense confirms in a meeting with me today that he has not known about this exercise either. That means that I have asked for a full review of what has actually happened, and that also means that I have already clarified in writing to the Defence Command in instructions that class bombs from planes should not be used in training and practice in Norway. I expect that during Monday we will have a full overview of what has happened. The decision to cancel the purchase is linked to working for international prohibition, but as I said, the logical consequence of this has been that we do not, of course, use class bombs in operations we participate in. In this way, there should be no reason to practice with it at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e284	This debate has clearly shown that all parties on the Stortinget, except SV, agree on what we are now agreeing to adopt, and agree that we should participate in the operations we participate in in Afghanistan. SV gets to stand on the side line, as they often do in such cases, but for my part it's completely incomprehensible. What I can imagine, however, is asking a question to the Minister of Defence about the budget, because the vote is now called, after all, the ‘Introduction of the Defence Committee on the financing of Norwegian military participation in Afghanistan’. There has not been so much talk about it, but I think it is an important point that the Minister of Defence in the motion for a resolution, which also becomes the majority position in the committee, is helping to weaken the defence budget. I find it strange that a Council of State from the Right is now moving from the old principles and the cooperative constellations that we have had between the Right and the Advance Party earlier in view of the fact that such appropriations are to be excluded from the budget. What the Council of State is now doing, and what the Greatness is now doing, is weakening next year's budget instead of going on supplementary appropriations. As I said in my post earlier: when 348.5 million. kr has been withdrawn from the framework of the next year's defence budget, this is a new breach of previous promises made by the government parties. I would like the Council of State to explain why the Government, and perhaps first of all the Right, is now moving from the principles they have previously had about these supplementary appropriations and how to deal with the framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e291	When we first submitted to the Stortinget a request for approval to place six F-16 aircraft at the disposal of ‘Operation Lasting Peace’, it was provided that these aeroplanes were to be fully deployed in 2002. Then there were practical aspects of the quality of the Manas airstrip that required pushing on the airstrip so that half came in 2002 and half in 2003. I believe that the part of the funding that came in 2002 — and that could have been the whole funding if the deployment had not been shifted — should be taken as an extraordinary allocation, because it would have been impossible to plan it. The 2002 Defence Budget was presented before we planned our Afghanistan contribution. As far as the 2003 defence budget is concerned, it is different. Then we have a completely different predictability, because we already know at the time we prepare the budgets, what we are obliged to do in 2003. That is why the Government found it appropriate to take the part of the Afghanistan operation in 2002 as an extraordinary additional allocation. It will also make sense in the future in the case of exceptional operations that could not have been planned. But in 2003, it was possible to plan, because we knew about the displacement, and so we could put it under the ordinary budget. 1792 International operations, which is the chapter to cover our international activity. I would also like to say that, within the framework of international operations, it was possible to accommodate this part of the ‘Operation Lasting Peace’ and the ISAF, because it is now a natural decline in Kosovo, which all NATO countries are doing in line with democratisation and positive developments in the Balkans. It is therefore possible to have the planable part of the Afghanistan operation within the ordinary chapter of international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e298	In the summer, SV received assurances from the Prime Minister that it is not relevant to equip Norwegian F-16 aircraft now operating in Afghanistan with class bombs. SV greatly appreciated this insurance, and we assume that this is followed up. We also perceived the Prime Minister that he confirmed a principle view of the Government, namely that an international ban on class bombs will continue to be pursued. The Prime Minister writes, inter alia: this: «The government's involvement in the work of international restrictions leading to a ban on the use of class bombs is, as referred to in the letter, clearly stated to the Stortinget.» It is therefore with great wonder that we are reading the nation's headlines today that Belgian defense has been given the opportunity to test class bombs on the Hierkin as late as October 7th this year. The test has revealed to all degrees what is the main problem with class bombs. Error bombing has led to blindfolding. It is reported that the bombs have been released from both Belgian and Norwegian aircraft. Like the famous arms-buying case from Israel, this testifies that the Minister of Defence has failed to create a culture in the institutions she leads, to follow in what is made of political decisions, and to have a minimum of political silence for what should at least be clarified with the Council of State. That being said, of course, the Minister of Defence is fully responsible for what is happening in the Defence. In the case of class bombs, there is even a solar decision from Stortinget, taken on 14 June last year. This considers SV to be very serious. Not least, it's serious at a time when we're actually at war in Afghanistan, where we depend on being able to rely on all the assurances we've been given regarding compliance with the Geneva Convention. How will the Council of States follow this up, so that we can have confidence that we have a defence that acts in accordance with the will of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e314	As I have been quite clear in previous speeches, it is the clear view of both the Minister of Defence and the Government that the F-16 aircraft in Afghanistan should not be equipped with class bombs. That's what we've been saying all along, and that's also true of the aircraft that's been deployed. It is also true that this government will work for an international ban, in line with the decision taken in the previous period. With regard to the specific information related to the exercise on the Brain, I do not want to confirm here that, for example. were Belgian planes, or which planes it was, or what happened, because here it is still very unclear. But what I can confirm is that there's a clear attitude from this government that as long as we're not going to use class bombs in international operations, there's no need to practice class bombs in Norway either. However, I would like to say that the decision to collapse is linked to the fact that we are going to work for an international ban, not necessarily a ban on practice. Nevertheless, there is no doubt – I repeat no doubt – that my attitude is that it is not right to practice class bombs in Norway. What has therefore happened, as this information was published in the media this morning, is that the Ministry of Defence has first clarified in an instruction to the FO that class bombs from planes in training and exercises in Norway should not be used, and then that we want a full review of the matter in question, with a report during Monday on what has actually happened. Then, of course, we will look at how the matter should be handled further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e323	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e328	The matter mentioned in the media today is a very serious matter, because it illustrates that it is not that the Storting can necessarily rely on what the Minister of Defense says from this pulpit, is what the Defense actually stands for. And then you're in a very serious situation. Point 1: It seems that it is quite random that there has become a public awareness that class bombs have been used for exercises on the Brain. And then the question is, do we know if it's used before? Do we know if it has been done the type of exercises using class bombs on Norwegian soil in the past? Point 2: Is it such that a country with a government that says that it is going to combat the use of class bombs internationally is being pushed by other NATO allies to use its own territory to attempt the type of weapon that one is working to abolish? And point 3: The deadlock, if any, that is not now detonated, clearly shows why it is important to fight this type of weapon. There are other countries that are bombarded with class bombs, and that have a lot of untonened blinders lying around. So we're in a situation where there's two things up-to-date. One is about this actual situation, which the Council of State has launched this morning, but which the Storting cannot now get a full picture of, because the Council of State does not have a full overview of it. That is why this matter is even more serious. According to Krohn Devold, the Chief of Defence has no overview, and the Ministry of Defence and the Minister of Defence do not have an overview. Then we are simply in the situation that this is a very serious matter. The Great Government has previously asked the Government to fight this internationally, but we have a defense that does not understand the seriousness of the situation. It cannot be that the lower level of defence does not understand that at the moment you are asked for exercise using class bombs in Norway, no bells are ringing, no one understands that the Minister of Defense must be asked, and no one understands that the head of defence must be asked. It is then the seventh and last question of whether the Minister of Defence has control over his own department. I understand that the Minister of Defence is unable to give any explanation of the facts of this matter today. But I would like to ask when the Stortinget can get a statement on this matter, when the Minister of Defence has a full overview, and whether the Minister of Defence is also prepared to inform the Stortinge about the fundamental issues raised by this case, namely whether the Minister of Defence has full control over his own department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e343	First of all, the representative Kristin Halvorsen says that this case could indicate that you can't trust what the Minister of Defense says in Stortinget. To this I would say that the Minister of Defence has not said anything about exercises on Norwegian soil with the class weapons earlier in Stortinget. What I've said is that we're not going to use class bombs in our international operations, and what I'm saying is that of course I think we shouldn't practice at home for the same reason. What was the big decision was that we should work for an international ban. Then many people think it makes sense that the defense should end from being political about everything that has to do with class bombs, and of course I agree with that. But the decision is related to working for an international ban on class bombs, so that you are absolutely clear about what the decision is here, and what are the implicit reactions around it. Secondly, the representative, Halvorsen, says that it must not be that the Norwegian Defence Department or the Ministry of Defence are being pressured by our allies to train in a way that we are not followers of in Norway. I can assure you, we're not going to be pressurized in this way. What has happened in this matter is simply that neither the head of defence of the Defence Commandment nor the Minister of Defence of the Ministry of Defence has been requested. It is therefore not a matter of someone having let themselves be pushed to anything. Finally, I want to say that what really happened, purely practical, is what we find out. It has been clearly informed that during Monday a full review of the actual conditions will be submitted, and it is also said crystal clear in an instruction sent out earlier today, that exercises and training on Norwegian soil with class bombs from aeroplanes should not occur. Whenever you can inform the Storting about the result of the full review, we will come back when that review is received. But of course, it makes sense, and this Council of States is of course also quite willing to let the information that comes out be presented openly to those who need to be interested.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e354	The President is of the opinion that we are now moving quite far beyond what is set up for treatment on today's map. We have now received a discussion that goes on another question, which in itself is important to clarify. Kristin Halvorsen has asked for the word again and gets the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e359	I must say that I completely disagree with the President's assessment that this is a debate that does not belong in this matter today, because this is the seventh and last thing about the confidence in the Defence and the confidence of the Minister of Defence and the confidence in the full overview of the Ministry of Defence. When we are in a situation where Norway has six F-16 aircraft operating in Afghanistan, this is closely related. The last and last point of this matter is that the Minister of Defence must have immediate control over his own department. Of course, if the defense doesn't realize for itself that when we have a government that works for an international ban on class bombs, it means that you don't start practice with class bombs on Norwegian soil and come to an ally's rescue that has been rejected elsewhere, if the presentation of this case is correct, then the Minister of Defense in the situation is that she has a defence that needs to be fed with teaspoons and capital letters about what follows from the political guidelines she is obliged to follow in relation to this grand hall. That is why the Storting must be given a statement on this matter, which is also about the control of the Minister of Defence over his own department. Because if lamps are not enough to light down the system, this could be one of many examples of a defence that does not comply with the political guidelines adopted here, which the Council of State assures against the Stortinget. I would like to ask that a statement be made as soon as possible to the Stortinget, which is concerned with clarifying this particular matter, which explains whether class bombs have been used in practice on Norwegian soil in the past, and which can crediblely assure the Storting that the Minister of Defence has control over the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e367	The Council of State has now explained that this special case will be explained in the Stortinget. The President does not know how sensible it is to continue the debate on the basis that we have now, but Odd Roger Enoksen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e370	Yes, I have, and I'm going to try to stick to today's case, because I think the Minister of Defense made the situation a little more difficult for himself with the answer she gave instead. The Minister of Defence has not said anything about the use of class bombs on Norwegian soil in this Chamber, said the Minister of Defence. It is an international ban The Storting shall work for. Of course, that's right, but then we end up having to ask the Minister of Defense a question: is it clear and clear to the Defense that class bombs should not be used at all, neither in Norwegian soil nor in other places? When that message was given, the defense has today shown that they are not to be trusted in relation to following the messages given by the Minister of Defence. The Minister of Defense answered both my and Marit Nybakk's questions instead that, of course, class bombs are not used in Afghanistan. Can the Minister of Defence feel absolutely safe about it, if the defence has been told not to use class bombs on Norwegian soil, and does not follow that advice? Should we then believe that the same cannot be done in other situations, do not listen to the instructions given, or is it such that the Minister of Defence has not given a clear indication of how the decision of the Storting should be followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e377	I'll first refer to previous articles and lines. Once again, I would like to make it clear that it is now quite clear, and also stated by this Parliament on the part of the Council of State, that there are no cluster bombs on F-16 aircraft deployed in Kyrgyzstan and flying terrors over Afghanistan, and I am pleased that we have received that response from the Council of State. I would also like to stress that Norwegian guidelines underpin the use of F-16 aircraft and Norwegian framework conditions, not US, in relation to the rules to which the pilots and aircraft are subject. Then I would like to add, because this has also become a debate on the Ministry and the Supreme Command of the Defence and the communication procedures that exist or do not exist, that in the defence agreement that was concluded in June this year between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, we have agreed that an integrated management will be implemented between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Staff. The issue of class bombs illustrates with all possible clarity the need for integrated management and other communication procedures. I would like to make it very clear that the Storting has decided, and that requires me to be at work. Then we note from the Labour Party that the Council of State has launched a review and that a report on that review is to be submitted to the Council of State on Monday morning. We are pleased that it has been done, and we expect to get a statement of the answer that comes from the Defence Command to the Council of State. I have also found in both the press release and from this pulpit that a written message has now been sent to the Defence Command that class bombs from planes in training and exercises should not be used in Norway. I expect that it will now be implemented, and that we will not get any more such cases. Otherwise, I assume that we will return to this matter in a suitable form in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e388	The President is also of the same opinion that it will be completely natural, and then you can discuss the question based on a factual basis rather than assumptions. Harald Espelund has asked for the floor – hopefully for the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e393	I asked for the floor on the agenda. I'm new in this room, and I'm really very surprised, if I'm not to say startled, about how a debate can develop. I understand that it is difficult to be the Grand President and would direct the debate. I also understand that a party that wants to put completely different things in focus than what the debate really is about, in a way has made it clear right here. I would ask the President to be more stringent when someone tries to destroy the debate on the item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e400	The President would simply say that when there is doubt about whether the Government is following the decisions of the magnificence that have been taken, it would make sense to some extent to let the debate go, so the criticism that comes from Harald Espelund does not take the President inward. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e410	We should then be ready to go to voting in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-25.ana.ud1589e417	During the debate, Per Ove Width put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
