ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e30	I take the floor because the chairman of the committee, Mr Ågot Valle, asked questions relating to the police security service. She asked two questions, the first is, what kind of threat picture is what you're operating from? The threat picture from which I now operate is a threat picture for which the Government is responsible. According to the Danielsen Committee, procedures have been implemented, which were first tested in 2000, experimentally, then firmly in 2001 and now in 2002, where the Police Security Service, together with other cooperating services, will present a threat picture to the Government and the Government Security Committee. The treatment of this by the government's security commission is to be seen as a political order. So this is a performance of the Danielsen Committee. I've been following up what I did the last time I had anything to do with this, namely in 2000, and let an unupgraded version of the threat picture go out to the public. There was no significant interest in the media. I think it should arouse a certain interest, because it is a government that is responsible for something. But the card version is as follows: In Norway too, emphasis should be placed on participating in the cooperation that we have nationally and internationally against the new form of terrorism.One should be concerned about combating the classic intelligence activities that many countries can carry out.One should be concerned about combating what we might call refugee pioneering.One should be concerned about combating right-wing remote groups.One should be concerned about ensuring ICT security – data security. Here, along with other intelligence agencies, PST has initiated a very exciting project called the Digital Infrastructure Warning System. It is responsible for taking care of what we call weapons of mass destruction. This is the rough story. It is the long history of the security service that has led to the political anchoring of the type of threat images and therefore orders to the service. That's why I think it's important to ask the question – and say that's the way it is. The second question was competence. It is the case that the police security service – PST – has received an organisational plan for its top members, which is decided by the Government and for which I am responsible, which links an prosecution unit into the staff function that is not only responsible for prosecution but will in practice also act as a legal review in relation to the part of the business that we can call for monitoring. This was at the suggestion of the PST itself, but it is also anchored in the Government, for it is important that such principal questions are anchored. Then the PST has had a reorganization, and they have – as far as I understand it – from the slogan that they are going to have a mix of what we can call old-fashioned policing, that is. It is possible to analyse different social and cultural situations, together with modern competence, which means that different types of data analysis can be carried out. It is the sum of these that shall constitute the service. It is my impression that the service is in the situation now that if they call out jobs, they get a huge number of applicants. I have the faith and confidence in this service that it will be an instrument that will both take care of valuable skills that were built up at the time we faced threats other than now, and will be able to build it together with the modern and new threat picture, which I briefly described instead, and on which several speakers have been involved. I have tried, as well as it can be done, to take an interest in the activity of the service, what it is concerned about, and have also said that it must find a sense of transparency in those parts of its business that should not be secret. We have a society in which many questions are debated, and then it is also important to find this meeting for the public, whether it is a kind of social contact, which they have a legitimate right to operate in connection with different institutions and educational environments in our country, or the purely general business. The service also has – as probably someone is familiar with – Internet pages, where you can present yourself. This is an attempt to answer briefly a very important question from the representative, Valle, in my opinion. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that we have competent intelligence services. It's perhaps one of the most important things we have in being able to prevent the multi-headed troll that modern terror can be. The art is to catch it up in time, and the art is to have citizens who dare to say from now on and who know that they are really being taken care of when they have something important to tell about conditions that threaten our security. It is my opinion that the police security service has a good basis. I have said in the past on this speaker that they are entitled to have politicians stand behind them so that they can solve their important tasks. So the EOS range, which is the design of the Storting, will take care of where it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e64	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e67	I have a question that perhaps someone would say is of academic interest, but which I at least sometimes find interesting. The Minister of Justice has framed a number of groupings that the security police are going to take care of, and I think I understand what he means, and I agree with him. But he was injured to use an expression for such a group – right-wing extremists. That extremists have to be careful, we agree, but I would like to have a clarification on who are right-wing extremists. It is possible that the Minister of Justice is thinking of nynazists. In that case, he gets to mention them like that, and in the case of the left, for national socialism and international socialism of the Communists are on the same side of the political spectrum. If you get to the right and beyond, you finally get to the anarchists, because then there is no government control and nothing at all. Its more one goes to the right, the more freedom for the individual, the less power of the public, and the outermost one there are anarchists. So if it was the nynazists the Minister of Justice had in mind, I fully agree that they should be taken care of. But I want to ask myself that the expression right-hand extremists are used, because that's in the case of the wrong direction. Both Nazism and communism belong together well planted on the far left, for there is almost no difference between the two ideologies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e74	The question from the representative Hagen is, of course, in place. ‘Højrekstrem’ is a Norwegian public language usage for Nynazists. I've never thought of anyone else. In the context that it has also been presented in the media, that's what you've been aiming for. But I would like to clarify myself that way, so that it is also duly registered here in Stortinget. We are talking about neo-Nazi groupings, about their hard core and their supporters, and the representative Hagen and I have a very similar view of how this is to be combated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e81	I think it was a clarifying round of state councils now had. I just want to stress how important it is also to have competence on who does not pose a threat, which may seem to be a threat, but does not. And then I want to do two examples. I was in on a big one -- it could possibly be bigger -- demonstration against the WTO on 9 November last year. What we then experienced was that there were almost more policemen out there than there were demonstrators. Then I asked myself, "What kind of threat picture did the police security service operate with, which must have given a message to the police around this?" The second is what's going to happen in Oslo next week. What we then experience is that globalisation critics are being demonized or criminalized. In any case, the effect of the hostile image that the police have gone out with now is that globalisation critics are being criminalised in people's eyes. The result is that the right to express itself through demonstrations is violated. The result is that grandmothers – if not this grandma, because this grandmother is going to go on a demonstration – and people with baby carriages will stay away, and the result is also to ask for trouble. I also ask because the police have clearly given advice to the Municipality of Oslo about the use of schools. I know that most of Hersleb's school was going to give overnight accommodations to SU people who were at the national meeting and who were going to attend this demonstration. Are SU and Attac part of the threat scene? And if they don't, what will the Council of State do to ensure that criminalisation stops?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e97	First of all, I am not the City Councillor in Oslo, I am not the head of the Oslo Police District, nor is I the police director. But of course I'm informed. The police's main picture of this event, which they've tried to get along with, but which has not been as easy to get along with, without me going to elaborate on it, is that it's a research conference. A similar research conference was held here in April, I think, guarded by two police officers. So now it's a research conference. At that research conference, a very well-prepared legal demonstration has been reported under the auspices of Oslo 2002, which has had a very direct dialogue with the police. There are groups that the police have invited to dialogue, who have not set up and taken the dialogue – I think, among other things. the case of Attac. There are other groups – without my naming them – that the police have invited to dialogue, who have also not responded to the dialogue invitation. But the police have gone out wide to invite a dialogue to make sure that what is supposed to be the most important and true thing is that a large, large amount of peaceful non-violent demonstrators are going to be able to express their opinions. What is the situation from previous demonstrations, and which I will not assess now, is that it has happened that there have been travellers in violent provocations who have had as a line to do their best to provoke the police. I think the police are aware that someone might think they are. Who they are and how many they might be, we'll only see that when it all happens. But there is no doubt that the disciplined conduct of demonstrators who want to express themselves on a peaceful and good basis is the most important thing. And the police have briefed me on how they cooperated, among other things. it has «Oslo 2002». I am not aware that any of the organisations that the representative Valle brings up should belong to an enemy image. We're talking about groups that are beyond Socialist Youth in that case, and I don't want to go into detail, except to say that there might be someone acting like that. And then I would say it this way: it would be a lack of service for the police not to be prepared for anyone to act like this. You have to be based on the fact that most people are peaceful, and do their utmost not to be provoked.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e104	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e109	I found it necessary to draw up a three-minute report to refute a totally erroneous assertion made earlier in the debate, during the morning meeting, namely the claim that the majority undermines the authority of the EOS Committee. This is an up-to-date delusion, and it won't be more accurate if it repeats. We, the majority of us, are basing ourselves on what the EOS Committee is criticizing for dealing with the Ellingsen case. This criticism has also been said and written several times by the Minister of Defence that she takes note – long before this debate. However, the minority, the Progress Party and the SV, should also take into account that the EOS Committee concludes that the sample has not found a basis for further investigations or otherwise proceeding with the case. When the case is appealed by the Ministry of Defence of the Law's Law, I strongly react to the fact that individual representatives here in the Chamber go a long way in prosecuting the case, drawing conclusions and making claims that they could not possibly have coverage for. They should go to their payroll chamber and think through whether, by such conduct, they can actually do a great deal of damage to the person concerned. It is the right of law to decide on the substance of the matter, without interference from individual representatives, minorities or a majority in the Chamber. It may not be possible for the plenary part-session to be a sort of preparatory law of the team, or for individual representatives in this Chamber to raise themselves to a combination of a self-appointed national auditor or the State's senior head of staff. It deserves only one characteristic: embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e118	When it is said and warned that the Storting may be at risk of undermining the authority of the EOS Committee, it is based on the fact that the EOS Committee has notified this matter to the Stortinget. Then it is the Storting's duty to take that ball and carry it on. However, I would like to commend the Council of State, the Minister of Defence, today, and it is that she has so clearly stressed that the EOS Committee should have authority and authority. But she's the one who's done it, and not the majority of the Biggest. Then I would say that I'm responding to the claim that we mix roles. It's our duty to take the ball when the EOS committee reports criticism. It is not the case that the EOS Committee is a court of law that resolves the matter when you find nothing more. That's not how it is. It is not on the basis that the EOS Committee has now concluded this case. I would like to remind you that this was also a matter that Stortinget dealt with last year. Also, the case was for the legal system, to the extent that the parties had started to exchange procedural documents. At that time Stortinget took responsibility by going further with the criticism. I am on the point that it should also do this big thing, and I hope that on later occasions, if it is necessary to raise a case on this matter, then I dare to go on with it and take the responsibility that we have as a big deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3406]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e145	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e152	During the last year, the cows have almost exploded. The imbalance in the criminal chain is now reflected in the fact that the criminal justice system does not have the power to receive the increase in the number of convictions resulting from a more active police and judicial system. It is not useful to send more money to the police and a little to the courts if you do not follow up with the equivalent for the criminal justice system. What we have experienced now is that scarce budgets for criminal care result in settlement cows, lack of custody and lack of follow-up of prisoners. The government is now making an effort by promoting a proposition for the Storting to rectify something with a proposal to convert Vardåsen clay into a prison facility. A unanimous committee gives its support to this. When the plant is finally completed in the autumn of 2003, it will provide 110 new sites. However, this will not be able to solve the problem of the cows. Today’s cows represent a volume equal to 460 prison places in a year. The working party therefore calls for the Government to address this issue more thoroughly. We believe that the Government must now present a comprehensive plan for the construction, modernisation and extension of criminal services in connection with the budget for the autumn. Of course, the most desirable way to increase capacity is to build new prisons. It also provides an opportunity to put old and not suitable prisons in place, as we are doing in connection with Vardåsen by putting down Kongswinger prison. However, it is also possible to build on existing installations. Regional directorates of criminal services have estimated that it is possible to establish up to 380 new settlements within the existing prisons, including Vardåsen. I therefore call on the Minister of Justice to address this now and to give priority to criminal services in connection with the budget proposal for the autumn. I am pleased that the majority support the Workers' Party's proposal to establish a decentralised training scheme for prison officers in Kongsvinger from the autumn of 2003 in connection with the conversion of Vardåsen camp into prison. Kongsvinger municipality has good and necessary infrastructure and competence to meet an educational need. In order to address the precarious need for settlements, more prison officers need to be trained, and this training facility will quickly train 50 new officers. By establishing a teaching system on Kongsvinger, we will be able to recruit people from all over the region. It will be a great advantage, as we already have a local connection to the region through prisons. We can also expect that we can get a more stable crew at the prison by getting a decentralized education. We have the same experience in setting up similar training schemes in the south, in Rogaland, where it is felt that recruiting prison officers is easier, and a more stable staff is provided when you have a decentralised educational system. I would encourage the Council of State to look at the whole educational system, with opportunities to train more in the future in prison officers in the regions instead of solving it only centrally, precisely on the basis that we see that the need for training of prison officers is going to increase significantly in the years to come, through the need for more settlement sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e173	It is very gratifying that the government has returned so quickly to Stortinget with this matter of Vardåsen clay which was recorded in connection with the budget in the autumn. Then there was a thought that has now been transformed into action. It's gone incredibly fast. From the date of the inclusion of the case in the budget in the autumn of 2001, settlement sites will now be established in the autumn of 2002. One must say is quick action. I am very pleased that Kongsvinger Municipal Council has also dealt with the matter quickly, and I have unanimously joined the scheme that has now been outlined. Of course, it means a lot to Kongswinger to get the jobs that belong to this prison, but most importantly, we are now getting a grip that can help reduce the growing queues. I hope we can now reverse that trend. I know the government is busy with this. We need a balance in the criminal justice chain. Therefore, it is positive that there is an overall committee that now supports the Government’s proposal to turn Vardåsen camp into a prison. It is very positive that we have also agreed on the formulation of decentralised education. I want to stress that to the extent that recruiting people to prison is a problem, it is important that you can have a training offer in the regions where new institutions are set up. This is something we have to keep working with. I am also pleased that the committee so far seems to be involved in untraditional measures to put in place more places of reconciliation. I hope that the Government will also further consider different solutions to quickly build down the queue we have, and to quickly gain a larger capacity. The capacity utilisation is at its peak. It's 98-99 pst. occupations in prisons. That means that there's a lot of force being put in here by the employees to get the queues away. That's good. Then we'll see when we move on, if we can find new measures. Appropriations are important, but it is also important to have measures to ensure that a person is provided with accommodation, but also staff to handle the prisoners. I am pleased with today's decision and hope now that we will see results. The government has also decided to build a new large prison in Eastfold. It'll take some time before it'll be in place. In the meantime, we need to find untraditional solutions, which the government has done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e186	The Christian People's Party attaches great importance to the work of building up the reconciliation queue. The fastest way to increase capacity is to take over Vardåsen camp on Kongsvinger from the Defense and transform it into a prison. I am pleased that a joint committee is in favour of Vardåsen clay, which is the best option in the short term for the fastest to expand the housing capacity. The aim is to establish 40 open sites at Vardåsen from September 2002 and use them while the rest of the site is being rebuilt. From the early autumn of 2003, Vardåsen is to apply approx. 110 places that will be used to downgrade the nesting queue. Then Vardåsen will be an ordinary 82-place prison. The development of the queue is worrying, as the Committee has also expressed through previous budgetary observations and in the debates on the fight against crime. It will be scarce to provide more and more stringent criminal and custodian homes if they do not reduce pay queues. This work must, in the view of the Christian People's Party, follow several strategies. All criminal species must be used as intended by the Storting. Free capacity in existing prisons must be used. But most importantly, more prison sites need to be established. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there are now opportunities for a rapid establishment of prison on former Vardåsen camp on Kongsvinger, and supports the plans that exist. It is positive that the local government in Kongsvinger municipality is for the solution proposed for Vardåsen camp. All the establishment of prison activities requires close and flexible cooperation with local authorities. In addition, the municipality will contribute to the rapid establishment of the site within the deadlines set. Without such an understanding you would have to look around for other alternatives. The Christian People's Party also chooses to point out the need for thorough information to the citizens of the municipality about the content and reality of the plans, so that unnecessary uncertainty is not created. At the same time, it is important that the establishment of prisons should take into account the military and cultural historical facilities of national value that are in the vicinity of Vardåsen and a future prison. The area around the prison is still assumed to be used as the significant open-air area. In order to ensure rapid access to professional personnel at Vardåsen clay, it is proposed to set up an exceptional training scheme with half-time training for 50 prison officers. The Christian People's Party has noted that parts of the practice for this coal can be linked to Kongswinger and Vardåsen in 2002–2003. When recruiting officers, there will be a great advantage with already local connection to the region around Kongsvinger. A decentralised educational system should therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, be located in the region, which Kongsvinger municipality has already signaled great willingness to facilitate, inter alia. for localities. The municipality has highlighted that it possesses good and necessary infrastructure and competence to meet a training need. The Committee also asks the Ministry to come back with proposals on how and under what conditions a decentralised training scheme can be used in the future, starting from Kongswinger, from the autumn of 2003. It may be that there are other areas around the country which have difficulties recruiting officers, but which, through such a scheme, may provide the necessary incentives for recruitment. In that case, it will show the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e207	There are more and more speakers on the list, to a unanimous vote – Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e210	The central party has no representative in the judicial committee, and we want to attach some comments to this position. We support the setting in terms of the efforts to bring down the reconciliation queue, and will give honor to the Minister of Justice and the Government for it to be acted on so quickly. We also support the use of Vardåsen clay, and we note that there is a unanimous municipal government in Kongsvinger that has agreed to this. However, I could have personally thought that we had had a slightly different progress in this. Today it will be definitely the end of Haslemoen camp in Våler. I think that camp might have been as well suited to prison as Vardåsen. I am also of the opinion that we should have dealt with the so-called vulnerability message, St.meld. No 17 for 2001–02, and looked at what is to be done in the wake of that treatment. The establishment of a possible Emergency and Security Directorate would be interesting in this region, and then Vardåsen could have been a natural and very topical centre for the more technical aspects of it. The goods have advanced communication equipment and could have been a centre for communication and coordination in terms of preparedness and crisis management. However, this is not the case, and it is not the case that you have arranged for this. By means of a close communication with Kongsvinger municipality, we support the setting. It is also interesting to note that a decentralised educational system for prison officers in Kongsvinger is being added. It should be such that this develops into a permanent teaching system, and it is well suited for this in Kongswinger. I hope that what will be put in place in Kongsvinger is a start on something that could become a permanent, decentralised training offer for prison officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e221	As has been mentioned several times in this room, there is a major problem with cows in the Kingdom. It can be seen that, especially in the care situation, there is a problem, and you should not ignore the fact that with the crime scene you are now seeing, you can get a lot more punishment. No matter how you turn it around, the need for more shelters will be acute, even after you have put Vardåsen camp in place. I think it's very pleasant and pleasant that you look at alternative solutions here to just build up a prison from scratch, and that you use parts of what you already have. It is likely that the possibility of modular solutions should also be considered, including, where appropriate, whether it is necessary to localise in the vicinity of prison or whether one can actually also see the possibility of a form of liquid variant, such as prison. have tried in England and which the English authorities have in fact gone into and considered expanding. In any case, the point is to get hold of prison places to bring down the queue, and in this context, perhaps a floating variant – where you went into agreements from five to ten years – could take a peak, without necessarily having to build much more than what you might need in the longer term, hopefully. Finally, I want to say that we are very pleased that you also think untraditionally about the training of prison officers, because it doesn't help having many vacant cells if you don't have employees to do the job. This is a model I hope the government will also consider in some other contexts, not only at Vardåsen camp.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e230	As far as criminal law is concerned, much of the focus in the review of the revised budget has been on different aspects of the Vardåsen project. Today’s decision-making process has been based on the rapid start of practical work to establish prison operations in the facility that the Defence Department is now relocating. The 30 million contained as investment funds are a good start both for the purchase of the facility and for starting the reconstruction work. We all know that the final statement on the investment side is going to be higher – state buildings have estimated this at 110 million. NOK – and I will come back to that. It is also the case that the plant will establish 40 open pastures for the autumn – it will reach 110, among others. when using doubles early next harvest – and then the closed places will come after that. But as I said, progress – I will come back to that. For the record, we don't have any other prison project that's so cheap to realize by now. space giving equivalent good quality in the final product. A complete new installation would cost significantly more. I am also pleased with the development that took place locally, by asking critical and wondering questions, taking the time to take information and assess it, and getting a unanimous vote in the local government. It's very good, and it promises well. I would like to stress that the new Kongswinger prison to be established in the former defence facility is a good and important project both in the short and long term. The short-term perspective is linked to the rapid establishment of shelters that can be taken away from the housing queue during the conversion period. It is extremely important to be able to reduce future growth in the housing queue. The long-term perspective is partly that the new institution will contribute to higher total capacity, and partly that the institution can be developed so that it can also offer crime prevention measures during the implementation of the penalty. Different reconciliation regimes allow for individualisation and for more focus on exclusion and release quality than in today's Kongswinger prison. This helps to prevent recurrences. Employees will have great framework conditions around their professional efforts. It is the combination of this short-term gain and the long-term quality improvement that makes this approach a win-win concept. Implementation of the project will pose many challenges both in progress and in solutions. Realisation depends on local enthusiasm, both in criminal matters and in the municipality. Those who are now responsible for the project must be given the freedom of action to deliver within the political framework laid down. They'll make it, but not without getting tired – but that's the way it works. The establishment of new Kingswings prison is not only a good single measure, but also an element of a long-term strategy to meet the capacity challenges of criminal justice. Everyone agrees that if we are serious about the fight against crime, we must have sufficient criminal enforcement capacity. Then we need to focus on different measures in an overall strategy. An important measure is full progress in the project for the new large prison in Halden. 250 prison sites will contribute well. Another important measure will be the establishment of the social penalty as a credible alternative to the less serious crime. If prosecution authorities and courts choose to take out a greater share of the penalty volume in the form of community sanctions, we will have a greater multiple in the fight against crime and a reduced need for expensive prisons. It is probably the sum of these measures, social penalties, conflict mediation, § 12 zoning and the increase in the number of settlements, both open and closed, that will be the answer. It's true that the government has an obligation to tell the Storting what we think about this when we're going to present a budget. It's also so that we have to be reasonable and rational when we do it. We have to pick the measures that actually give the best effect to the invested kroner. We have to choose the measures that give the best effect to good recruitment. Of course, I will follow up the recruitment proposal that is in the Committee's position on a decentralised approach. And we need to be able to evaluate different projects, which in total will provide safe progress, both in the short and long term. This is the government's duty to balance and evaluate, and of course I will come back to that. Let me also say that there has been a lot of pressure in Stortinget this spring on the cows, both on the length of the queues and on the contents of the cushion. What I personally think has been the joy of this matter is that it has been possible to achieve cross-political mobilization, especially at the moment when it seemed that at Kongswinger you really wanted a health project more than a prison. Then it was willing to go in and bet, so that you could get a local chance to assess this as the project it was. This cooperation line, which was followed by several parties, I believe that both locally and centrally have been involved in the development of this project. Once we've been running politics for a while, we know that it's easy to get things to cut. It's done fast. And then we know that there's a lot of people who have to lift in a flock and go together so that it doesn't intersect. I want to finish this article by saying that I am pleased that many have been willing to take up a roof, so that we can put in place the Vardåsen project and the prison capacity it will provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e258	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e261	This is one of the issues that has dealt with me relatively much lately, both because I am a representative from Hedmark County, and perhaps even more because I have served at Vardåsen as a sports officer. Even though you might not believe it, I did it for a few years ago. That way I know the place very well and know that this is a nice place that can be used for quite a lot. When the Vardåsen first needs to be closed, it is important to fill this place with something. There were two things that were set up against each other. One was a health project in one form or another, and the other was prison. This engaged the inhabitants of Kongswinger quite strongly. There were signing campaigns on both sides, and if I remember correctly, there were 3,000 to 4,000 signatures on each side. But when it didn't get healthy, I think it's okay that it's going to be prison, and that you can use the area for the business you need. In this way, I commend the Committee on Rapid and Good Work. What I as a defence politician is concerned about is what's on page 2: ‘The Committee points out that the establishment of the prison must take into account the military and cultural historical facilities of national value that are in the vicinity of Vardåsen and a future prison.’ I think it's good that the committee has written it. It is clear that there is some uncertainty in a relatively small area about getting a prison in the vicinity. Information is therefore important. Otherwise, I also register that those who have worked at Vardåsen will be given the opportunity to work in connection with the prison. So the sum sum I think this looks good. Otherwise, to the extent that I have a small prayer, I also have, if possible, more prisons for Hedmark. There are several military installations to be closed in Norway, among others. Haslemoen, although it is two years ahead – 31 July 2004. I guess I'm not quite convinced that the reconciliation queues are gone by then, so it might be something to consider having Haslemoen as a future place to place that kind of clientele.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e280	I am very pleased that this case has now come so far that we are invited to make a decision to convert Vardåsen camp into prison – with a quick start. It's almost ten months since the Christian People's Party in its press conference at Kongsvinger started the political process in this matter. Since I was a member of the Justice Committee during the previous period, I was involved in the handling of the Criminal Service Notice. I would quote three «blue boxes» from St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98, on criminal law, which briefly and in a good manner outlines the direction of criminal law. That's vision: ‘Active crime prevention — safer societies’. About the activity page: ‘Criminal care is the criminal justice system of society.The penalty is to be implemented in a way that safeguards society and provides the best possible conditions for a crime-free life. The work of criminal services shall be characterised by legal certainty and a high level of professional standards.» In the case of main objectives: ‘The criminal justice system shall implement the responses decided by the prosecution authority or be sentenced by the court.The criminal justice system shall facilitate the criminal justice system to make its own efforts to change its criminal behaviour.’ In addition, I would like to add to the importance that there is a balance in the criminal chain, between police, justice and criminal justice. Now we see that the lack of settlements is a plug in that system and gives an imbalance that is very unfortunate. It is important for those who are convicted to be punished as quickly as possible and to be able to restart as good citizens of society. The goods have the opportunity to become a prison that can successfully pursue the main objective and facilitate the situation for the offender to make his or her own efforts to change his or her criminal behaviour. It is well suited for a good start to life after reconciliation. Information to the local population remains important. Despite the fact that we have had a prison in the middle of the city in approx. 130-140 years, the debate has shown that the open, positive dialogue that has been over the past few weeks should continue. A good starting point may be the basis for the work done in the criminal justice system, where in time the criminal service report was one of those points.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e310	It's great that we have a social development that makes us need fewer military camps. It's bad that we have a social development that makes us need more prisons. In common, we have to hope that once in the future we will be missing prisoners and have too many employees in criminal matters too, but it will probably be a long time, unfortunately. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3407]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e328	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e335	Although rules on the treatment of intoxicated persons admitted to police detention have been improved in recent years, tragic deaths have occurred in the arrests. In 2002, about 18 000 people were brought to the police detention centre in Oslo. Today, there is an obligation to assess whether there is a need for medical supervision when intoxicated persons are admitted to the police detention centre. Paragraphs 9 to 4 of the Police Instructions provide that persons who are arrested must be properly supervised and, as far as possible, placed in such a way that they are not harmed or suffering unnecessary suffering and cannot cause other damage. The arrestors shall be inspected every half an hour, unless the circumstances warrant more frequent supervision. The date of each inspection and its outcome shall be noted in the watch record. Although we have confidence that the police are carrying out these checks, a unanimous committee believes that there is still a need to go through rules, instructions and procedures for police handling arrests in the police arrests, and therefore we support the Police Directorate's efforts to improve this. The Committee also considers that other supervision and control systems could contribute to the improvement of safety, in addition to the involvement of the necessary health professionals. The right believes that an important contribution to improving the supervision of arrestees in police arrests is that other instruments, such as: communication and monitoring equipment is assessed so that we can have more comprehensive supervision that can address this in a better way. The Committee also considers that it is necessary for the Police Directorate’s investigation to be carried out as quickly as possible, in order to assess the need for change and resource use. The Committee would also stress the importance of police control of the status of the prisoners in the police arrests. In view of this, a unanimous committee is therefore in favour of the Government promoting the necessary changes to the police law, so that the necessary health professionals are involved in the introduction of persons for police arrest, which can reasonably be considered as having serious health consequences due to the consumption of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e354	Good guidelines on how to deal with people who are admitted and who are drug addicts are important. I know the police take the task seriously. I also know that the Department has done a part in relation to the Police Directorate in relation to these matters, but I would nevertheless like to say that there is a positive initiative by the proposers here, perhaps by laying down an even greater degree of precautionary principle. Perhaps the greatest difference between the proposal being promoted and the recommendation is that the Committee's position states that one should not only involve health professionals where the individuals are at risk to themselves, but also in those cases where they are considered to be likely to suffer serious health damage. The starting point is that it is better to involve health professionals once too much than once too little. It also makes it easier for police officers without health education to be able to get this very possibility in the form of instructions to involve competent health professionals, and thus also to get a professional group that has knowledge in this area to make some decisions that, of course, would be problematic for police officers to take on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e361	The next speaker is Inga Marte Thorkildsen, then Finn Kristian Marthinsen. The President is still of the opinion that noise does not belong in the negotiations of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e366	It's strange, then, that the president hasn't found it in his place to comment on it before, but at least I'll take it for information. When it comes to this matter, I will be brief. There's no clue that we're driving and pulling out the speaking time so we'll be sitting here until 5:00 in the morning. But I think it's important to point out that this was a proposal that SV came up with on the basis of a number of cases where people have died in the drunk, and a girl who died after she was picked up by child protection and put on isolates without a medical check. I think it is important for the police not to take as much responsibility as they have taken so far. It must feel quite terrible as a police officer, who is often under pressure, to make a decision that can have major consequences. What's important is that we let them not take that responsibility, and rather that we are now providing really good routines for health professionals to be put on the track. It is true that people who are overly drunk and where there may be a risk of serious health damage belong, not to the drunkard, but to the bodyguard. We are very pleased that we got a unanimous committee on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e382	What is the background for such document No. Unfortunately, 8 proposals are often tragic. That's also true of what we're dealing with right now. When death occurs, it is a tragic case for both those who are responsible for the police, and of course also for us as a society, because it may indicate that we are not doing our job well enough for those who have problems. It's important to do something about it. It is therefore clear that this proposal by representatives of the SV and the Workers' Party is a good proposal, which is about taking seriously the situation that is actually in our society. On the other hand, I really feel a little sorry for the police, which is being put in place to enforce laws that require skills that, as far as I know, are not given in police training. It says in the police law – and I use my own words instead of the words used in the wording of the law – that if you suspect that this is serious, you should ask: Do you need help from a doctor or someone who can look at you, do you need medical supervision? And if he answers yes, he or she will. If they are not able to answer properly, then the person asking the questions shall exercise a discretion and think as follows: he needs supervision, or he does not need supervision. What has to be a problem, of course, is to know whether or not he is on an uppance. So every half-hour you have to get in touch with the person you're dealing with. I think that so far there can be a good rule in this, in order to avoid tragic cases. Yet it happens. It either means that it's not good enough, or that it's not possible to secure 100 pst. against the occurrence of such a situation. Then it's important that we at least look at what we have of procedures and ways to do things, and find out if there's any potential for improvement. I believe that is what the Minister of Justice pointed out in his reply to the Committee, that there is now a full review of all this, plus in what the Committee has adopted in its position. I hope for the police as well as for the future of the one being apprehended and introduced, that we will come a little further. Personally, I am enough of the opinion that aspects of the Danish system could be something to look at, but I am not sure, after all, whether the system works very much better than the Norwegian system, and that will of course cost money. In this context, however, it is not a matter of money for me. It's about saving lives, and it's also about exempting people from bad conscience for being involved in something that led to the death of a human being in their custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e393	It is almost time for a short comment, but I want to add some comments to this matter. It is as the previous speaker said, sad that tragic events must happen before a person grasps it. There have been several such events, and I therefore think it is timely that we have this matter now. I will give tribute to the proposers of this Document No. The 8 proposal, in order to put this on the agenda, will have a debate on it and will also receive the necessary improvements. One can see in the media during the day that the police themselves put their practices and their professional practices in focus, and I therefore think it is right that we also look at this particular problem. That it costs more money, I think in this context is completely inferior. I don't think that good routines and the involvement of health professionals in this context will be so very costly. I think it's a good setting the committee has presented. I hope that the work on the investigation, carried out by the Police Directorate today, is done quickly, and that one in line with what the Committee notes here, can come up with practical solutions that provide greater security for arresters who cannot take care of themselves and who are poor because of, for example, the intake of drugs. drugs. It is also important to note the latest in the proposal for a decision: «Proposals for similar provisions must be made for persons brought into the institutions of the protection of children.»; In this way, a follow-up can take place both in prison and in child protection institutions in relation to these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e411	Under Section 9 of the Police Act, the police have access to ingesting intoxicated persons who interfere with public order or lawful movement, harming others or endangering themselves or others. Section 9 of the Police Act obliges the police to conduct a medical examination when necessary. However, the Police Act provides room for discretion by requiring police to make an assessment of the need for medical supervision. This is clarified in the second paragraph of Section 9-2 of the Police Instructions, which obliges the police to request or otherwise apply for clarification as to whether the condition of the offence is such that medical supervision is assumed to be necessary. A medical examination shall then be prescribed without delay. Paragraphs 9 to 4 of the Police Instructions provide that persons who are arrested must be properly supervised and, as far as possible, placed in such a way that they are not harmed or suffering unnecessary suffering and cannot cause other damage. The Ministry of Justice has previously stressed to the police officers in a circular dated 13 April 1999 on the control of police detentions that the watch-leader is to take a concrete position on what is to be done during each inspection, taking into account what is necessary in each case. Of course, I have noted the unanimous recommendation of the Judicial Committee to promote amendments to the Law on Police Section 9 with a view to obtaining a provision that ensures that the necessary health professionals are involved when persons who can reasonably be considered to be seriously injured by the consumption of drugs are brought to police detention. Although the rules governing the treatment of intoxicated persons in police detention have been improved in recent years, tragic deaths have occurred in the arrests. This is why the Directorate of Police is commissioned to review the rules, instructions and procedures for the police handling of arrestors in the police arrests. The Directorate has set up a working group with a mandate to assess the legislation and make proposals for improvements in this area. The working group shall, inter alia: review and assess the needs of the police for the assistance of health professionals during detention and detention, review and assess communication and surveillance equipment contained in the arrests, and assess supervisory arrangements or other control arrangements relating to the supervision of arrestors in the custody of the police. I have been informed that the working group will submit the report to the police director by 1 July this year. I will go carefully through the workgroup's proposals in this investigation and the police director's recommendations. I agree with the Committee that there is a need for better and safer treatment of drunken detainees. In the light of the work group's assessments and proposals for action, I would like to propose concrete measures that can be taken within a reasonable period of time to achieve further improvements in improving the health oversight of intoxicated prisoners who are at risk to themselves. I would also like to follow up the Committee's comments and suggestions on the need to improve the provisions of Section 9 of the Police Act at this point in order to be able to follow up with a better police check on the state of the prisoners in the police arrests. In this context, the scheme in Denmark will be useful to see what experience is there in this context. This scheme is probably far more resource-intensive than the current scheme in Norway. The working group has also been involved in this scheme and provides an assessment of it. Against this background, in my view, we will have good conditions to improve the possibilities for better treatment of drunken arrestees in the police arrests. Of course, I have also noticed what is in the proposal to also look at the situation of child protection institutions on the basis that we have also had tragic deaths there, and although that is not my subject, I will of course ensure that that part of the committee's position is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e430	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3407]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e446	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e453	The first and most important of these is the finding that the Ministry actually concluded a long-term lease agreement on 26 April of this year and a positive feedback from the Judicial Committee on that matter. The second is that the assumption at the time of the conclusion of the agreement is that the Ministry will use the school centre in Stavern to a large extent. Thirdly, what activities will take place in Stavern will be decided after a review of the overall training and follow-up services provided by the police. This was the first written by the Minister of Justice in a letter of reply to the Committee and, secondly, in a written reply dated 16 May. on written questions from Committee member Storberget, dated 13 May. Fourthly, the establishment of a future police preparedness and training centre, other emergency facilities and civil defence is being assessed at the current Air Force School Centre in Stavern. This was noted by the Judicial Committee and, in an opinion of the chairperson of the Judicial Committee, the chairperson of the Defence Committee and the Advocate General for the Notice of Vulnerability, it was claimed in the evening of 18 June: ‘In the meantime’ — until the release of the Vulnerability Communication on 22 October, my addition — ‘the Committees have given the Minister of Justice the green light to continue working with, among others. ... development of the former military area of Stavern.’» So to document number itself. The 8th proposal: Before the lease was concluded, the Minister of Justice thought of the lease with the parties in the Judicial Committee. The Progress Party was also briefed. It is strange that a private proposal is made about what you know is already under work. I allow myself to ask the question: Is the intention to claim copyright for the idea, so that the Progress Party may welcome the rest after, as the representative Ellings did last Monday in case No. 4 on SEFO, also on a situation which is in the consultation phase and therefore at the preparatory level? It would be unfortunate if political consultation would result in some trying to score political points by being first out of business. The same will apply if you use the Yellow Book to get the Government in advance. It's not about welcoming someone after, is it? Document No The 8 proposal could have been rejected on the grounds that agreement has already been reached and that the Ministry should assess the use of the school centre in Stavern. Instead, when the Committee recommends that the document be annexed to the Protocol, it is in order to give the State Council and the Ministry full freedom to assess all the matters relevant to the exploitation of the school centre, with coordination gains as objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e475	This proposal by the Progress Party is, in fact, about the use of the Air Force School Centre in Stavern. The working party is also concerned with ensuring continued activity in Stavern. We are therefore very positive that the Ministry of Justice has signed a lease in Stavern. In this context, there is a plan for a collection of training activities within the justice sector. I am not going to pre-empt the treatment of the Social Security report, which we are going to deal with here in the Stortingen to the autumn, where it is said that a future emergency and training centre for the police, other emergency facilities and civil defence at the Air Force School Centre in Stavern is being assessed. But it is well suited for future activity in Stavern. I am a little surprised at the procedure of the Advance Party in this matter. Without being asked about the management of the Police College or the elected representatives of the Trustees, they believe that only a proposal in the United Kingdom should be made to adopt a move. Any move must be dealt with in a much more thorough way, where it is assessed by the various bodies after users and employees have been consulted. This does not mean that the proposers have assumptions that there will be great benefits to them. It is a matter of ensuring the quality of such projects. But the most important thing here is to establish new businesses in Stavern. We are therefore very pleased with the initiatives taken by the Minister of Justice, and we think it is well suited to the future activity in Stavern.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e488	First of all, I would like to say that it is interesting that the Christian People's Party believes that in this context the Progress Party has run as fast as possible to promote a case in front of any imprudent government. As we say here, an agreement between the ministries was concluded on 26 April, and thus, as stated in Document No. The 8-proposal, this was promoted on 11 April. So it could be tempting to ask if it is the Government, which, in order to avoid making a decision, initiates measures to avoid being positive to the Progress Party Document No. Eight proposals. But I'll leave it. What's the point for us is that we're sitting here with a defense facility that's in good condition, and it's actually not that many years since you got this in just the good constitution. It has been used as a school centre in the past and is thus a very good starting point for coordination of the Police College. It is therefore true that in Oslo there is a fairly widespread education for the police high school, and everyone is aware that it does not provide optimum operating conditions. When you have a situation where you have both necessary teaching facilities and training facilities, and then you have accommodation for the students, it is strange that you should not be able to suggest this. I know that other debates in this house are on the need for student housing. Here you have the option, but you just don't want to use it. So to the question of whether this could be quality assured, or that it was something easy to jump on, which I understood Gunn Karin Gjul from the Workers' Party was in the house. So this is what you've been looking at. The police and the police community are very pleased with the proposal, and they want it implemented. And you've even been on an inspection down there. So claiming that this is something that you're just raising because you think it's funny, I hope at least that wasn't what the representative meant. So a slightly different matter that I must admit is a little interesting, especially from the point of view of the Workers' Party. What we want here is for the Government to put this at the disposal of the Ministry of Justice, not necessarily for the Ministry of Defence to put this at the disposal of the Ministry of Justice. I have been told that the Workers' Party is still running some follow-up fights in connection with the Santa Claus issue. Then it seems strange to me that a party that is engaged in ownership of something does not want the Ministry of Justice – no matter what the facility is intended to be used for – to be the owner, but only to have several years’ lease. If this is very consistent, I'm also somewhat uncertain about it. We still believe that there is scope for a comprehensive and good solution, both educational, training and accommodation. I'm taking up our suggestions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e503	André Kukkestad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e506	As my reply to the Justice Committee of 29 May 2002 shows, the Department has plans for the long-term exploitation of the Air Force School Centre in Stavern. The Ministry has already leased the facility for one year, from 1 August this year, as a training centre. I have noticed that the proposers highlight that the co-location of training activities will provide operational benefits. The Ministry makes an ongoing assessment of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of police resource use. In the assessments of the acquisition of the school centre in Stavern, these considerations have just been important, where, from a holistic perspective, I aim to ensure that the centre of Stavern in the future will not only be an offer within the police training needs, but for the justice sector as a whole. In my opinion, the school reader's design and capacity make it suitable for several purposes in the justice sector in the police case. It is also relevant to provide the facility for different courses and conferences where participants otherwise have to be placed at hotels. Stallars and surrounding areas of practice will also be assessed with regard to the possibilities for interoperability in the field of social security. The government has otherwise announced in St.meld. No 17 for 2001–02, it may be appropriate to close one or two of the schools of civil protection. The objective of a gradual transfer of the training and training activities to Stavern requires a review of the training and follow-up training provision in the police, in conjunction with the assessments made by the department as a whole for the future use of the school centre in Stavern. The police directorate and the police high school have been asked to assess whether further training courses in the direction of the Police high school can be submitted to Stavern. Before this review has been carried out, and a final position has been taken on a long-term rental, I assume that the activity in North Odal and Kongswinger continues. However, I consider it appropriate that the planned construction process for the Nord-Odal plant be suspended pending the police review and final position of the Ministry of Spring 2003 with a view to the long-term rental of the school centre in Stavern. Training of the police reserve will be added to Stavern from the autumn of 2002. For the ministry, the objective of establishing a training centre for the justice sector has not been to consider a major co-location of the overall training activities of the Police College. In this case, I have prioritised implementation with a view to a relatively rapid transfer of exercises and training activities that will bring benefits to the justice sector. I am otherwise glad that the committee together supports the Ministry of Justice taking over the school and practice facility in Stavern.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e519	Here, there has been some in-house wonder in the Justice Committee, I understand, why this proposal was promoted. I am also somewhat surprised that such a big case is being promoted in such a way, without it being submitted to the police's management, without the police high school being involved. And as a heathmark, I have to say that we believe that the facilities both in the North Odal and not least in Sets in Kongsvinger are useful and useful. I hope, at least, that with the efforts now being made in the justice sector in this area of the country, it should also be right and important to maintain the activity of police training here. And why make a move for the move? When the Stavern plant, this school centre, is so attractive and can have such a wide range of possibilities, it must be possible to make good use of it in a proper and good way without the closure of the facilities located in the North Odal and Kongswinger. I also find it a little regrettable that the construction plans for the Nord-Odal plant are now being pushed into the dark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e526	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e529	When I take the floor again, it is precisely on the basis of the suggestion from the representative, Mr Kukkestad, of an insidious government, that is not really about that issue. But it's actually about a government playing so openly that it briefs the parties in the Justice Committee on some plans and thoughts that it has, and asks for feedback on this. Quite right: the contract was signed on 26 April. However, long before that time, even before 11 April, when the Progress Party submitted its proposal, these questions had been discussed – and discussions have taken place on the takeover of the Stavern plant. I do not need any further comments except that from my side this was a response to the clear and somewhat sarcastic statement by Mr Ellingsen that the other parties in Stortinget, in the Committee on Justice, were wanted, after. It may be that it's not about wanting to welcome someone after, but about saying, we've been briefing each other on this. We've been working on this together. Then it could rather be about expressing that here we have a common desire to make good use of a plant that is useful to many and much.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e536	I think this debate has taken a strange turn. When it is proposed to add Police College to Stavern, it is honest and sincere, among other things. from the moment the installation is to be closed. It's the last coal of command school students to go down there now. And as the representative Kukkestad said, the facility is completely up-to-date, it's modernized, it's put a lot of money there. The proposers have considered that this plant should be used for something that was useful. On that occasion, we contacted the management of the Police College and, as mentioned, Arne Johannessen, head of the Police Union. He was present down there and expressed that the place is suitable as a hand in gloves for the Police College. The locations are up to two dates, there are data facilities, there are housing units, there are opportunities to operate, for example. training in underwater search, there are shooting paths — there is at all as much as the police want. Everything was there, as Arne Johannessen expressed it. It was sincerely intended from our side that this could be used for something more than just being closed down, possibly sold to other activities for which it is absolutely not suitable. That being said, one must also point out that the location of the Police College today – it is divided into three places – is not appropriate. It's not socio-economic at all. This proposal will provide a socio-economic benefit that I think should be considered. We have asked that the Minister of Justice assess this against his own proposal, and I do not see that being done to any great extent. The socio-economic I can't see lies at the root of this. And what about, for example, job creation? Stavern is a little center. Now that the defence school activity is shut down there, a lot of jobs are gone. What about that, and what about the Minister of Justice's proposal regarding the activity there? Will it be socio-economic? Will it give jobs, and will it give the activity and the advantage that it will be to have a police high school there?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e553	I am still a little surprised when you try to present it so that the problem is that you have a government that is open and that therefore has conversations. And because we've had a conversation with a government council, all of a sudden our internal proposal processes are going to stop. There may also be a difference between how the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party view this matter. For the Progress Party, the point in itself is not to find anything to fill any premises, find some activities that you can put into other empty premises. You want to solve a problem here at the Police College, and then you get some locations that fit as a hand in hand for this. And so it's like the government parties want you to have a directorate for fire and explosion protection or something like that, and possibly have some training activity – I don't know what they're planning to have there. What's clear, at least, is that we want a specific activity, that's the police high school, and we've said that we want to move, co-locate. Then it is also beneficial that the training facilities of the police are as closely connected as possible to the educational facilities of the Police College as possible. It may well be that the Progress Party can make independent assessments and decisions, without having been proposed in advance by bureaucrats in the departments! I would also like to distance myself from the fact that proposals that have not been promoted by the departments are to be seen as poorly worked out and poorly prepared. How the Christian People's Party prepared its affairs as they did not put in government, I do not know, but at least I can guarantee that we have had the treatment we seem necessary. It includes, of course, the necessary group treatment, the collection of information and, in fact, cooperation and the gathering of information on what the Police Joint Association believes in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e564	Only an additional information and information to the Government Parties and the representative of the Government: There has sometimes been some media speculation about the relationship between the Progress Party and the Government, and the Progress Party and the Government Parties, after last autumn we helped the current government get in place. It's getting a little bit acidified, it's a little bit harder. This case is one of the reasons. The SEFO case, which this committee had, is one of the reasons. The lack of ability to make decisions and to have conclusions has become more and more evident from the Government and government parties. It soon begins to get so that I want to baptize the ‘Evaluation Administration’. In St. Report. No 17 Is It to Be Reviewed and Reviewed! There are no conclusions! Now you have to consider everything that is strange to Stavern other than what is contained in the concrete proposal that the Progress Party has made. If you read the letter from the Ministry of Justice, dated 29 May, printed in the ballot box, the Department is not trying at all to get into the proposal that the Advance Party has promoted and which is not from the Department, which a representative seemed to believe. It comes from our own and from contacts locally. We're going to have to ask for that kind of insinuation, and we're also going to have to ask that the government try to secure prior approval of the Stortinget by sneaking into the comitats or at the coffee cups. If the government has the attitude that it should try it, it should end with what some state law professors have also said. At least that's not where we get our ideas. I have tried to read the letter and can't see that you've gone through the argument why the Police College would fit in Stavern as a hand in gloves, as others say, as well as solve some problems both there and in the Oslo area. We talk about all the other theoretical plans, and because you have other theoretical plans that are no different from theory, it is written: for the ministry, in the light of the above-mentioned objectives, it has not been relevant to consider a major co-location of the overall training activities of the Police College. It is that attitude of the Government's offices and state councils, and of the government parties, which mourns the existence of life. SEFO could have voted in favour of the parties to the Government. It was a principle that you flag otherwise. And it shouldn't surprise me about the government parties after Dørum has been out in the newspapers with huge headlines about 30 years in prison, yet it will vote against what is set up as case no. 17 on the agenda today. You must not then come to the Progress Party in other contexts and complain when you continue it from above and down the agenda and neglect our proposals, as you see in some of the cases of the Justice Committee. This is information to the government parties and the government councils that may be relayed back to the government college when one does not understand part of what is now happening in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e579	I honestly think it's something you can take to the back, bilaterally, and something I don't actually think it's necessary to pull into this room – so that this meeting takes even longer. Having said that, I understand that the Progress Party is angry with the Government because it is promoting its proposal for 30 years of imprisonment after it has rejected the proposals of the Progress Party. That seems to me to be an inexorable procedure. But there is a reason why SV in this room has supported some of the proposals that are being considered, because it may be beneficial to see the consequences of the proposals that we are making, and I feel at least responsible for the fact that those consequences are to be properly elucidated. This applies, for example: The SEFO scheme. We agreed with the Progress Party in the criticism they made, but we thought it was a point that this should be properly assessed. The same applies to the proposal for the transfer of Police College to Stavern. I've been in contact with those who work at the Police College. They feel neglected in that process. They want to be part of that process, and I understand that, because it's actually their jobs. I think we have to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e588	I'm basically trying to avoid polemics, and I'm going to do that here. The representative Hagen took up a number of issues. When we have promoted the proposal for a 30-year prison sentence, it has happened in a consultation context. I believe that important and important proposals, including: on the criminal law side, should be consulted. It is quite right that the Progress Party has promoted a specific single proposal, which is perfectly legitimate and right to do so, but the Government and the undersigned have then chosen to put it into a hearing. I have also said in Stortinget before this was up to date, in a timely context, that I would just consider doing so. In the case of the SEFO scheme, to which the representative Hagen refers, it has been sent to the hearing. It is also stated in a response to Hagen in connection with the formation of the Government that different alternatives will be considered in the hearing. When that hearing is going on, it is quite obvious from my point of view that it must be completed. The party of progress has expressed powerful views, and of course they are known and marked for the Government. With regard to the case today, it has been tried in such a way that it has tried to find practical activities which in any case would be reasonable and useful to have in Stavern in order not to lose this facility, while at the same time there is a matter for consideration in the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee which is on the Vulnerability Communication. The representative Hagen is quite right that when someone provides information, one must not mix it with asking for prior approval. But it might be wise to do that, so you know about each other. I'm trying to practice it as best I can, but I don't take it as an consent. I don't want to operate like this either, unless someone wants to give me an idea of it. And if someone gives me an idea of it, I'm also going to deal with it so discreetly that it doesn't come out in a way that gives out any relationships. Of course, it's absolutely right that what happens informally in the Storing is not equal to the formal and correct thing that we have to assume. Of course, we can't work like that. So I hear the post, but I have to insist that the way I work, I have to try to make up my mind and conscience, like other parties have to do. This has led to the fact that the government parties and the Progress Party have been united in a number of cases. In some cases we have disagreed, and in other cases we are in an investigation that can lead us together, but may not be able to do so. But we are responsible for carrying out the investigations that we are responsible for, and of course we would be criticized for that if we hadn't done so. I do not want to stand for a demeaning attitude; it was not an attitude that was intended on my part in the opinion to which the representative Hagen refers. I must take note that this is how he experiences it. From my side, this was just to make it clear that we will not let the valuable Stavern plant be lost, but ensure reasonable activity for one year, from 1 August 2002 on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e601	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3407]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e616	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e623	As rapporteur, I would like to give a brief brief information on the content of Document No. The 8-proposal by Jan Arild Ellingsen and André Kvakkestad on the introduction of water cannon, telescopic baton and pepper spray into police weapons instructions. There are three proposals for decisions: Proposal I is about facilitating the use of water cannon as a legal instrument for the police in the fight against violent demonstrations or riots. Proposal II is about acquiring water cannons for possible use in Oslo in connection with possible demonstrations for the week concerning the World Bank's ABCDE conference. And finally, proposal III, to assign operational police officers telescopic baton and pepper spray as part of standard equipment in the fight against criminals. The main reason for the proposal is that the Norwegian authorities are to host the World Bank Conference to be held in Oslo this week. The proposers say: «In the light of the particularly violent riots that have occurred when the World Bank has held its conferences in the past, a calculation must be made that this can also be done in Oslo». As a representative of the Right, I would like to stress that the police need different instruments in the context of the general fight against crime, and in particular in order to deal with violent demonstrations. The scale and brutality of crime are becoming increasingly rawer and more speculated. At the same time, it is important to ensure the safety of police officers and the public in a satisfactory manner. Telescopic baton has been established and will be acquired for use in all police districts during the year. The Norwegian police do not carry weapons and should not normally do so. For this reason, it is important that the police have tools to provide police officers with greater security in difficult situations. It is also under the planning of a test project by the Directorate of Police on the introduction of pepper spray as a police operational tool. The right is very pleased with the introduction of new instruments to ensure the security of police officers and the public, and will underline the importance of the fact that available instruments are only an adaptation to the current crime scene. The working party and SV are very skeptical and are thus opponents both of the use of telescopic baton and pepper spray. However, I am very confident that the police will receive necessary and thorough training in the use of these effective instruments. If Oslo were to experience riots in connection with the World Bank Conference this week, the police, in my opinion, have strong instruments to dampen any riots using both pepper spray and telescopic baton. In addition, I would like to commend the police for having taken previous signals from the Storting that the ability to control demonstrations or any riots is best achieved by nine-time monitoring of any eventualities that may arise. We have seen good examples of this in the media over the past few days, for example. the police conduct training at Fornebu, police cooperate with the municipality on accommodation and trading venues on opening hours, police on border control and surveillance, and police on Schengen cooperation on the basis of the intentions set out in the agreement. Thorough pre-working is the best way to get and control turmoil and mass demonstrations. Right does not want to introduce the use of water cannon into police weapons instructions. I share the opinion of the proposers that the demonstrator, when using water cannon, is likely to be ‘wet-through, cooled down’, and thus probably ‘very motivated’ to escape the disturbance. However, the need for water cannons is not very great. There have been major international events in Oslo in the past without the police losing control of large crowds in public space. I would like to mention the events around the annual peace prize distribution, and in particular the 2001 Peace Prize anniversary with many of the world's top leaders present. The introduction of powerful physical instruments such as water cannon into police weapons instructions could weaken police efforts to prevent unrest around demonstrations. As previously said, the police's ability to control large demonstrations is often more dependent on the measures taken by the police prior to the suspected demonstrations than purely fire-fighting manoeuvres during the demonstrations. Strong instruments shall not be sleeping cushions for the prevention of crime, but shall be a means of deportation designed to make the police effective and expeditious in their work. It can also be mentioned that television images broadcast around the world using water cannons in Oslo streets give the outside world associations to entirely different types of political regimes than Norway deserves. Finally, Norway would have been the first country in the Nordic region to introduce such instruments. In fact, it is more than the Progress Party, especially the government parties, who are concerned, of course, about the increasing violence and crime and its severity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e654	In the media picture, one now sees a police force preparing for the World Bank meeting in Oslo. It doesn't seem like what they're preparing for is a normal traffic diversion of an ordinary demonstration train. One sees that it is important in this context that the police have at their disposal the tools that may be necessary, if we are to be repeated by, for example, the police. The Göteborg riots or the like. Of course, I share the view that it would be best if, during the World Bank meeting, we could have a peaceful and calm marking of the different political views. But it does not prevent us from being prepared for the worst to happen. It is in this context and in the context of Norway’s constant involvement in hosting functions for both this and the hint that a person wants to look at the possibility of using telescopic, pepper and water cannons. It is perhaps as good to be able to spread violent and insurgent demonstrators with water as to go in direct confrontation with dogs and cows in the context of the water cannon question – at least from the point of view of the Progress Party. So you want to open up the possibilities of using the necessary tools, not necessarily requiring them to be used. I find it interesting that the representative Dybevig believes that the distribution of the Nobel Peace Prize is to be seen as comparable to this meeting at the World Bank. I am somewhat uncertain about violent demonstrators to the same extent traveling around the world to demonstrate against peace prizes. This seems to be a totally illogical comparison. The majority also point out that ‘television images broadcast around the world using water cannons in Oslo streets give the outside world associations to entirely different types of political regimes than Norway deserves’. So the question is not to protect life and property in Oslo streets, the question is how to be perceived when you might go around meetings internationally later. It seems to me to be a strange priority. When it comes to the question of pepperspray and telescopic baton, we want it to be standard equipment. In this context, I note with some wonder the letter that came from the Council of State on 27 May. The last sentence is: ‘In the light of allegations that the use of pepper spray may cause serious health damage, my department has requested the necessary investigations to be carried out in this respect.’ All the time now it is announced that pepper spray can be used next week, I assume that these thorough studies of a stranger nature have been carried out, and that the Council of State can inform us of the result. It also states that you are in favour of a ‘limited test project where pepper spray can be authorised’. Is it, then, to understand that the World Bank meeting is a trial project? At least then it must be considered as a full-scale test project. It seems to me that the most important thing in this case is not to be able to vote for proposals that the Progress Party has promoted. Of course, the representatives should be allowed to do that, but if it seems very consistent and creates the great confidence of politicians in the Stortinget, I am very uncertain about it. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e683	The representative of Kampestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e686	Unlike the representative Kukkestad and probably most of the party he represents, I have been a demonstrator up to several times and in that way also have a certain interest in this being done in a calm, proper way. Then I think, and then also the Workers' Party, that there's a point to try to calm down what's happening. There have now been a good number of programmes from the summit that took place in Gothenburg. What these programs have shown is that if there is something important in front of such meetings, it is not to have sharp shots, weapons, water cannons or that kind of thing, but it is to prepare, it is to take the realities that exist, and not stand up like a shield and be almost the paralytic or to take all and thus provoke further violence, it is to cooperate with those of the demonstrators who have laid down on a nonviolent line, and not lose their heads. Last night, I saw a program from Gothenburg that was about what the auditorate did and did not do in that context. These include: came out, was that many policemen didn't even know why they had the actions they were doing, and almost deserted at the end. What we also saw were policemen who got into the crowd of demonstrators with sharp shots, something like that. Made President Jaques Chirac shake his head. He didn't think that was possible in a democracy. In the Middle East, at least until recently, there were rubber bullets and no sharp shots. SV and the Workers' Party are concerned about this with telescopic batons as well. I'll do one example. If a bunch of demonstrators approach the police and they in front can't stop because there's someone pushing from behind, what should the police do with these batons? Are they going to split up on the ones standing in front, and hope that it's all right? These are batons that have a metal ball at the end, and that can therefore be very dangerous. In the case of pepper spray, the representative Kukkestad had a point in relation to whether or not the ministry has really assessed this. Now there was a post from the representative Hagen instead that the government should stop considering this much. I can be inclined to agree in some fields where the same case has already been assessed up to several times. But here I am interested to know if the government has assessed the possible damage to pepper spray, as one is so interested in introducing this as a standard tool for the police. We expect and assume that the Directorate of Police and the Department jointly ensure that those who are going to use tools that can be very damaging to demonstrators and others are adequately trained to use them. But then there's another point. You can be very well trained, you can have gone through a lot of training programs, but if you get pressure first, if you get scared first, if you lose your head, it's a point to try to prevent you from having access to tools that can do a lot of damage to other people, sail if that's not the point. We can all do things that we really didn't think about, just because we just got saved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e697	The police's weapons instructions are subject to periodic assessments. The World Bank Research Conference in a few days is not the only basis for these assessments. We recognise that previous conferences have created challenges for the respective national authorities, but it has usually been in the context of a different structure than a research conference which is not to issue a document with conclusions. The Christian People's Party believes it is important for Norway to meet any challenges with the means available to us and accepted by the public for the use of the police. Therefore, the use of water cannons does not consider the Christian People's Party to be a necessary and locally appropriate means of limiting riots in Norway. It is also worth noting that none of the Nordic countries have chosen to introduce water cannon use for similar purposes. A selection to look at police security delivered its position to the police director earlier in the year. The main conclusion was that unarmed police remain in Norway, but they proposed some measures to improve the security of police officers. The proposal by the representatives of Ellingsen and Kvakkestad therefore does not point to a new issue in the police. Better training and training in both situation monitoring and weapons use are important immediate measures to improve the security of officials in situations requiring armaments. The committee also proposes to equip the officials with pepper spray, so that they have no means of armament or armament. The pepper spray question is already under investigation in the directorate. In order to ensure better for car officials, the committee proposes to lighten up a certain number of service cars. The selection has also discussed improvements in the choice of weapons types, ammunition, communications and ICT. It has also discussed whether the criminal provisions for violence against the police and the follow-up of such cases by the police and the prosecution authority are good enough. The use of pepper spray is introduced as a test scheme. Whether or not this should have progressed in car storage needs to be carefully considered. It is important that guidelines are developed centrally for the use of new instruments. If two equal police districts have the same basis, it will be difficult if one police officer opens up for further detention and the other, with the same criminal base, does not provide the opportunity. Adequate training will be essential for the value of using new instruments. This also applies to the introduction of a telescopic baton. The training carried out by the police, including: in a provisional facility on Fornebu, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, will have a greater impact on the outcome of any confrontation than the choice of specific instruments. Knowing what to do, and having trained for it in advance, will give the police the best preparation for the situation until the week comes. The most effective means of action will be to prevent potential troublemakers from reaching Oslo. This is why the Police Directorate’s introduction of temporary border controls across the national border is an appropriate measure. Close cooperation with the police in Sweden and Denmark will also have an impact in this context. Finally, I would like to join those who claim that the most important thing for the police is not to shut down, but to prevent it from being necessary to intervene. It is important that the police act in such a way that it is not perceived as a provocation. I have the confidence in the Norwegian police that they will not contribute to such provocations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e725	The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Police Directorate, has an ongoing assessment of police methods, including the need for various weapons and instruments to solve so-called sharp missions. Let me stress that the assessments here need to address both societal developments and the development of new appropriate instruments, i.e. instruments suitable for the task, while minimising the risk of external congestion. Last but not least, the protection of the policemen standing in the middle of the room to solve difficult police tasks shall be taken into account. Not later than one year ago, a working group presented a position to the Directorate of Police with proposals for the introduction of various new instruments. One of the proposals was the introduction of a so-called telescopic baton, which has been decided upon, and it will be acquired in the current year for all police districts and service locations in Norway. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice has decided to carry out a test project for the use of pepper spray. The Directorate of Police, in cooperation with, inter alia: Finland and Sweden, are undergoing experience with the use. There is nothing to suggest that the claims made by different teams on health damage are sustainable. However, the Police Directorate will follow closely and continuously assess the available experience material. The use of water cannon has been evaluated. To date, however, it has not been relevant to use this tool in the Norwegian police force. Norway is also in line with other countries in the Nordic region. I'm going to follow developments with regard to violent demonstrations carefully, among other things. to assess the instruments under way by the Norwegian police to deal with current situations. In this context, I also see it as very important to look at experiences from other countries. In particular, during the year there will be a report from a sample in Sweden that will now review and evaluate the experiences of the events in Gothenburg in the summer of 2001. After the circumstances, I assume that this could also have transfer value to Norwegian conditions. This debate has also raised issues that were raised in a debate earlier today, which affect the scientific conference to be held in Oslo, and the position of the police has been requested. The police themselves have said that it is based on safeguarding and protecting the activities of peaceful demonstrators and has an active dialogue with the umbrella group called ‘Oslo 2002’. At the same time, the police have an obligation to be prepared for any situation in which individuals feel differently about provoking the police. Of course, the police are aware that such a situation may exist, and will consider it very carefully. Police are responsible both for monitoring and orderlyness in the situation and for ensuring peaceful conduct of demonstrations. It is quite right, as many have said, that in order to be prepared for such a situation, it is important to have intelligence cooperation to possibly meet those early who might be likely to act like that, and then have a police tactical approach to deal with the situation. I find no reason to go further than to note what Commissioner Gengedal has said a number of times publicly in Oslo, namely a good dialogue with the umbrella organisation ‘Oslo 2002’ and the willingness to have dialogue with others, of which not everyone has accepted the dialogue. However, the police have repeatedly invited the various groups to seek cooperation. Of course, the police will use their own experiences, and they will be trained to meet different situations. I see it as an advantage that they're trained. I assume that the main task of the police is to ensure freedom of expression and the many who will use this. But it is also up to the police to control if situations arise where individuals see it as their task to act in such a way that violence is an instrument. It would be a lack of service on the part of the police if you weren't prepared for such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e751	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e754	Document No The eight proposals that are here today are quite topical. There is an important debate all the time on how the police can balance legal security and prevent abuse, but also on the fact that we have systems that prevent abuse from happening elsewhere. Everyone agrees that freedom of expression is one of the most important liberal rights we have. It is important that the police also have the task of caring for it. On Monday, Oslo faces a major challenge. I have great faith that the Oslo Police are able to meet that challenge in a good way. We have a pretty good 'rating' on how Norwegian police deal with such situations in relation to other international police. I also think I agree with previous speakers that training is better than weapons, and you know a little about what's coming. The only demonstration that has gone a little different than expected was the hash demonstration where you weren't prepared for what was coming. What's my point is that today's youth participates a lot more than before. In the last NOVA report, on young engagement, researcher Guri Ødegård has proved that today's youth participates much more than before, but they participate in other ways. Demonstrations include: one of the forms of expression for young people today. Then it's important to have a positive experience of how society accepts the opinion, and also to have a positive experience that this is a way of expressing one's opinions. I am a child of the 1980s – I have admitted that in a previous debate today – and then I know how important the role of the police in this area is. Because I remember that in the 1980s there were almost street battles between Blitz, the Progress Party and the police, while I, who studied in Trondheim, experienced that the police arranged football between the UFFA House and the Youth of Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e768	In fact, it is more than the Progress Party, and especially the government parties, who are concerned about increasing gross violence and crime, and especially about the severity of crime. During the World Bank’s meeting in Gothenburg, there was an expansion of street fighting – that’s right. The same has been true of similar events elsewhere in Europe and in the United States. But I don't want to shoot street fights in Oslo like the Advance Party. The fact that Sweden experienced regular street matches does not mean that Norway will do the same. In Sweden, the handling of these demonstrations by the authorities has, before, during and after, been highlighted. It's right that you have to be well prepared. The possible aggression of the demonstrators is staggered no more effectively by water cannons than by good police work, including training, control — like border control and surveillance — and, of course, an overview of the details of the masses. Water cannons are a little flexible, which the demonstrators actually are -- they're very flexible. It's summer and hot, I don't need to mention any more to make the outside world understand that the shelters of the elements are actually weather- and temperature-dependent using water cannons. The Kukkkestad claim that the anniversary of the Peace Prize and the annual peace award ceremony were not major events compared to the event that will be the three days of the week. During the anniversary of the Peace Prize, the world’s top leaders were actually present – both Clinton and Putin were present. There were also attempts at demonstrations, but the police's effective handling prior to the event did not give you the large demonstrations you expected. I would also like to mention the peace award ceremony when Arafat, Peres and Rabin received the peace prize. Then it was also a good preparation from the police. We had something similar when Start and Sadat got the peace prize even earlier. It was said here by Kukkestad that we do not agree with the Progress Party. We agree. The government parties agree. We are trailers of the use of pepper spray and telescopic batons. We don't disagree with that, so I want to say that it's a sense of reality that's a little wrong. The parties which actually disagree should be attacked, and that is the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. They don't want any of these measures, either water cannons, telescopic batons or pepper spray. We have said that pepper spray and telescopic batons are good and effective instruments in connection with the conference to be held in Oslo this week. So later on, you'll tell us if it was right or wrong. We have a great deal of faith that this is being processed and the planning the police are doing, also, of course, of great importance for the control they have over that event.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e781	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3408]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e798	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3408]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e815	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3408]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e832	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3408]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e849	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e866	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e884	The Progress Party will support the proposal when it comes to voting, but with a different reason than the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have in the vote. For the Progress Party, this is a matter of fundamental legal certainty for all who are being visited, and thus a need to be able to demonstrate this in a purely evidenced manner if problems arise in relation to whether or not a visit has taken place. The date of the inspection, the time, the place and the service number may hardly be so time consuming as to provide that this would lead to some particular extra time. In this way, we want to get suggestions on this to Stortinget. Then, of course, we will come back to the specific reading when the proposals are promoted, but we are now going to support the proposal in order to bring this forward to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e891	I was really just going to make a left hand explanation, but after the Quakstad post, it might be a little bit informative for others as well. We in the Left have a great sense of intention behind the proposal. It is clear that, for example, this is the case. are very many immigrant youth here in the city who sometimes feel a little messed up about being stopped and controlled. I know a lot of people who have experienced it. But right now, the police have put in place an action plan against racism that I have great faith in, and which I believe can be implemented. So that's our attitude in that particular area. With regard to the proposal on the receipt scheme itself, I am critical that the only and best solution is a receipt scheme. What is now being tried out in a number of other countries is a protocol system, which allows for the same legal certainty unless red tape is guaranteed. This means that you do not get a receipt on site, but you can get a printout of protocols that police officers run on site, for example. in case of a search. Then you'll be able to achieve the same thing as you do with a receipt scheme. But the most important thing I see is that we get an action plan that works, and I am very happy that the Minister of Justice has started. I hope that we can also see other ways of ensuring legal certainty than just this receipt system, which we have not seen working anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e900	In the past, I have said that we want to turn this into a transmission proposal. We don't want to do that anymore. Now we're awfully happy. I must say that I think this is a very fine day! Thank you very much to the representatives of the Progress Party. This I think is very nice. This is about fundamental principles of legal certainty. It's about the possibility of investigating whether the police go specifically to specific groups on the basis of prejudices that you might have, which you don't necessarily have on purpose, or whether we can determine on the contrary that this doesn't happen. But it's important to get this in place, so we have the ability to verify it afterwards. I think that's great.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e907	Several have not asked for the word. The President shall seek to organise the vote later this evening in such a way that the wishes expressed here are met. [[See page 3409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e924	This setting was for treatment last week, i.e. on Wednesday, and in that context there were no strong signals from the government parties that this was a proposal they were excited about or had some big plans to consider in particular. Then, in particular, the surprise was great, although it was joyful, when the Council of State two days after dealing with the matter went out and wanted to put this matter to the hearing, as he said. But this is not just a matter of whether the Council of State wants to put this to consultation, because the Council of State in fact argued well and to some extent much in this context that the proposal to increase the penalties from 21 to 30 years as a maximum penalty was a good proposal that should more or less automatically be adopted. When, in this way, the Government has not only automatically added something to the hearing, but also argued that the hearing bodies should be positive in this way – argued that due to the 2/3 rule, etc. and, in particular, the issue of the most serious crimes of violence and morality, 30 years of imprisonment should be absolutely introduced – I hope that the government parties this time will be able to vote for a principle which the Council of State has promulgated on a fairly positive basis in the media. Because it would probably be strange about the same parties that enthusiastically sent this out to the hearing, now suddenly chooses to vote against. But, to put it that way, it's probably something that we in the Progress Party have become used to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e929	It's hardly the word enthusiasm that's comprehensive when you're talking about raising penalties from what's now been the highest sentence in the law, 21 years, to 30 years. It is probably with a certain sadness that you have to be aware that in a new era we may need instruments of this kind. Now the representative Hagen has said earlier this evening that instead of using the name of the cooperative government, he could think of calling it the assessment government. Despite that, I think it is right that when you make such drastic changes, or if you are going to make such drastic changes as increasing the maximum penalty from 21 to 30 years, it is necessary to have carefully assessed this in advance. That is why, as the Christian People's Party believes, it is right that this matter has been sent to the hearing, and that it is then possible to decide afterwards on the basis of the assessments made, on the one hand and on the other. It is also that we should not vote against something that we might later see it may be necessary to go in for. That is why it would have been a good idea, if we had such proposals that we had been sent from Odelstinget to Stortinget, to turn them into a transmission proposal, so we did not vote against them. But I don't know if it's possible. If you do, we in the Christian People's Party would at least think it was an advantage. If you do not turn it into a transmission proposal, we will have to – I do not know if it is a good expression, but at least – vote against both this proposal in case No. 17 and the subsequent proposal, in substance. 21, which mentions something of the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e938	Until the time when the Storting will vote, it is, of course, possible to re-apply those proposals, if the proposers so wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e941	Let me first say that it's not entirely certain that I agree with the last president in any case. We are not going to get to that debate. This I think is fantastic. The husband of double communication to which the government parties are now adding is to look for a long time. I shall read the text of the proposal: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary proposals to increase the penalties for the most serious criminal offences in the penal code from 21 years in prison to 30 years in prison.’ Then I will read from an article in the evening post on 15 June, three days after this proposal was made in Odelstinget. ‘It is a sign of the time when Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum proposes to increase the penalties for the most serious crimes from a maximum of 21 to 30 years.’ In the argument outside this room, Finn Kristian Marthinsen has not been able to come to a conclusion that this is an assessment and that it should be carefully assessed whether to go from 21 to 30 years of prison. That's not what you've argued for outside this house. No, it is a concrete proposal. The government's position and conclusion is that, as I read from the Evening Post, you want to increase the penalties for the most serious crimes from a maximum of 21 to 30 years. That's what's communicated. I also agree that in some contexts it is very sensible to send things out to the hearing, but that is when you have not reached a conclusion yourself. When you actually have the attitude when someone has suggested something, when someone has aired some thoughts, that before you decide whether those thoughts are reasonable, you want to get the input from different instances, it becomes a hearing. Then one will go through the results of the consultation and then draw the conclusion. But here the government and Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum have marketed the conclusion. That is probably also why we sometimes meet in political parties, and we have programme discussions, and we have national meetings, and we make decisions. When we have taken a decision at a national meeting, there can be no need to ask anyone else at the moment. Then the top organ of the lot has decided. So here you've been communicating to the voters. Finn Kristian Marthinsen tried instead of saying that we had cooked up some ideas, or about stole some ideas, because the Minister of Justice had apparently been quiet and calm in the committee and talked to some people. So it wasn't right in that case. Then I would like to ask what Finn Kristian Marthinsen would say to the Minister of Justice, who, on 12 June, is attending a debate in Odelstinget on these matters, a debate in which proposals to raise the penalty framework from 21 years of imprisonment to 30 years of imprisonment are an essential topic. There are concrete proposals. The Minister of Justice does not say one word, as far as I have at least understood, at Odelstingen's meeting that yes, this was something the Government was working on. In that case, I'm withdrawing what I just said. But then it's great to get such a big look in the evening post two days later, if he said so, exactly the same, in the meeting of Odelsting. In this way, I believe that when, as Minister of Justice, one is interviewed about something known to the Party of Advancement or another party has made proposals about two days earlier, and is being treated in the Grand Duchy, and lets it come through a story in the evening post, without mentioning that this has been taken up and is being dealt with, in fact also in the Grand Duchy, because another party has suggested it, it has something to do with honesty. And I've otherwise learned Odd Einar Dørum to feel like a very honest person. But it is possible that the journalist refused to include a reference, that in the history of this proposal the journalist refused to accept that this was something the Progress Party had proposed and that was pending. There wouldn't be any difference between the Evening Post when it comes to referring to actual conditions, which they cut and glue so that it doesn't have to come out beneficial to the Progress Party at any time. But it would be interesting to know. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: is it such that the Minister of Justice has concluded, as the newspapers have written, by raising the penalties for the most serious crimes from a maximum of 21 to 30 years, or is it such that this is a thought in which neither he nor the Government will conclude before a number of different bodies and other people have expressed their views on it? Would it not be reasonable, then, if the Minister of Justice had made it quite clear to the people that it is actually wrong when they go around and think that he wants to raise the penalties, it is just a thought that is at the hearing and that the Minister of Justice really does not support? If he supports what is public, if he wants such an increase, would it not be natural for the Council of State to recommend the parties of government to vote in favour of the proposal which has been promoted and which is being discussed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e964	It was a series of debates on punishment and terrorism legislation on 12 June. In one of the contexts, I think it was in the context of proposals by the representative Simonsen, it is in response to the proposal of the representative Simonsen that the Government will assess the tightening up of penalties in a number of areas. I said in another debate on penalties – now I don't remember in the hurry which, although I normally remember well – that I didn't think the penalties were high enough when it came to serious crimes, I think, among other things. That I mentioned terror. So it was said by my side. It is also true that when I send out something at the hearing, there is a strong signal that something should be sent to the hearing. But when you send something to the hearing, it's for the hearing to be real, so that those who are going to be allowed to express themselves will get the chance to do so. This is a position that I have commented on earlier today, when the representative Hagen addressed this together with a number of other issues. Of course, that's a position I'm still standing on. I have selected values, but I also want the hearing to be real. I want there to be a debate on these issues, and that is why it has also been sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e971	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[See page 3409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e988	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1005	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1022	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1039	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1056	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1073	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1090	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1106	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1122	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the representative Jan Simonsen will have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1135	The announcement of new teacher training, which Stortinget is about to deal with, bears the very important sub-title: Mangfold – demanding – relevant. With this in mind, the Ministry has already set a standard and a goal for the new teacher training which is reasonably ambitious. The Communication outlines the structure, organisation and content of teacher training in a new degree system. I already find initial reason to stress that the communication deals with all of our teacher training courses with their different peculiarities – pre-school teachers, general teachers, vocational teachers and teachers from our universities. It is also important to note that the changes that are now being made are part of the much-discussed reform of competence, where better teacher training is a key element in its follow-up. As rapporteur of the case, it is good to note that a broad majority of the Committee concludes on the main model of new teacher training. This means that the first two years of a general teacher’s education will be built up with compulsory subjects, 30 study credits, equivalent to six months of study, in mathematics, Norwegian and pedagogy, 20 study credits in Christian, religious and life views and 10 study credits in basic reading, writing and mathematics training. The following two years of general teacher training are available for the students’ own free choice of qualifications. It does not end up in the main model, but launches an alternative model of teacher training. I assume that the party's representatives will explain this in more detail. I also consider it appropriate to mention that the vast majority of the hearing bodies and stakeholders have given almost unreserved support to the current main model and, to a large extent, to the various detailed designs. A joint committee underlines the vital importance of the good teacher for the learning of students, and notes that one of the most important steps you can take to get to a better school is to secure teachers with both knowledge and a high level of competence. The majority of the Committee agrees with the vision that our future teacher training must be paramount in terms of knowledge and competence, where there is room for personal initiative and institutional freedom, an education that engages and motivates, which stimulates change and lifelong learning, which interacts closely with the stakeholders, and which appears to be the best education we can offer to young people – individually and in some very demanding visions. With the Committee's attitude and the decision taken today by the Stortinget, the basis for reaching these visions has been laid. Now it is up to our good teacher training environments to implement and implement the necessary measures and changes. The Committee notes in its position that it is necessary to make the quality of teacher training a positive factor in raising the status of the teaching profession, including: in the interests of recruitment, and in this context refers in particular to the need to increase the availability of lecturers in higher education. Some of the key elements of the new teacher training, as pointed out by a majority of the Committee, are that educational institutions are given greater freedom to design flexible and robust teacher training, greater freedom to choose a subject, better contact with working and business life, better lifelong learning needs to be taken into account, relevance and professional correction needs to be improved, and quality emphasis is also placed on quality. through practical R & D and a good working environment for students. The entire Committee notes that there is a great need to improve contact with the field of practice through increased use of hospitation and through R & D. This applies both to the students and to the professionals in the teacher training. In this context, I also find it necessary to mention the majority’s emphasis on the need to look at new forms of practice organisation, for example. through institutional agreements. Another aspect to which the Committee attaches importance in relation to the recruitment of good teachers is the use of flexible forms of learning, including ICT and various forms of decentralised education. The Committee also stresses the need to take specific measures to ensure the recruitment of good teachers in the field of real-time and linguistics and agrees that the Department must consider taking specific measures, such as: depreciation of study loans. In a few areas, there has been a certain discussion in the Committee and alternative solutions are emerging. In my view, this should be the case in a political assembly with different political emphasis. One point concerns the requirement of the principal. Here the majority, the government parties and the Progress Party have stressed that the management team at the schools in total must have adequate professional competence, pedagogical competence and leadership competence, and that the principal is part of the leadership team. The minority will retain the training law’s requirement for pedagogical competence in order to be appointed as principal. The second discussion theme of some size has been the scope of the CRL subject. Here a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, have chosen to enter the KRL as a compulsory subject for all general teacher students, with 20 study credits, without changing the main model of teacher training. This emphasis is made possible by incorporating 10 points of study into the value and cultural dissemination of the CRL subject, as well as the introduction of professional knowledge into the compulsory education of the pedagogics and into the practical training of the students. This will help to reduce the so-called ‘practice shock’ and will also respond to the Government’s proposals on emphasising this topic in the mandatory studies, albeit with a slightly different organisation. The Progress Party and SV have different proposals here, which I suppose they themselves will explain. In addition, there are some divergent comments and weightings, mainly from the Progress Party and from SV, to some extent supported by the Workers' Party. In the right, we are very happy that we are today able to adopt a new teacher training. From our point of view, school is primarily a place to learn, not a place to be. For too long we have developed in teacher training and in school a culture characterized by social activities and food instead of effort, quality and learning. For the Right, there is no contradiction between being able to work, making demands for effort and diligence, and being comfortable and having fun in school. Rather the opposite. Through professional mastering and knowledge, much more will succeed both in school life, in working life and in society for the rest. That's why it's also essential that we have a good teacher education that gives good and committed teachers who can master and master their important occupation. I think we're now getting a significantly better teacher education that emphasizes basic knowledge in Norwegian and mathematics, including initial training in literacy, writing and arithmetic, while at the same time giving students greater opportunity to choose professional immersion based on their own interest. I would also like to stress the need for professional immersion in order to be able to teach in the youth. This will now be up to the school owner to follow up. For us from the Right, it is also important to stress that the basics of teacher training are subjects. This applies in general teacher training, but in particular to teachers with professional depression from universities. I look forward to the government coming back to the Stortinget with proposals for various incentive schemes that can ensure good recruitment of teachers with heavy professional depression, especially to high school. In this context, it is also gratifying to record the broad upturn in government proposals for better cooperation between education and practice. After the Court’s assessment, the quality of the practical studies needs to be significantly improved. I think it's the scheme that is now being opened up, and with alternative forms of practice training and practice studies, just giving an opportunity for this improvement that we all want. At the same time, the Communication stresses that considerable emphasis should be placed on research-based education and on research and development activities in which students are also actively involved. For the Right, this is a very good education policy. Finally, as the rapporteur, I would like to thank an overall committee for good and constructive cooperation and believe that, with today's suspension and decision, we are laying the basis for a new and much better teacher training, based on individual interest and freedom of choice for the students, but at the same time ensuring that basic skills in the basic subjects of mathematics, Norwegian and pedagogy are present at all future teachers in our schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1186	The rapporteur stopped thanking the Committee for its work on this matter, and then I can start by thanking the rapporteur for the way he dealt with this matter in the Committee. In general, there is a high degree of agreement between the various parties during the course of future teacher training. I will not repeat the case rapporteur, but I will refer him to his presentation of the suspension. The size has today to deal with a matter that all the country's parents should be very concerned about. We all know how important teachers are to the development of our children both professionally and socially at school. The skilled teacher has the ability to encourage and to get the students to reach their very best. I have noticed that the Council of State believes it is a problem that students in Norwegian school think it is nice to go to school, according to a survey in VG on 16 June. For the rest of us, this is more positive than negative, and I don't think the Council of State has meant it that way either. The size has been involved several times in measures that can strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession, because we have been concerned about the development of the profession. I don't think we should want to go back to the time when the headmaster, the priest, or the lieutenant was the one who had something to say in the village. Fortunately, today we have a society that is at least somewhat more equal both in terms of classes and in terms of gender. But it is not surprising that the teaching profession has lost much of its status, and this has affected the recruitment of the profession. I would therefore like to remind you that it was the Stoltenberg government that helped to ensure an extraordinary wage development of approx. $50,000 for teachers over two years. The Committee has been broadly grouped in this setting. As I said, the rapporteur has presented this in a good way, and there is a broad consensus that we need greater freedom of choice for the students' choice of subjects. The majority of the Committee also emphasises the need to strengthen the practice of teacher training and the need to improve the guidance of newly trained teachers. The working party is concerned about the recruitment of real-time teachers and has therefore supported the Ministry for the establishment of a system for the write-off of student loans to make it more attractive for this group to start school. However, we have stressed that this must be a test scheme, because in this area we must also make sure that resources are used in the best possible way. The working party will not support the majority of the admission requirements for the general field of study to strengthen language subjects. We believe that the majority here are going back one step when they can thus help limit students' choices after primary school. The working party does not wish to contribute to a development in which the 9th graders have to decide whether to choose a general course of study in higher education. The Ministry announces a simplification of the regulations on competence, and the Workers' Party fully agrees. We have long talked about schools having to open up more to professionals than teachers, and then we naturally have to look at the competence code. We also see that it is time that many people who have worked in school for many years without an approved education should now be able to appreciate their real competence and be able to identify any need and offer for additional training. The Workers' Party was surprised that the Ministry proposed that pre-school teachers should no longer have the skills to teach in the first class without further training. When the Storting decided to start school for six-year-olds, the importance of pre-school education was very high. I am therefore very pleased that today we have a majority to change the ministry's proposal on this point. The Labour Party has supported a compromise on continuing the CRL subject as a compulsory subject. For us, it has been important to ensure that still qualified teachers in this important common subject. At the same time, it was also important not to extend the proportion of compulsory subjects in teacher training beyond the proposal of the Government. I think many of the changes we're making here today are a step in the right direction to enhance the quality of school. But we may not get away from the fact that we are now facing acute problems in the Norwegian school that the Council of State and the Government should address. I note that the Council of State today says that she is convinced that there is no link between resource use and school performance. What kind of standard school building has, rather how many students are in each class, are relevant to the outcome. The Ministry's training of local authorities in the field of school construction is becoming very understandable, in the light of the Council's opinions today. The right went to a better school choice. At the same time, some public schools decide to introduce so-called voluntary parental pay. I agree that there is a lot of good in Norwegian school today, but we have obvious challenges. There can be no doubt about that. I'm worried that the Council of State doesn't seem to take on the serious signals coming from School-Norway. There is little help in strengthening teacher education if the economy in schools does not improve. So finally, the Labour Party does not agree with the SV and the Center Party on all the proposals that are being promoted here today. Many of the proposals that these parties are promoting are good proposals, which we do not initially have any problems in supporting. But as long as the proposals do not get a majority, the Labour Party believes it would be unfortunate to promote them, since they will then be voted down in the Stortinget. I would also like to refer to the proposals on which we are associated with the SV and the Central Party, and address these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1226	Karita Bekkelem Orheim has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1229	Here comes the alternative. We're dealing with St.meld today. No 16 for 2001-2002 on new teacher training. The Committee has asked for such a case several times, both in the spring of 2000, when the Stortinget dealt with the teacher recruitment message, and in the spring of 2001, when the Stortinget dealt with the Quality Reform, St.meld. No 27, through the Inst. S. No 337 for 2000-2001. There have been high expectations related to the notification of perhaps the most important of our higher education. The starting point of the Party is that the interests of users should be safeguarded. Our goal is for teachers to become better qualified to work at school, by raising the level of professional and educational knowledge. In this way, it can be ensured that students receive measurable objective quality in teaching and that quality is measured. We are pleased with the sub-position of the Quality Committee, which focuses on the open presentation of quality in school, measured in different ways. The current situation is that close to 20 pst. students leave primary school without having satisfactory knowledge of reading, writing and billing. There is a situation that must not continue and that is screaming for renewal even in teacher training. Unfortunately, we can conclude that this is a message where the renewal is not visible, and where there are changes, it is the outcome of the committee's consideration — changes that, in our opinion, are mainly in the wrong direction. General teacher training is central in this matter, natural enough when teachers lay the knowledge base for Norwegian youth through 10 years of primary school. Here it's a little new. The little new thing that the Government has introduced into the compulsory part of teacher training has been replaced by the government parties for a quasi-solution for the KRL subject. The KRL subject is correctly retained as a compulsory subject, but has been reduced from 30 to 20 study credits. The massive protests and warnings against the removal of the CRL subject as a compulsory subject in teacher training have at least led the Government to defeat at this point. This ‘news’, a depriorization and a downturn of a subject as important as the CRL, have also been removed. Otherwise, pedagogy is retained with 30 study credits that now, Norwegian with 30 study credits that now, and mathematics with 30 study credits that now – a little new, actually nothing new. Freedom of choice must continue to be great. The majority approve the Government's proposal to increase freedom of choice from today's 60 points to 120 points. So here it's change, but we don't think it's improvement. At the same time and in the same position, on page 8 under 2.5 Vocational education with professional weight, a majority consisting of the Advance Party, the Government Parties and the Central Party express concern that freedom of choice in secondary and secondary schools has become too great. Nevertheless, government parties are in favour of changing today’s teacher training, where optional content is greatly increased – half of the four-year study period is optional. Based on the status of Norwegian school — shown in the OECD PISA survey among 250,000 students in 32 countries — teacher training should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be given a new content. When Finland puts us in the boots, we might want to see there. Among other things, they have had long-term teacher training with a high proportion of compulsory subjects. When the leader of the Federation of Education now admits school bombs, we should actually listen. The party proposes five years of education for teachers. The Progress Party proposes a three-year Bachelor's programme which qualifies for class 1-4 education. The Progress Party proposes that this training should have mandatory content, as presented in our proposals. We put in a new subject we call leadership, with 30 points, and finally the CRL, with 30 points, as today. I see that a sentence explaining the subject of the Progress Party called leadership has fallen out on page 14, column two, after the review of the KRL subject. I will reproduce it as it should have said: ‘These members assume that professional management should include class management, home school cooperation, conflict management and education/education.’; – herewith quoted and mentioned. In our opinion, the teacher's role as a class leader and the teacher's responsibility as a class leader should be treated in such a separate subject. The party emphasises that teacher training should clearly contribute to the provision of both education and education by the school, in equivalent cooperation with parents. The Progress Party proposes that the last two years of a five-year education should be free, but in such a way that it benefits users. In our view, teachers who teach at high school should have at least 60 credits in the subjects or professional combinations in which they teach. In our view, with a strong mandatory provision for the first three years of teacher training in a degree structure, the quality is improved and it is better ensured. Such a mandatory professional model may also discourage so-called school-leaving students at lower class levels. Improved teacher skills will ensure better motivation and learning outcomes. The proposals of the Progress Party provide new teacher training – new and better teacher training. Pre-school teacher training is also central. Here the government parts will remove the small part of the message. The government will no longer give pre-school teacher training the competence to work in the 1st grade of primary school. However, all other batches will be provided with a means of continuing pre-school education in the first class. The party of progress will also include pre-school teachers in a degree-structured education: three-year education for pre-school teachers with a large number of compulsory subjects based on much of what we put into the bachelor's degree. In the process of improving teacher training, the Progress Party places emphasis on the rejection of students who are not suitable as teachers. Through both written and oral consultations, it has been pointed out that practices need to be improved. Where are the measures? The attitude of the Government is to recommend systematic cooperation between teacher training institutions and kindergartens and schools. The Party will have this as a adopted guide to practical training in accordance with criteria given by the NOKU, which is the new accreditation and evaluation body. In our opinion, agreements should be made with kindergartens and schools on practical training for teachers. In addition, the Progress Party will introduce a certification of teachers one year after leaving the educational institution and starting as a teacher. This certification shall also be carried out in accordance with criteria from NOKU. This is also a new content which, in the view of the Progress Party, will improve the quality of teacher training. The so-called competence requirement differs from that in the consultation round. The party of progress will remove the special requirements for the staff at the school contained in the Training Act §§ 9 and 10. It provides greater flexibility – yet another innovative proposal. A system based on accreditation and evaluation should ensure quality and, in our opinion, should be fully adequate quality assurance. As far as possible, quality questions can be asked today with the current competence regulation. The Progress Party will also eliminate the regulations related to dimensioning – public figures on the number of students for the different institutions that train teachers. At the same time, we will also change the funding system to effort-driven financing, i.e. a system based mainly on unit price per. student. The party involved is not satisfied with the treatment of such important teacher training as vocational training. The Progress Party will have its own case before the end of 2003, with particular emphasis on real competences. Time does not allow for everything, but finally: the Progress Party proposes a research-based evaluation of the conversion of teacher training, both the small adjustments made now and those carried out not long ago. Finally, with comprehensive comments and 11 different proposals, the Progress Party will present a new teacher training programme focusing on improved quality, with enhanced and expanded content. The Progress Party presents a new teacher training based on the degree structure of the quality reform. Teacher training also needs to be renewed if we are to give Norwegian school, Norwegian education a boost to better quality, better education and better results for students. Let me end there where I started: the consideration of the users is the central one in this matter as well. We find little mention and little concern for the users in the case. Teacher training, which should be shorter than other important courses, teacher training with a high degree of professional choice for the student, teacher training without quality assurance of practice and without the certification of teachers, in our opinion, does not reveal any concern for the interests of the users, the students and the parents. This is regrettable to the Progress Party. I refer to the proposals made by the Committee on Education and Training by the Committee on the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1296	Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposals he referred to, as well as made corrections to the adjustment in relation to the comments of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1299	Children and young people are the most important things we have — their experiences, their learning, their impulses. It's our responsibility to give them the opportunity and space to ask questions, to be creative, to be creative and to shape the future. The school is an important common meeting place for all children, and a good school will fight class barriers and create justice. The school shall challenge the students and make demands for each individual student on the student's premises; not least, the school shall be a safe place. It is important that children have a good starting point and safety is the most important basic factor for learning. That is why teacher training and St.meld is. No 16 an extremely important message. The teacher is one of the most important factors, because they're going to teach our children, and they're going to help create the best school in the world. We need teachers who can get questions and creative from the students, we need teachers with a high level of knowledge, a strong pedagogical connection and rooting into their field, this in order to make children independent individuals. Learning through experience is important. Pugging doesn't create a creative, challenging child. Knowledge comes not only through reading but through experience. There are many major challenges in school. You know that bullying is a problem. It's not to germinate that parents put well-being as no. 1, and that kids don't get bullied, as the most important thing. That's the basic thing to be able to create development. We need a school that meets the challenges of the future. There are many challenges that the Committee points to, among others: eating problems. We need a stronger cooperation with the home, and education is very important. Distinguishing number 16 addresses a number of important issues. Firstly, SV supports the Government's proposals on degree structure. We are also very positive that students can choose the five-year integrated course of master's degree. There are many important challenges, as I have said before, in creating the school of the future, with new educational approaches, in using nature and for students to experience. I believe that the environment and environmental education are important. One of the important comments made at the outset by the Committee is that the Committee has taken into account what has been stated by the L97: ‘... to promote democracy, national identity and international awareness, and to develop coherence with other peoples and the common environment of human life. The basis for training teachers must be an understanding of such international challenges as regards poverty, the environment and sound resource management.» This is important – there is no customs. This means that the environment and resource management should be involved in all subjects of teacher training. This means that the environment, poverty and resource management are to go through all teacher training. SV also has a note that the subject of natural, social and environmental education should be part of compulsory teacher training. We believe that teacher training must take care of the importance of the former natural, social and environmental sciences in the use of nature and the local environment in primary schools. These types of active learning forms, where the student gets out of the classroom and himself gets to explore and find knowledge, need to be given emphasis in the field of education. We believe it is important that teacher training continues to prepare teachers for teaching in line with basic natural and environmental understanding. In teacher training, we believe that education needs to be strengthened. Strengthening practice is also important. We are very pleased that the majority are in favour of strengthening the practice. But we have also made a proposal, we want to go further. We want the use of school contracts to be extended and made the main model in primary school. SV wants to strengthen teaching skills in teacher training. We have therefore agreed that the compulsory subjects in general teacher education should be pedagogy with 60 credits, mathematics with 30 credits and Norwegian with 30 credits. We don't want to go into what the majority have agreed to make the CRL subject mandatory with 30 study credits. We believe that this can be done through the pedagogical discipline. This type of problem is now part of the educational profession. I would like to point out that the field of education provides a common platform for all teacher training and is the component that helps to link general teacher training as a vocational education. Therefore, the field of education needs to be strengthened both in terms of its content and in terms of its scope. The evaluation carried out under the auspices of the Norwegian Network Council shows that general school teachers are calling for more pedagogics and more didactics. By increasing the scope of the field of education to 60 study credits, we believe that the common platform for teachers’ students and teacher’s education on which it is to be based will be strengthened. At the same time, when we believe it is important to increase freedom of choice in education, we believe that the strengthening of the compulsory subjects to be in the field of education should take place. We also point to the increased scope for developing the content of the pedagogical subject to take up more professional knowledge, value and culture, and practical and aesthetic teaching methods. As I said, we do not want to support the KRL as a compulsory subject. We want the KRL subject to be part of the pedagogy, Norwegian and mathematics subjects. It is important that the field of education reflects the emphasis of the curriculum on practical and aesthetic forms of work in primary school. When practical and aesthetic subjects are removed as compulsory subjects, it is important that this is carried out by the pedagogical profession. Distinguishing number 16 shows some choices, in which direction you want to go. The Government, with the support of the Advance Party, has removed the requirement for the principal to have pedagogical competence. This is against what most hearing bodies say. This shows a lot about how you view school. For SV, the school is not a company based on purchases and sales. The school is a knowledge company. It is important that the principal has confidence among teachers, and it is important that the principal is competent in what is most important within the school, namely pedagogics. We believe it is important to maintain the training law's requirement for pedagogical competence in order to be appointed as a principal. As a teaching director, the principal task of the principal is to facilitate and guide learning processes. However, we also show that it is important that other parts of the management team should have competence in leadership, financial and human resources. But we believe it is important that the principal continues to have pedagogical education and practice. SV is very pleased that there was a majority that pre-school teachers should have the opportunity to teach in the first grade, which is against the Government's proposal. This is an important victory for us. Pre-school education is to be a first-class education. The method of acquisition shall be pre-school education. It is important that 1st grade is not a regular school offer. It was emphasised that the needs of the 6-year-olds were to form the basis for the offer, and that it should be characterized by free and natural play and pre-school pedagogical thinking and working methods. SV sees the need to implement special recruitment measures...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1356	Yes, speaking time is up – that’s good the representative came with himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1359	Teacher training is important in order for the school to achieve its objectives of developing the pupils into ‘gag’s people. Knowledge-rich, committed and professionally skilled educators are the key to better quality and a better school for students. The government's communication emphasises increased professional immersion and quality in teacher training, by increasing the freedom of choice of students. The Christian People's Party agrees with this change. But the school has a bigger problem. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that a broad majority in the Committee believes that a fundamental part of the teaching task is to develop the students further as human beings. Such a perspective implies that teacher training must also focus on the educational tasks of teaching and cooperation with parents. This overall perspective requires awareness of the whole of the teacher's task. In his last book, about the school between state and market, the schoolteacher Alfred Oftedal Telhaug places the education policy of the government in a neoliberal tradition. He indicates that the government is profiling itself on professional quality and leveling. That is necessary, but the Christian People's Party believes that such a focus alone is not good either for the students or for the school. Learning is much more, it's everything from factual knowledge to social competence. The Christian People's Party insists that professional quality is achieved when you have a stimulating and safe learning environment. It is a strength for Norwegian school when the PISA study to the OECD tells that students thrive in school. This seems to have been forgotten in the debate. Such a starting point gives the teacher good opportunities to increase learning outcomes with a focus on knowledge and mastering, but also to succeed in their education project. It assumes that teacher training enables future teachers to work with both parts: knowledge and education. In the Christian People's Party, we are therefore pleased that a broad majority have gathered on a model of general teacher training that combines this in the compulsory part of education. Here are Norwegian, mathematics, Christian, religious, and life philosophy and basic education subjects that reflect the primary school's task. Education is as central to school understanding as knowledge and professionalism. Greater professional immersion in teacher training is necessary. We are given the opportunity to do this at two years of compulsory subjects and two years of optional subjects for the general teacher students. It must be possible for students to study both in the disciplines in addition to the compulsory credits and to choose other important subjects. The goal must be that the teachers of youth have 60 points of study in their education. Just because of the need for professional immersion, Christian People's Party primarily wants 30 credits in the KRL in the mandatory part. It was not possible to have a majority for this in the Committee's work, and we are therefore satisfied with the broad majority who want CRL as a compulsory subject of 20 study credits. In the Christian People's Party, we are also happy to focus more on basic literacy, writing and mathematics skills. However, it is a failure statement for today's teaching in Norwegian and mathematics in teacher training when teachers fail in this work. We therefore expect these professional environments to take greater responsibility for the basic skills of these subjects, and that the field of teaching also focuses on this topic. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for closer cooperation between educational institutions and the practical everyday life in schools. We need to strengthen the teacher's contact with and competence about the everyday life of the school. Furthermore, we should look at new forms of practical organisation in the study, such as: contracts between the schools and the nursery and school owners. In general, it is important that all training in teacher training is linked to the work situation at school. We know that many newly educated teachers experience it as a shock when they get out of school. At that time, the school owner has an important responsibility for using the skills available in the teacher’s college. Through more committed cooperation between school owners and educational institutions, it is desirable to develop guidance and guidance systems for newly educated teachers. Preschool teachers have been central to the development of primary education in Reform 97. The Christian People's Party is pleased when a broad majority opens up the possibility for pre-school teachers to teach in the first class, and with supplementary education, pre-school teachers can teach up to 4th grade. We know that a good transition between kindergarten and school is important for students' development. It is therefore also appropriate to provide pre-school teachers with training in basic literacy, writing and mathematics training. Finally, a few words about school management. The management at the schools is central to a good learning environment. Recruiting teachers is an important task, taking responsibility for the school's learning work is another. It is therefore important that the management team at schools, of which the principal is a member, have sufficient professional competence, pedagogical competence and managerial competence. The breadth of competence will, of course, often depend on the size of the school, but the Christian People's Party believes that even in the smallest schools, school-based competence must be present. Here we return to the fundamental debate, namely that the insight into learning processes and your own learning strategy is crucial to learning outcomes and personal development.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1381	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for leading the process in the Committee in a clean and good manner. In my five minutes I will concentrate the article on general teacher training. There St.meld. No 16, on new teacher training, called ‘Mangfoldig — demanding — relevant’, came — a great title by the way — reactions were largely positive to general teacher training. For the Central Party, it has been important to stress that skilled teachers must have a solid education, and for us to get good teachers, guidance and follow-up of newly educated teachers is absolutely crucial. The Central Party is therefore involved in a joint proposal together with the Workers’ Party and the Socialist Left, as has been explained earlier, which envisages that all newly trained teachers are offered a guidance package by 2004 and which also obliges the educational institutions. There is a general consensus that the scope of compulsory courses will be reduced and that the optional part will be increased. But the government had cut out the KRL as a compulsory subject in the communication and replaced it with a subject of value and cultural dissemination of 10 study credits. The centre party believes that the CRL subject should continue to be compulsory in teacher training. The reason for this is that the KRL course will give students the professional strength to meet a multicultural school day. Knowledge of religions and views of life is, in fact, necessary for a teacher to meet children and parents from different cultures. Tolerance and dialogue require this knowledge. Furthermore, religion and view of life are identity-creating and link ethics and conduct of life. These help to determine which values are involved and what makes the values binding. The student's meeting with the teacher's KRL course further creates processes that affect the student's own value base in meeting other life views and values, thus helping to strengthen the teacher's meeting with students and supervisors. What's interesting, moreover, is messages from educational institutions that many teacher students who were initially negative to the CRL subject, in meeting with the subject, are really motivated to teach. Without predicting the future, I think this will lead to more students actually choosing depression in this exciting subject. Prime Minister Bondevik stated, according to our country: ‘It may not be so stupid that those who teach in the CRL field are the most motivated, as it is added by the fact that it becomes an electoral subject.’ Christian People's Party representative Elsa Scarbøvik says in our country on 14 June that they slept an hour. And it's possible that the Christian People's Party actually continued to sleep, but they woke up when the Center Party came up with a proposal that the KRL subject should still be a compulsory subject. Now I don't think the Christian People's Party has slept. The reality is that the Christian People's Party lost the matter in government. The government doesn't send a big message without the Christian People's Party being fully behind it? I understand that the Christian People's Party has difficulty walking towards its own Prime Minister who thought freedom of choice in this subject was good. There is therefore a thought provocative of the undersigned to read an NTB message in the Evening Post on 14 June – among others. Elsa Scarbøvik stated – where it says: «Christian People's Party has established a majority for all teachers to have Christian knowledge with religious and life-view orientation [[CRL]] A little honesty should probably also be expected from the Christian People's Party. The party primarily wanted an amount of 30 credits in the KRL subject, but is pleased that the government parties, the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre could agree on the KRL as a compulsory subject and to an extent that gives teaching competence at the primary school stage. In addition, I would like to repeat that I believe that in fact more students will choose to deepen in the CRL, and that we will thus strengthen the CRL in school in a constructive and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1411	The left has always been involved in the teacher's role. First of all, the teacher must be a professional in a child's life, but must also be an adult. It's not all the problems the teacher has to solve, but the teacher has to be the gauge that detects when something is wrong, and tells whom to get help from. The teacher is also the main input factor in the school and the most important measure is now to measure the quality of the school. The aim of schooling is not the wishes or orders of business, nor is it the wishes or orders of society. The goal of the school is the individual's development to become a citizen of a society, the individual's ability to develop his or her abilities and the individual's growth. The left wants to release the school. If we're going to do that, we need good educators who think about new pedagogics, and who also have good expertise. We see the need for renewal of teacher training, and we disagree with the Advancement Party that it is not included in this Communication. We see the need for both structural changes as we propose today, as well as changes in thinking and attitudes on the teacher training side. I have been a seafarer in primary, secondary and teacher education, and the most old-fashioned view of learning I met in the teacher's school. I think the message is good, especially in the area that it is important to care for the teacher in his meeting with the school. Thank you very much and many tough school days as newly educated teachers meet. But there are a lot of people who can play along with you if you get help and support. I'm also especially concerned with the multicultural and multilingual sections. I think multilingualism in the future will be normal. The fact that a child knows one or two languages, or that there's one, two or three languages in the family, I think it's becoming more and more common, not only because we get new Northmen with new languages, but also because Urnorn children have parents who study abroad, or can quickly get a grandmother who comes from another country. Therefore, it is important that teachers in particular who meet the multilingual and the multicultural everyday life of the school receive a follow-up that enables them to build on all the good experiences and all the good ways of working that have developed at schools that have had these challenges for a long time. In addition, it is important to recruit teachers with different cultural backgrounds. I believe that all professions to manage authority in a society must be widely recruited – whether they be police, military or teachers. I also believe that the teacher is an authoritarian. And if a society only recruits teachers from a particular social layer, with a particular appearance or background, we destroy the authority of that profession. Therefore, it is important that those children who have a different skin color also see a mirror image of themselves sea behind the catheter. There have been some debates in the Committee as well. For the Left, it is clear that we had wanted what the Government had put forward primarily in the CRL field, but for us, it was important to get the widest possible majority, and that this was not a hot spot between the different parties. But it is also important that the cultural knowledge and the breadth of that knowledge lie there. It is important that all teachers have a common basis in terms of culture, life views and common values. That's what you need to survive in a society of different cultures and different religions. If you live in Oslo, you have to know who both Jesus and Muhammad are before you understand life around you. You have to understand the Lutheran idea, that good days have to be paid with the bad ones, and you have to understand why you don't get a taxi one day it's ID. I think the most important thing that has happened in changing school was the admission of preschool teachers – a new pedagogy and a new way of thinking. And I think that the majority of the committee is making a start here today, is a step forward in developing that pedagogy and in crossing pre-school education and general teaching as it has been, and in caring for the needs of six-year-olds and wanting the first year to be a little special – we are going to make special demands on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1432	On the part of the Workers' Party, we are committed to raising our eyes and looking forward to future needs, so that we can take the right steps for teacher training. Those who start school today will not be able to go out to work for almost 20 years and take responsibility in a society with demands and expectations that we don't know so much about today. What we can certainly say is that children will need some basic knowledge, and children will need some new knowledge – knowledge that we probably do not know about. today. It is therefore very important, on the part of the Workers' Party, to ensure that teachers receive regular refresher training and updates, in recognition of the increasing pressure on teachers in a rapidly changing society. I would like to stress that this is not only the responsibility of the employer – no, it must also be a national responsibility to provide good opportunities for further development of skills. The working party considers that there is a need for an obligatory follow-up plan for the training of teachers. This important profession, which in many areas manages our basic capital – the children – needs a promise. The teachers deserve to be taken seriously. The organisation of good arrangements to enable the profession to increase its competence through continuing training schemes and/or hospitation is a way of demonstrating that we take them seriously. It is important that teachers are given the opportunity to strengthen their professional skills. But teachers also face other challenges that they need skills to master. In schools, there are problems with intoxication, eating disorders and bullying. Unfortunately, these challenges are increasing. In these very difficult areas, there should be arrangements for teachers and schools to learn from each other. The more qualified teachers are to deal with these difficult problems, the more secure they are to help children and young people with these kinds of challenges. In general, we see that the school actually gets more and more problems at the psychosocial level. Here today's teachers do a formidable job. Our proposal to draw up an obliging follow-up plan for the training of teachers is to provide the general teachers with the necessary professional replenishment and security to help children and young people with drug problems, those who are struggling with eating disorders or living a life of anxiety such as bullying victims. This does not mean that teachers should take on tasks which the auxiliaries or treatment institutions have expertise in. But the teachers are going to have the security to master situations that we know they'll come up with anyway, and get knowledge to help the students get the follow-up and treatment they need. With some exceptions, the Labour Party is relatively satisfied with the steps being taken here in the Stortingen today in the teacher training case. The new education will be a handshake to a profession that demands respect and honor for its efforts in school life across the country. I think this, along with the pay gap for the teachers that we got during the Stoltenberg government, is another contribution to strengthening the recruitment of good teachers to the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1449	If you ask researchers what's most important for students' learning outcomes, you usually get one of two answers: It's the teachers and/or it's the school leaders. All the world's resources and resources cannot replace a bad teacher. A professionally skilled, committed and motivated teacher can do very much even if the framework conditions are not the best. School leaders too are of great importance. Without good school management, you can't expect to recruit the best teachers or create working conditions that stimulate the best in your teachers. And we can bring in another group, the school owners. Good school managers also assume that we have competent and responsible owners and employers who recruit and support the good managers. In my opinion, these important findings must characterise the work of creating a better school. We have to bet on developing the skills of teachers, managers and owners, and we have to give the school a content in terms of professional composition, curricula, etc. These include: tells us what learning outcomes we're going to give to students, which gives us the goals and direction of work at school. We need to assess whether the framework conditions for work in and for school in terms of funding, laws, rules, agreements, etc. are the best and new incentives for improvement or across barriers to the best and best way to run school management and a classroom management. All of this is important for the Government. In addition to the measures taken by the Government itself to strengthen the content of the school, the Quality Committee has been entrusted with the task of assessing the whole of initial training and seeing it in context and making suggestions on how to improve our knowledge and transparency about quality in school. In connection with the Government’s modernisation work in the public sector, initial training has been identified as a main field and we are therefore now reviewing the framework conditions for the school and for those working at school. The evaluation of reform 97 and the comprehensive school experimentation will be an important background. So, in addition, we're trying to raise our skills. There is more focus on targeted continuing training of teachers, and we have arranged for continuing training of school leaders and our own master's degrees in school management. In addition, the message we are dealing with today is intended to provide us with better teacher training. In particular, the focus is on vocational correction and the professional depression. Teacher training shall now be based on a new model, with fewer compulsory subjects and years, and greater possibilities and requirements for immersion towards the steps on which they wish to teach. In addition, greater flexibility in teacher training is provided, with greater opportunities for profiling and specialisation in institutions and better opportunities for further deepening, e.g. by: to study more closely for the students. I am pleased to note that the notification has been very well received in the affected environments, both among teachers and students, and in the university and higher education sectors in general. It has, among other things, the consistency of the proposals being promoted based on comprehensive evaluations of existing training courses, in addition to the fact that the proposals have been widely discussed with the sector itself. Although one issue in particular has been controversial and has received a great deal of attention, I believe that there is still a basis for saying that the Committee's position also shows a great deal of consensus on the main lines, which will be a support for the ministry and institutions when we are about to realise the visions and measures contained in the notification and suspension. The main idea behind the model is that the students should be taught by teachers who have real competence and commitment to the subject in which they teach. In order to achieve skills, you need to deepen, and to be engaged, you need to be motivated. That is why we have proposed a system with a great degree of freedom of choice. But the teacher's corps should not only have a high level of competence. I am also concerned that we are able to recruit a sufficient number of teachers in the respective subjects, and that the teacher's corps provide a fairly correct reflection of the general population in terms of gender, minority background, etc. Therefore, the Communication also addresses incentives and questions of dimensioning that can ensure this. I have noted the Committee's comments on competence requirements for pre-school teachers, teachers and school leaders. In the context of the consultation relating to the new competence regulation, both the proposed simplification and the Ministry's proposal that pre-school teacher training should no longer qualify for first-class education have been wide-ranging. However, I take note that a majority in Stortinget believes otherwise, and I want pre-school teacher training to continue to qualify for first-class work. With regard to general teacher training, I am pleased that the Committee has endorsed the main model. In the mandatory section, the Government proposed a solution different from that of the majority now in favour, but I will naturally follow up the majority's proposal that the CRL should be mandatory at a level of 20 study credits, and that the subject of professional knowledge, which is important, should be part of the pedagogy. I'm glad the unit basic reading, writing and math training is still in place. I am also pleased with the Storting's agreement that in the future we will have simpler, more flexible and comprehensive framework plans, which means that we all have to put pressure on ourselves when it comes to giving overly detailed desires and leadership. In conclusion, let me say that teachers, like some of us, will not be fully educated when they have completed their basic education. For teachers too, lifelong learning will be a reality. Therefore, basic education can never train someone completely or for the rest of his life, and therefore it is also important that students acquire change and development skills through education, and that we put a great deal of emphasis on continuing and developing their skills later in the course of their working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1487	The Labour Party and the Right agree with the main arrangement in important areas of future teacher training, and although the Government is in a few defeats today with regard to compulsory CRL subjects and the ability of pre-school teachers to work in the first class, much of the notification to the Council of State has had its clear support in the Stortinget. The biggest defeat we can say is that the Christian People's Party gets today, as the representative of the Center Party was inside its post. In my main post, I was interested in the importance of the paylift of NOK 50000, to which the government of Stoltenberg was able to obtain. Of course, this has made the teaching profession much more attractive, but of course it will also be important to improve and strengthen teacher training in itself. My question to the Council of State is whether we can expect her in the Council of State to follow up on economic instruments in relation to the intentions she herself has set out in the communication. So far, we know that the government's response to School-Norway has been that only the private schools have gotten more financial resources, and the government wants to spend money on in the future. I also want to challenge the Council of State on what I was in my post, whether it really is such that she believes that there is no connection between the total use of resources and the results in the school? And then it's no use coming back again with OECD statistics that Norway is at the top of the OECD school surveys.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1496	If it's not useful to come up with something that I think is quite important, it's going to be very difficult to answer. So I think I have to get into it anyway. Of course, there is a very important link between resources and achievements in school. I come from a recent meeting in Bratislava with all the Ministers for Education in Europe, and it is quite clear that many countries in Europe give too little overall to school and should raise the overall level of resources in order to achieve quality and better school performance. However, for many countries, it may also be difficult to demonstrate that there is a continuing increase in resources that is crucial to improving quality. In Norway, we – whether the representative Bekkemel Orheim likes to hear it or not – are in total at the top of the world when it comes to resource use in school. As regards resource use per capita in Norwegian school, it has evolved stable or perhaps with a slight increase. And if we look at that resource use, we should have better results in Norwegian school than we have – according to this PISA survey, they are relatively average. Some research has been carried out into what can explain the difference in student performance in Norwegian schools and in schools in many other countries. If we look at the school in Norway, it is like that. 5 pst. differences in student performance can be explained by differences in the resource situation. We know that even though we grant and use a lot of total, the municipalities use different things in school. It can be because of a down-priority, if you don't give it much, but it can also be because you're better at running and running the school. We don't know that in each case. I think it's quite clear – I believe it intuitively – and I also believe that research shows that the most important thing for student performance and quality in school is the teachers. Teachers depend on good school management. School management depends on good owners. In addition, the students' own motivation and, unfortunately, I also get to say, the family background, and I don't think about the families' finances, but about the school motivation, the cultural ballast that the students bring with them from home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1507	Three small things – and first: When Head of the Federation of Education Helga Hjetland talks about ‘school bombs’ – and she does that in these days – one should listen. And what she keeps talking about is that she, among other things. sees it as a management subject, she rightly calls it a "professional" subject, but I think it's actually a management subject she's talking about. Is there not a weakening of this message when the attempt made by the Government to introduce such a ten-point professional or management subject is eliminated during the Committee's proceedings? The other two things go on the length of education and the compulsory versus the freedom of choice. So we have a degree structure with 3+2=5 years. For this important education, we choose a deviation in the negative direction. Isn't that a debilitating thing? Is that not a thoughtable deviation from a main structure we have now introduced, which is part of the Quality Reform? When we also increase freedom of choice for those who are going to carry out this important education, is it not also a weakening? With regard to the length of education and the degree of choice in such an important study, have we seen neighboring countries? Have you seen OECD countries other than those found in Scandinavia? Is there international evidence to choose such a solution when looking at countries with much better learning outcomes than Norway can provide? Is there international evidence to choose a relatively short education across a main model that has just been introduced, and with a high degree of freedom of choice for students in teacher training, when we at the same time take inward the fact that things are not at all good at learning outcomes in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1516	First of all, the need for professional knowledge and what I have the impression that the Progress Party is very concerned about, that there is not only a leader at school, or some leaders at school, but that there are actually leaders inside the class, and that teachers are class leaders. I think that's very well observed, and I think there's a kind of knowledge about leadership that is very much needed in our days, not least in the light of what was mentioned earlier in the case of the other problems you have in school, and on which you should want the teachers not to spend so much time. When the government has made proposals to take in this unit of professional knowledge, it is partly because we believe it is a need, partly because we believe it sent out an important signal, and partly because it has also been requested by the sector. But now I don't experience the majority so that they want to balance away this important topic. The majority here at Stortinget have had a lot to do with the mandatory part, as we've had it. Once you want this new model, you want to organize it in some other way. In order to accommodate this CRL unit, it has been said that professional knowledge needs to be maintained in a different way. I think it's an important signal when the committee says it. The ministry will take it further, and I hope that too is a signal that the institutions perceive. I think they do, also because they themselves think this is important. With regard to the length of education, we have to remember that the quality reform is not just aimed at getting this common degree structure. The aim was not to obtain the highest possible level of education. It is a rather coherent opinion in the sector and through the consultations we have conducted, that four years are sufficient. But I want to add: here, there are plenty of opportunities to deepen and move on and take master degrees. Personally, I think it might become quite common, and that it will give many the opportunity to take a longer education. I am not afraid of freedom of choice, because I believe that it ensures that you are both immersed, and that you are doing so in a subject for which you are motivated and engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1523	Both in the Communication submitted to the Stortinget and in other contexts, the Council of State has clarified that the competence of teachers is crucial to the quality of school. But without updates and dedicated and competent teachers, it's impossible to create a good school. Teachers have a type of work that requires regular updating both professionally and pedagogically. It is therefore disappointing that, in its communication on teacher training, the Government does not make more concrete and binding proposals to step up the training of teachers, so as to ensure a continuous updating of the teaching staff. It is also disappointing that the government parties do not support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV, the proposal for an obliging escalation plan for the training of teachers. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State on how she will facilitate the possibility of giving more teachers the opportunity to stay professionally and pedagogically up-to-date to ensure a higher qualified teacher's corps in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1533	I fully agree with the representative Lena Jensen that continuing training and continuous development of competence are very important for teachers. It's going to be important for absolutely everyone. Regardless of the level of basic education, this becomes an important reality through the working life you have, and through life in and on its own. For all people, I think this will also be a great personal responsibility. Of course, something is going to happen through the workplace, but it's going to be a personal challenge for us that we can learn more during life. That's why it's also going to be a more important task for the school to teach children how to learn, and the fact that the children get curious, so that they can seek out knowledge later in life. In the case of teachers in particular, continuing education is the responsibility of a large number of school owners. But I believe that we have shown that we are also very concerned about this, will give priority and follow up on it. I remind you that we have taken the initiative to get quite a large-scale continuing training of teachers in the field of ICT, among others. through the so-called Teacher ICT developed by the University of Agder. We are committed to providing flexible continuing training services in Norwegian, mathematics, foreign languages, school management, etc., which are to be administered by SOFF. We have gone through state resources, more than ever known to me, to develop skills in priority areas. After we've got a new curriculum in the CRL field and since it's a new subject, I think it should be an area where you should focus on continuing education. I also believe that the measure taken by the Government as a preliminary test scheme, namely the so-called demonstration schools, is also an important measure, because it will be able to raise up schools that get something positive in important areas. They can act as centres of continuing education — I should say — where teachers and other school leaders can visit and receive training. This is an area I will follow very carefully because I believe it is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1540	Teacher resources are very important. That's what we're doing and we're talking about now that the Stortinge treats a new teacher training. The Communication contains much on guidance for newly educated teachers and on continuing training. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim was in his contribution to the situation around the schools. What we see is, in fact, that the resources of the municipal budgets for further education for teachers are falling. Then I get a little worried about both guidance for newly educated teachers, and further training for teachers who have been in the profession for a long time. I'm happy with the signals the Council of State gives when she says she wants to organize further education in different disciplines, but I'm actually a little worried because the situation around the schools is dramatic. When parents start talking about voluntary parental pay, I'm afraid there's someone who loses. So my question is whether the Council of State will repeat that she thinks there is enough resources in Norwegian school, as she has previously stated in the Questionnaire, or whether she believes that more resources need to be allocated, among other things. to improve teachers – what this teacher training is actually an important start.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1549	Let me first say: I do not underestimate the financial problems that some schools think they are in. I have met parents' representatives for two schools that have been mentioned a lot in the media lately, and it is not that I ask questions about their reality description in the way they experience it. What I still think we have a duty to engage in is that we collectively grant a lot of money, spend a lot of resources, but have average results, and then we have to ask ourselves: is it possible to get more out of the resources? I mean, we're going to be at the top of the world, I, when it comes to resource use at school. Norway should do so. I think we can give more to the schools too, but I don't think we can sit still and not get a better ratio between resources and results. We have to be interested in how we can get more out of the heads, either the level of funding is how it has been per capita, which is quite stable over many years, or whether it should increase. I think we're making some mistakes. I call them system errors. I know that a lot of people think it's a word that it's a little difficult to get involved in – maybe not some kiosks – but nevertheless it's necessary to get involved in it. Let me give you some keywords. What we're talking about today, competence for teachers is very important. And I think this is also important for school managers and owners, far beyond the teachers. Secondly, I think it's very important that we get knowledge about quality in Norwegian school, both over time and compared to others, because it's hard to get to school if we don't know about quality. Then it's hard to have any assessment of what to do with it. Thirdly, I think it is important to have good funding systems, not just a level of funding, but funding systems that provide incentives for quality improvement. I ask myself, do we always have that today? I could talk about it for quite a while, but I don't always think the funding systems are just or purpose-efficient. And fourthly, I believe that laws, regulations and agreements are also possible to simplify, so that schools, teachers and leaders get more space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1564	We need a lot of tools to meet the goals of a good school. Today we are discussing the training of teachers, which we want professionally qualified teachers. The consensus in this case is also indicative that when we discuss changes in content to improve quality, it is a great deal of consensus. Then we get to what was affected in the previous line, that in the school we want, we need more money. The acute reality around the municipality of Norway is that teaching positions are cut, classes are merged, necessary maintenance and refurbishment are postponed, and textbooks and teaching materials are poor. Engaged parents join forces and will actually pay thousands of dollars to provide their own children and young people with a good training offer. In fact, they realize that there is more money that is needed. And the Clemet State Council doesn't reject them and say no, we have more than enough money in Norwegian schools. My question is this: Is the Council of State, as the top in charge of the education sector, at all concerned with today's acute situation for schools around the municipality of Norway, where the government parties and the Progress Party are responsible for the financial framework? It is not enough to say that there are system errors, and actually wait for the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1573	We are now perhaps a little bit on the side of the teacher's education message, but nevertheless, I think it was a strange statement from the Labour Party. We are at the top of the world when it comes to resource use. We've had an increase in resource use per capita, and the local economy right now is probably a little better than the Workers' Party put up in the state budget, because the municipal economy that we proposed next year hasn't begun to work yet. If it's true that there's a close link between resource use and results, I think it's very strange that the results are not much better. Why aren't the results at the top of the world? Or, if it's right as the Labour Party says, that this is just about more money, why hasn't the Labour Party done anything about it before? So there's nothing new that's happened right now. We have had a very high resource use over many years, and per capita there is a stable development. So if this is a new recognition the Workers' Party has now received, it's in itself okay, but if it's not a new recognition, it's strange that you haven't done anything about this before. One more thing: whether I'm concerned about the situation? Of course I'm worried. What I'm very concerned about is how we, who are politicians at national level, should deal with local self-government and the municipalities. I think it's worth summing up to say that in the case of the school, the state and the national politicians have long lost influence over the economic priority of the schools in the municipalities, because that's what you can do. It is financed through framework financing. Then you try to compensate for it at regular intervals through action plans and/or earmarks in the field of school or in other areas, but unfortunately there is a tendency for problems to slip out elsewhere. This I think is a little bit of an evil circle which is what I call a system problem, and which we have to take a stand for and try to get out of. Otherwise it's going to be an evil circle, and I think it applies no matter what level you put on in the community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1585	The government’s proposals for new teacher training will give teachers greater freedom of choice. The notification places special emphasis on the subjects of pedagogy, Norwegian and mathematics. The Christian People's Party believes that it is also important to continue the mandatory CRL subject into the new teacher training. I'm glad there's a broad majority in favour of this. I fully agree with the Rune Kjellaa of the Center Party that he was a proponent in getting this done. I am not responsible for the NTB's message to which he refers, but I refer to my own press release. I don't think of this as a defeat. Since this has created some debate, I would like to use this post primarily to justify why the Christian People's Party – and this is also the whole big group – believes that the KRL subject is important. I want to start from a note written by the Church, Education and Research Committee a year ago in Innst. S. No 240 for 2000-2001: ‘Basic knowledge of each other is a prerequisite for respectful dialogue and social inclusion.’ And on the other hand, ‘Without thorough knowledge of Christianity and our history, it is difficult – not to say impossible – to understand Norwegian society.’ I also see it as crucial that every teacher learnt about this in his education, what the CRL profession involves. KRL is a central tooling profession in the meeting with students at school for all teachers, not just for those who teach in the field. It gives building materials to the student's reflection on values, human vision and human rights. Next to the family, the school is the most important valuer institution. The school should promote understanding and respect for individuals, but a prerequisite for this is to know one's own position and to have knowledge of the values on which one's society is based. Other countries regard Norway as a precursor country in ‘religious education’. Some countries have tried to avoid religion in school, because there has been a conflict theme, but they now realize that the school needs to promote value-sharing in order to build identity and dialogue. In connection with the debate on the CRL subject in Stortinget a year ago, it appeared that some teachers thought that the subject had become too academic, and that students thought it was boring, because it became too theoretical. At the time, the Committee considered that students should continue to have experiences through music, song and drawing and visits to sacred places, even if this may trigger exemptions. It is through life interpretations in practice that the subject becomes more than theory. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of teacher training focusing on the dialogue between home and school. It is absolutely necessary to contribute to good learning for all children regardless of background. Teachers must therefore be made aware of the parent’s mandate in relation to helping the school at home in the child’s education. School-home cooperation is an important topic. Teacher training is a professional training, in which theory and practice should be linked. Vocational corrections should be included in all subjects of education, including in the CRL, where professional ethics is a natural part of the subject. The Church, Education and Research Committee therefore unanimously expressed its opinion in the Innst. S. No 240 a.m. last year: ‘The Committee believes that strengthening teacher competence is one of the most important measures to ensure that the CRL subject is given greater legitimacy and could thus continue as a common subject.’ Studies show that KRL is the subject in school where the lack of competence among teachers is greatest. It is therefore also important to continue training in this subject, which I now hear from the Council of State. The trade is a science, but also an education. The KRL course is glued to the school itself, said a teacher at Fjell School recently. The government has made proposals to amend the Education Act in relation to the school environment. The aim is to ensure a better psychosocial environment, i.e. protection against bullying, violence and discrimination. When we know that the teacher is the key to doing something about this, we also need to focus on these aspects of teacher training. When 100,000 students are involved in bullying each day, I believe that every teacher must be obliged to participate in the current bullying programme. The competence of teachers in drug problems has also been sought. Among other things, ‘Lions Quest’, in cooperation with the Ministry, has developed a teaching material that addresses these matters. This has been evaluated later, and now more than 18,000 teachers have been schooled in this scheme. It has been demonstrated that the focus on such prevention is effective. Therefore, teachers’ students also need to be involved in these kinds of tasks in order to be prepared for a day-to-day school where they are to help children mastering, unfolding and social development. It is therefore quite right that teacher training must be diverse, demanding and relevant. It is just underlined in a unanimous comitology that ‘the teaching profession is the most important knowledge profession we have’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1620	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1623	In several articles, the Council of State has used the term ‘results’ to mean that the results are no better than what they are. We actually know a little bit about how Norwegian students do it. We know a little bit. We have some comparative studies that show that Norwegian students score above the average in terms of some subjects. We have other comparative studies that show that in terms of understanding democracy, the Norwegian students are the best, and that there is a good match between the curriculum and what they score. In other areas, we know relatively little about how good the results are. That's why it gets a little signal when the Council of State repeatedly uses the word'result' as she does. I wish she moderated it a lot. We have a tendency to circle in terms of teacher training, from an education that is strongly centralized, with detailed framework plans and a large number of mandatory subjects, we are now moving towards four compulsory subjects and greater freedom for each institution and individual student. This is a right path. In fact, I regret that the Government and the Council of State do not get a majority in order for it to be three compulsory subjects. It is actually only SV who insists on the government's proposal that only Norwegian, math and pedagogics should be compulsory subjects. A strange mix of arguments and professional claims is used when discussing which subjects should be compulsory. Making a subject compulsory in teacher training does not mean that the subject is given a higher status than other subjects. The fact that courses should no longer be compulsory does not mean that their status in school is weakened. Probably the opposite will happen. Teacher students who are now to choose more subjects will certainly get a stronger professional commitment. It is motivation and interest that should be the driving force behind the choice of subjects. I am absolutely sure that the best teachers are the ones who have chosen the subject according to their interest and should not teach on the basis that the subject was promoted as a compulsory subject in the teaching course. The fact that the majority expands the number of compulsory subjects by 33 pst suggests that they have little confidence in the institutions and students. An overall committee supports the proposal that teacher training should continue to be four-year-old. Ideally, I would like us to take the step fully and adapt teacher training to the other higher education structures. Had we had a five-year run and had to create a whole new teacher training, I am absolutely sure that we could have made an even better product than what we are doing today. But I take note that there is no interest or willingness to expand general teacher training. However, I hope that the educational institutions will develop programmes based on Bachelor's and Master's degrees. They should do this because I am absolutely sure that many students will be asking for such educational programmes. It is based on the fact that today very many people have a five-year teacher training course based on basic and continuing training. I don't think our proposals have been taken up before. I am addressing the proposals on which we stand alone, and the proposals on which we agree with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1640	The representative Reikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It starts to become quite a number of people who have signed up for three minutes' articles. The President asks everyone to think through the necessity of their contribution before the article is kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1645	For the Cooperative Government, education is one of the most important areas of activity. State Council Kristin Clement warned early that you would improve the quality of Norwegian school, and that the teacher is important to get it done. The government's proposal for new teacher training shows that the Council of State follows up the ambitions of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to improve the quality of Norwegian school. The teacher is the most important single factor in how well education actually becomes. This takes the Right and the Government seriously and believes that there is a need to improve teacher training. That is why the Government proposes, among other things, a specific subject of teacher training to improve the competence of future teachers at the start of initial learning in reading and writing. The government and the right are also concerned with the professional quality of teachers. It is therefore good that the Committee has endorsed the proposal that teachers who teach at secondary school should have a minimum annual unit in the subject in which they teach. The system doesn't add up to quality when in today's school you can risk having math teachers who only have one year more mathematics than the student they teach. This will, of course, be history in the future by the fact that the Committee has given its full support to the Government's approach. Then there's something I feel a little bit strange, and that I think is directly wrong. It says, among other things: in the Committee's comments on the Progress Party, that there is skepticism about recruitment campaigns in order to get better input from teachers. State Council Clement has run a targeted campaign in the last year to get more people to apply for teacher training. The result of this campaign is that 8.3 pst. several have applied for general teacher training, 5,7 pst. several have applied for vocational training and there has been an increase of 19,9 pst. for those who have applied for the unit of year in the field of teacher training. State Council Clement's efforts to focus on the teacher and the important role that he or she has have have have contributed to more people now wanting to be teachers. Taking a summary of the changes in teacher training, it can be said that the Stortinge largely supports the Government's line of improving the quality of school. There is a great deal of agreement on the main lines stacked up by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. This Norwegian school will reap the fruits of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1659	That there is a strong need for a reform of teacher training should be beyond doubt. Both as a politician and as a schoolman, I have felt like a cross of thought that teacher training has in no way been in line with developments in Norwegian school or in society. New teachers have been trained for yesterday's school, not for today's and certainly not for tomorrow's. Professional depth and flexibility, with greater freedom for institutions and for students, permeate the message that we are dealing with today. Teacher training has been struggling with recruitment for many years, even though we have seen improvements in recent years. The profession of teacher and teacher training has not been attractive enough. It can be caused by a lot of things. Teacher training has been seen by some as an emergency solution if one has not successfully completed other courses. I don't think pay has been the only reason for the low recruitment. It is also due to the fact that education has not been seen to be in time. Teacher training has not been considered to be of the same professional level as other courses. The new teacher training will correct this. We get an education with depth and flexibility, an education in the pact with the requirements to be set for teachers in tomorrow's school. From getting a lukewarm semi-disciplinary we now get professional depth, from having to lead everyone through the same race we now get an education that gives individuality. Individuality has been tried to eradicate in the Norwegian educational system, and it is a dangerous game that could end up with great losses. Individuality gives a personal relationship to the teaching work. It gives commitment, it gives security to the teaching role, it gives the ability to bring a message, it gives the ability to be a supervisor and a teacher. It's actually giving us good results. Teacher training that does not promote individualism combined with knowledge, commitment and care in the work of the students is poor teacher training. I have faith in the model that the committee in the setting has largely joined. Some changes have been made in relation to the government's model, but the main idea and the whole is still present in full. Overall, the proposed changes are relatively small, yet of considerable importance. Personally, I am very pleased that the KRL subject is again a compulsory subject. I think that's important and quite fundamental in terms of providing security to further basic values and cultural knowledge. The right is also in the majority who will continue to give pre-school teachers competence for first-class education, but I would like to stress the majority comment where the department is asked to ‘look at the possibility that basic literacy, writing and mathematics training are also given priority in pre-school teacher training’. The need for a new teacher training has been required. I believe that the new teacher training will provide new recruitment to this enormously important profession, better quality of education and better education in school. This is very necessary. For Norwegian school this is a good day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1674	The representative Olsen is a wise man. Historically, however, teacher training has been dated as a fresh product with the ‘best before’ approach to the next major period. This has led the batches to make more or less successful changes to show that they are active in relation to this important field of work. A little bit of newspaper clipping from this year is in place. Evening post 30 January: ‘New teachers can’t attend school’ — based on a survey by the Norwegian Network Council. Financial paper 31 January: The Clemet with new playback. A high percentage of stress and low workload among teacher students suggest that there is a need to do something basic about teacher training, she believes.’ Dayleaf 31 January: «Teacher training is too poor». And finally, the newspaper on February 1st: «Good children lack respect, wear out the teachers: they ask too much.» The solution or answer to all of this seems to be that education should be largely optional, so that the teachers of the future will teach in the subjects and at the stages they want to teach, as the Council of State said. What if there aren't any teachers to teach where we think it's important? We still remember that many of the problems we face today come out of freedom of choice, that you could choose away important subjects like Norwegian and mathematics. Voie praised both the CRL subject, which the majority has managed to reduce by 10 points of study, i.e. one third, and the fact that the important management function, competence, is integrated among others. in this subject. Management competence is important, and there is also evidence that there is a total lack of it in teacher training today. Several researchers have pointed this out for many years, starting in the mid-1980s, but when you're finally getting management skills into the profession, as the Progress Party has pointed out, you rotate it away and put it into a reduced CRL field. This is almost a bit embarrassing. Finally, I would like to point out that, as the representative of Reikvam said, there is not a single committee behind four-year teacher training, because we wanted the standard model for teacher training as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1695	The representative Olsen summed it up nicely. There is a message with small changes, yes it can actually be reinforced by saying that there is a message with little new and few, if any, quality improvements in teacher training. It is of, among other things, by the Council of State made a number of the fact that interested parties have largely terminated the notification. Until it is said that interested parties actually deliver very poor goods, so that they have to find out that the statements are then assessed. But what's interesting is that a party that's most affected, namely the Education Association, which organizes most teachers, has come up with slightly different thoughts in 12 hours and signals that there are actually important elements that are too poorly cared for in teacher training and that should be put in place, among other things. the management profession. These scrambled 10 points that have come in, are now squandered in the interview. And then finally this with the length of education. We perceive that the degree structure and 5-year training courses to provide well-qualified education have been chosen with care. It's actually a thought behind it. Education has been viewed internationally, and it has been seen that, in order to achieve good quality in many courses, five years are chosen as the main course. Then it is regrettable that this country’s education is as important as its teacher’s education. I agree with the Council of State that it is actually the teacher who is the most important factor for the students to get a good learning result. Although we've done a lot of business in the school construction sector, it's the teacher that's important. We're still going to spend a lot of money on our teaching, but when we show a learning result in line with the mediocre nations, there's a lot of things we have to do. Among other things, it is important to look at teacher training, and then we should pay much more attention to quality assurance. We should make sure that the important subjects are given more weight and clarity in order to obtain good quality, and we do this best in the light of the Progress Party by making more subjects mandatory. We also do this by ensuring a five-year study, where the first three years will focus on giving children 1 to 4. the highest possible level of education in the class.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1706	The representative Rolf Reikvam made a point that four compulsory subjects suggest that the majority have little confidence in the students and the institutions. No, it is rather the opposite, Mr Rikvam! We keep the main model with two years of compulsory subjects and two years of optional subjects, just as SV has actually set up their model. It gives great trust and freedom to both institutions and students. Nor is it the case that the subject of «prophesy knowledge», including being a teacher and a leader, is squandered – even on the contrary. It is explicitly stated by the majority that this should be included in the subject of pedagogics to the extent proposed by the Government. And what about the subject of pedagogics? Isn't it just its main content to give a good introduction to being a teacher, being a leader in the class? It must be one of the main elements of the pedagogical subject which is underlined by the majority's position and emphasis. Otherwise, we think it is nice for both the Government and the Council of State to be able to record the broad connection and the many good statements that also come in the Stortinget about the new teacher training. The representative Skei Grande was concerned that there was a need for a change of mind and attitudes, and that perhaps those she had experienced at least had the ability to take this inwards so far, were the ones who were training teachers. Now it's at least four years before we get new teachers out with this new education. In the meantime, both those who are in teacher training as students and those who are professionals in teacher training institutions are to pursue their profession — both in these four years and in the time that comes. I believe that the Council of State has a great job of spreading the good news that it is now going into a situation in Norwegian school where it is possible to take initiatives, where alternative education is desirable, where alternative organisation is desirable and lawful, and where – above all – it is desirable with different development projects. Central governance is excluded through circulars and directives and the release of individual schools and institutions. This is precisely a change of mind and attitude. My call to the Council of State is: Start with the teacher training institutions – spread the good news to those who will shape the teachers of the future! Then we will achieve the goal that the large and broad majority agrees on, in an even better and faster way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1719	That there is a broad majority behind the main features of the message is very good. The main model is in place, and there is also a broad consensus on the content. The representative, Bjørnstad, said that the distinction in school policy now goes on resources. At least then it is good that you agree on the content. The debate has also clarified that it is a majority in Stortinget who want a professional immersion for the teachers in high school. Following the contributions of Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party, the aim is for teachers to have a depth of 60 study credits in their youth education, clearly and clearly expressed. SV and the representative Rikvam criticise that the majority will make the KRL mandatory in teacher training. I think the representatives of Kijlaaen and Scarbøvik have given a good reason why the subject belongs naturally to the understanding of the teaching task. The surprising thing is that SV does not see the same need. It must mean that SV assigns content to the teaching task other than knowledge and education. However, I have not heard the SV's alternative description of the teacher's task. Some today have made the vote as a defeat for the Christian People's Party. That's not right. In the committee position, the Christian People's Party is in every majority. We think the changes the committee has made are good, sensible and forward-looking. It is a strength for teacher training that there is a broad majority behind the content. The rose that has been given today, both to the President-in-Office and others, is therefore well deserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1730	In a note it says that a majority, the members of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, ‘is intended for the compulsory CRL subject to have a level of 20 study credits. This majority refers to the fact that the elements of the two 10 «Professional knowledge» and «World and Cultural Dissemination» subjects proposed by the Government can be addressed both in the CRL subject and in pedagogics». Pedagogics have had the task of doing just that for all years, but have not been able to do so. It was not without reason that Ogden, published in a survey in January 1997, repeated what he came up with in the mid-1980s, that the school's problem is a lack of knowledge of class management. In spite of all of this, it does not seem that that majority is able to acquire a class management subject as an independent element, which ensures class management in relation to conflict management, in relation to equivalent parental/school cooperation, etc. All of these are actually the main components of the school’s problem today. It is proven in the report after report, both domestically and abroad, and here we sit in a congregation of mutual admiration and clapp each other to the shoulder and say that all this is good. It is correct – I agree with Voie in one thing – that the Council of State has a big task ahead of it. The question is, is it too big?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1744	I owe it to the representative Ursula Evje that she should read the whole setting with comments from the majority. She also learns that ‘professional knowledge is introduced as part of the compulsory education of pedagogics’, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26. [[See page 3410]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1767	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1784	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1801	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1817	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1824	One of the biggest tasks is to check whether government and administration follow the decisions taken by the Storting. The Civil Ombudsman is the Stortinget's extended, yet seaworthy arm, and the practical exercise of parts of this control. Not only that, the Civil Ombudsman is the people's lawyer, and he has the entire public administration as a working area. The Ombudsman therefore has a very important role to play, and I would like to stress that it is very important for the administration to follow up the decisions or recommendations made or made by the Ombudsman. It is important in terms of trust in government, confidence in democracy and legal certainty. It is assumed that the administration will both prioritize and devote considerable work to the Ombudsman’s enquiries. The Committee is pleased with the job done by the Civil Ombudsman. It is a unanimous committee that supports the setting of the annual report. In the Annual Report, the Ombudsman is doing well to ensure that the legal issues raised by the complainants become increasingly complex and difficult to understand. Public law is increasingly giving citizens ‘rights’. The increasing legalisation of administrative relations with citizens contributes to the strengthening of the individual’s legal status, while increasing expectations of what the administration can do. The fact that the rights are enshrined in discretionary words and expressions contributes to the growing complexity of the review process, resource-intensive and time-consuming. It is therefore important that the Stortinge provide the financial framework necessary for the Ombudsman to carry out his or her job as an inspector and the people's lawyer. An overall committee notes that the issue of transparency in administrative internal documents remains unresolved. Two issues are highlighted: Bergen’s Official Journal asked for transparency around Globe II, and the Civil Ombudsman asked for transparency in order to assess the use of more publicity. That former State Council Hanne Harlem rejects the request of the Civil Ombudsman, is perhaps not so perceptive, but that State Council Dørum does so, which is from a party that has flagged the importance of transparency, amazes me, to say the mild, sail if it is an internal dialogue on how to deal with the case of the Civil Ombudsman. An overall committee agrees with the Ombudsman’s assessments that the Ministry of Justice’s interpretation of the Ombudsman’s Act § 7 is difficult to reconcile with the Ombudsman’s mandate. The Committee therefore asks the Ombudsman to assess whether a change in the rules can solve the issue of transparency and, in the event, to propose such an amendment. The right of the Ombudsman to borrow documents must not be restricted. The broad powers of the administration shall be compensated for by allowing the Ombudsman to examine the reasons for such refusals. When the administration refuses to see documents, the balance is distorted, and it is at least SV believes that neither the Ombudsman nor the Stortinget can live with. The Ombudsman raises the question of the role to be played following the conversion of the LFS. He also discusses whether the Ombudsman's relationship with human rights should be clarified in law or instructions. The Committee asks the Ombudsman to make concrete proposals on how to resolve these issues. Another issue addressed in the Annual Report is the ambiguity of the activities in relation to the Social Security Court. The Committee agrees that it would have adverse consequences if the facts of the proceedings in the Social Security Court were not cleared up by the county councils, which the Ombudsman is now dealing with. The Committee agrees that, if the situation does not improve, the Ombudsman is very much in favour of dealing only with the right of asylum in such cases. There are a number of interesting and important issues raised by the Ombudsman in this setting. There are, however, these I have chosen to comment on. I will finally run a little PR for the Civil Ombudsman's Annual Report, and say it's readable, and that's also the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1841	I will begin by stressing the central role of the Civil Ombudsman. Citizens may complain to the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman may initiate administrative inquiries. This is important for the legal certainty of individuals and for better governance. The Ombudsman has the whole of Norway's public administration as a working area. He is the trustee of Stortinget, and the inquiries the Ombudsman makes are, after a general mandate from Stortinget. The annual report states that the Ombudsman can therefore not be seen as an overall authority or administrative body, but more as a personal corrigendum to the bureaucracy. In the annual communication, the Ombudsman addresses the relationship with the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Storting. With regard to investigations by both the Ombudsman and the Committee, it has generally been the Ombudsman's position to be cautious about examining cases where they concern questions raised by the Stortinget. In principle, it is not difficult to distinguish between the cases where there has been an ‘injustice against the individual citizen’, but in practice there can be an overlap between the Committee and the Ombudsman. It is worth noting here that the control committee deals with matters relating to individuals, that person loses the right to bring the matter before the Ombudsman. It is difficult to draw a general line out of this, but the Committee should continue to be cautious about dealing with issues relating to individuals. This border area was most recently expressed in the adoption case of the control committee discussed in spring. Treatment in Stortinget may be seen as leading to any subsequent inquiry by the Ombudsman, and it is considered to be very unfortunate. The confidence of people in the Ombudsman depends on the perception that he treats and investigates complaints on an independent basis. It is therefore important, both for the Committee and for the Ombudsman, to clarify as early a case as possible who should deal with the matter. The annual report also mentions the role of the Ombudsman in relation to human rights. Human rights mean that fundamental requirements are imposed on the legal system and the protection of the legal status of citizens. In this way, human rights regulate the position of individuals vis-à-vis public authorities and the obligation of authorities towards their citizens. In Norway, human rights are enshrined in the Constitution, which states that the authorities must respect and guarantee human rights. The human rights conventions to which Norway is bound shall also be considered as burdensome legal sources when applying legislation, in law enforcement. When the Ombudsman examines complaints or addresses cases on his own initiative, part of the basis for the inquiry is precisely to clarify whether the administration has sufficiently taken account of and promoted human rights in its exercise of discretion. Infringing the human rights of an individual means that an individual is wronged. The Ombudsman may not take legally binding decisions but deliver opinions that are given priority. The Christian People's Party wishes to underline the valuable role of the Ombudsman in the exercise of human rights. There is a central point here that the Ombudsman can address matters on his own initiative and that he can therefore carry out investigations into the administration's practice of human rights without having to wait for the complaint from the affected. The Ombudsman’s recommendations need not be based on legal considerations, and they provide greater leeway than the courts have. The relationship with human rights is relatively often invoked in complaints to the Ombudsman, in particular concerning asylum, residence, family reunification and expulsion. In these cases, the Ombudsman took, inter alia: raise the lengthy procedure. In this way, the Civil Ombudsman is helping to safeguard the individual’s rights and improve administration. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased with the work done by the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1861	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 30. [[Food, see page 3412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1877	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time be set at 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a given ratio of 5 lines of reply to posts by members of the Government. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1882	This is really one thing with a lot of ingredients, where you can pick a little bit of different angles of incidence. Some would argue that this is about the obligation to live as a system, others might see it more as a matter where the central authorities set aside local assessments and decisions, while for my part I have been most concerned about looking at this matter as an excellent example of what can happen when decisions are made without the processing being sufficiently robust. I'm not going to go into the history of the case, for the time being it doesn't allow, but just point to the matters that the majority of the committee believes were the basis for the Department's rescheduling of previous decisions, namely that the seller of the property "Solvang" was unable to sell the property as a full-year residence at what the department thought was an acceptable price. When I claim that there is a decision in this case without sufficient investigation or prior proceedings, I base it on the following two factors: the seller was in the situation that he had an agreement to sell the property as a leisure property at a price of about 10 million kroner. kr. The seller is now informed that if he is unable to sell the property as a full-year dwelling at an acceptable price in the area in which the property is located, this could give an opening to look at the concession treatment again. With a dwelling obligation, the price would fall significantly. That's what the committee heard. The seller should then, with enthusiasm and on the ground, try to sell a property for maybe $3 million. SEK-4 million. kr – it is somewhat unclear what the department would have accepted as a price in the area – knowing that if he is unable to do so, he will have to accept that the property will be sold as a leisure property and receive approx. Ten million. kr. No real estate agent, lawyer or method was used to verify the offer or the lack of offers. The Ministry has no other point of view than what the seller himself presents with regard to the offers made, if any, or which would have been made if the sale had been taken over by a broker. The sale of the dwelling that is a full-year residence is to the detriment of the seller, not a sale for the benefit of the seller. So the fact that he did not receive an offer of what the ministry considers to be a minimum was the very basis for the conversion decision. It would then be thought that the department would be very concerned to obtain a qualified confirmation that the sale at that price was not possible. The second relationship is precisely about the price the department thought it was necessary to achieve in order for a sale of the dwelling to be accepted throughout the year. The Ministry has made a significant contribution to blame for the pricing of the municipality and refers to the sale of the property ‘Gården’ for approx. Five million. kr. If I am allowed to quote, the municipality says about "Gården": ‘The request concerns a large residential property at a very high price. But this is an attractive property with a large building mass that lies idyllically on the Aker Island. These types of properties are few in the market and therefore demand is high. Therefore, Lillesand Municipality does not find the basis for withdrawing the concession because the purchase price reflects the price level in the area.» This is the only department used to determine the price level in the region. If the ministry doesn't do it any other way than by comparing it with this one property, I think it's good reason to say that the department has not carried out a case study of the quality and extent that normally characterise this department. Maybe it should also be a thinker that they actually paid $5 million. kr for ‘Gården’, as full-year residence. Thus, ‘Gården’ was sold as a full-year residence for 5 million. kr. But "Solvang," the property we are discussing today, no one, as far as we know, was willing to pay such an amount for. The Council of State is a man of great faith in the market and in market forces, and this relationship should provide ground for a certain reflection of the Council of State. Why was no one willing to pay such a sum for this property as annual residence? Two million. After all, everything was offered for this property as a full-year residence. In any case, the department found that too little. It's very hard to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1900	The size shall now finalise the concession case — the property ‘Solvang’ on the Åker Island in Lillesand. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has had a thorough and comprehensive examination of this matter, as detailed in the Committee's position. Let me repeat the starting point. At the beginning of March, large headlines and related war headlines were made in some newspapers claiming that Minister of Agriculture Sponheim had intervened in a single case, converted an earlier decision and made sure that a party trap named Thommess had received a significant million prize. Between the lines there were unfine claims that Sponheim had performed a pure friend service against a party trap he allegedly should know very well. This, combined with some unfortunate handling of the information of the Stortinget, led the opposition in Stortinget to jump on the case, smelled the blood of the state council, and expressed ambitions to push forward a reform of the Council of State decision. For a long time, however, it has been clear that the Minister of Agriculture's decision is certainly standing. For these – first and foremost the representatives of the Workers' Party and the SV – this matter must appear as a solid political magic. Or said in another way: up like a lion and down like a skin trap. At the beginning of this matter in the committee, they obviously thought – from their point of view – that they had a good case. Today we can determine that they hardly have a fig leaf back. The lesson they should probably draw from this case, that the next time they think about something better before they make a feather or two into an entire henyard. From the colourful weekly press, we have gradually become well-known that many millionaires like Mäle, Stordalen and Tvenge have large palaces in Blindleia in the South. But they don't have housing because their estates are defined as leisure properties. One of the neighbouring properties, ‘Solvang’, is also a recreational home and has been used as it has for 43 years. But «Solvang» was once – specifically in 1909 – built as a dwelling. The owner, Henrik P. Thommessen, who is also a member of the Left Party, now wanted to sell his leisure property. Because the property had been used as a dwelling almost 50 years ago, it didn't matter that he had actually bought the place and used it as a cabin for the last 43 years – so Lillesand meant municipality. Lillesand had introduced the obligation to live in 1985, must know. He therefore had to be so good as to find that the dwelling would enter as soon as he wanted to sell the place. These are the rules both in Lillesand and in many other coastal municipalities in Norway. This was not found in Thommess. He thought the new owners should get a concession on the property as leisure property, and that he was then paid. He made an agreement with an Oslo family to sell the place to them for 11 million. kr including a loose ear. Lillesand, on the other hand, believed that he could handle the 2 million. he would get if the land was sold as a residential property. But Thommess didn't make it. He sent in well-founded complaints and appealed the decisions to Lillesand Municipality, the County Agriculture Board, the Civil Ombudsman, the Ministry of Agriculture, etc. They all turned their thumb down and turned them down. After the government change last autumn, he once again complained to the Ministry of Agriculture. Then he got along. There had been new information in the case. After trying to sell the property as residential property and it proved impossible to obtain a price that reflected the price level of residential property in the area, long-term practice added that the new owners should be granted a concession to purchase the property as leisure property. As Minister of Agriculture, Lars Sponheim is, of course, responsible for all the decisions of the department. However, he was never himself involved in the proceedings, nor had he ever met Henrik P. Thommessen. It was the department's office that insisted that their previous decision should be reversed. And it was Sponheim's State Secretary who, at his statement in the case, agreed with the official's assessments. This matter concerns an individual matter. Nevertheless, many have indicated that the entire housing obligation scheme falls after the decision in the Lillesand case. For my part, I want to add that I wish that was right, because I believe this is a scheme that has obviously survived itself. Now, the Lillesand thing is so special that in isolation it will not necessarily create precedent. Nevertheless, this case has put so much emphasis on the unfairness and folly of the housing obligation scheme that many people now believe that it should be enough. And there I thank the representatives of the Workers' Party and the SV for their contribution to it. But what happens to the majority in Stortingen when the concession law is revised, simplified and modernised in a year remains to be seen. In the meantime, it can be a comfort to draw attention to something that many people are not really aware of. It is within the municipal self-government to liquidate this part of the housing obligation scheme. Therefore, the local authorities that have put in place such a scheme may decide to wind up the scheme for their municipality – without any interference from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1919	Let me first say that it was very pleasant that the representative Martin Engeset declared his agreement to the principle position of the Advance Party on the obligation to live. I can't remember that he voted in favour of our proposal a few days ago to get it removed, but it's always nice when you can see from the Stockholm pulpit that a committee colleague from another party actually shares our principled position. I hope that he will then work to influence the Government, which has a different position, namely to maintain the obligation to live. I wish Martin Engeset every success in that work. That's also my first point. In this case, the Committee has asked for all documents. I think it was 10 cm in the end, a huge pile of paper for one dwelling. And then you ask why our competitiveness is getting bad, and how much taxes and taxes we need. Yes, think of all the bureaucrats we've kept alive, and all the lawyers who earn money on such matters – on a question that should be entirely up to the buyer and the seller and have nothing to do with the authorities at all! We will achieve that by removing the obligation to live and letting each owner of a property decide for himself how often you live there, how you live there, and whether you rent it out or not rent it out. We get a huge simplification by removing the obligation to live. But then, of course, it's important that when it's there, it should be practiced relatively equally and fairly and fairly. That's another reason we're also absolutely for. Here it is quite obvious to me that it is proper to criticise the Ministry of Agriculture. And I say the Ministry of Agriculture, not necessarily the Minister of Agriculture. In fact, I think there's a difference between issues where it's obvious that a government council has personally made brewers, and where it's obvious that it's the administration that's done brewers without the council being informed. He's constitutionally responsible, we agree on that, but there's a difference in how many hard attacks you can make. Where the department made a mistake, one came to a situation where it was claimed from the municipality that this property with a dwelling obligation had only a price of about 2 million. NOK, and the seller said it should be approx. Six million. kr and there was a fare on it. Then it was obvious that one of these two amounts was wrong. The department failed. The department would have gone into more detail if it was 2 million. kr that was unreasonably low, or if it was the amount of 6 million. kr, a little more than what was given for the neighbouring property, which is a completely incomparable property and could not be used in that respect, as was relevant. That's where the department did a terrible job. I think that if you had examined a little bit more, you would have realized that that was the price of about 2 million. kr that would be the more natural market price. So there's absolutely reason to criticise poor treatment and poor examination of the facts. It should have been much better in the department. I also want to criticise the municipality, because the municipality had such a remarkably flexible attitude to what it was like for a dwelling or a building to be considered to be a dwelling instead of a leisure home. I asked during the hearing, and was told that as the dwelling was, it was not good enough to be a full-year dwelling, because the requirements for an all-year dwelling are actually slightly different in 2002 than they were in 1909, when this building was built. Sanitary facilities and a lot of things were not the way it was supposed to. It was estimated that there would have to be costs on this building in a range of between 50 000 and 70 000 kroner to get it up against such a standard as one can expect from an all-year dwelling. So it's going to be a moving transition. You could define any outdo as a full-year dwelling, because if you're based on it for 2 million. kr, you get a nice building. How much do you have to be able to demand from the municipality to invest in the building in order for the municipality to define it as a full-year residence? It's going to be hopeless. It's like when George Bernhard Shaw had a lovely young lady at a dinner and asked if she would go to bed with him for $1 million. kr. She said, "Yes, of course, I'm not stupid!" So he said, well, what about 500 kroner? And she said, "What do you take me for, a whore?" “Yes, we have already established that, now is the price we are negotiating,” said George Bernhard Shaw. So it's going to be with the municipality. How much should a municipality be able to charge for a poor building so that the municipality can define it as a full-year residence? That's what Lillesand Municipality tried to do. They should never have done that. It should never have been a matter of redefining the building that had been a recreational home for 40 years, to a full-year residence. The answer is: We have to get rid of this whole housing system, which is just a lawyer's food and involves increased taxes and taxes and leads to delinquency for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1937	Initially, it is tempting to note to the representative Engeset that it had helped enough to avoid a feather becoming five chickens about the council, the first time he was asked in Stortinget whether this was a decision where political management had been involved, had actually managed to provide a comprehensive and thorough answer to it. But we can leave it in that the Council of State has later solved this in an exemplary way. I am not going to repeat the rapporteur's full statement, but I want to go back to this with the determination of the price level in the area. The basis for the price level of 5 million. kr, or 6,5 million. kr, which was the fare on ‘Solvang’, on which the Ministry has based its decision, relates to a property that has not been offered for sale in the open market. What has happened is that the owners of the neighbouring property have submitted bids after the bid to the bid at last became high enough that the owner of this property, ‘Gården’, said: ‘Well, I sell, although I had not necessarily intended to do so. Furthermore, the housing obligation for the property «Gården» was fulfilled, and the question in the concession treatment that Lillesand municipality then had before it was: are we going to refuse to buy a dwelling that they want to buy for housing, because they want to buy at an excessive price? It is therefore in this context that the municipality – subject to the reservations referred to by the representative Engebretsen – agrees to the concession on the property “Gården” at a price of 5 million. kr. It cannot then be intended that the concession rules should work in such a way that the only way the municipality can ensure that it is able to meet this obligation is to say no to people who want to buy to live, if the price is too high. It's possible this is good jus. At least I think it's bad publicity. But it is such an understanding of the rules that the Council of State expressed in the hearing. It is a single matter we are now dealing with, and I hope that those who say that this matter is so special that it should be distinguished in a court of law, are right. But one of the issues here is that we see that resource-intensive individuals have an opportunity to run so many complaints that it can be difficult for a small municipality to resist. So one thing will be what is the legal relationship, another thing will be what becomes the reality when small municipalities with small processing resources are going to take care of these legal balances out in reality. It is on this basis that the Socialist Left Party wants the Government to assess a system of legal assistance to the municipalities, in the same way that it now has a pilot project in relation to the construction of the 100 meter belt along the sea. Whether a professor from the University of Oslo will be able to distinguish this matter, as it appeared during the hearing, it is not certain that it will be as easy for the case handlers in the individual municipality to take care of the housing obligation as an instrument for full-year residence, when more and more resource-intensive people want to buy up these dwellings. That is what is the problematic political reality here. Regardless of how special this case is legal, if we do not support the Stortinget now, we will be able to risk weakening the political outcome of the housing obligation as an instrument for full-year residence. At least the SV can't live with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1946	In some areas, it is necessary for municipalities to prevent houses that have previously been used as full-year residences being used as leisure homes – this in order to ensure their settlement and the creation of a living coastal environment. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about this, and it is an objective of our district policy that local communities should be alive both summer and winter. On the other hand, this case does not concern the general obligation to live. It concerns a single case and it is a single conversion decision. The fact that the Christian People's Party is a strong supporter of the system of housing does not mean that we do not guarantee the legal certainty of the individual. The decision taken by the Council of State is, in our opinion, firmly anchored in established practice for these types of cases and on the information provided by the municipality itself. Many have been afraid that this matter will create precedent, and that you are now more open to leisure homes along the coast at the expense of permanent settlement. This case will hardly change the dwelling requirement in general. To that it's too special. The Ministry of State, the Council of State and Professor Erik Boe stressed in the hearing that this case could easily be individualised. This does not mean, therefore, that with this decision we signal that municipalities can no longer claim permanent residence. As Professor Boe said at the hearing: ‘There is a very great difference between reacting to a decision that appears to be unlucky and a decision that appears to be illegal.’ The decision of the Ministry of Agriculture may not be amended. In order to be able to convert, the decision and the conversion must be illegal. It is clear that the purpose of the concession law is to prevent the transformation of houses into cabins. Had this matter been about a person who owned a house, and who thought he could get more for it if he had sold it as a cabin, then it could create a serious precedent. But this case concerns a leisure home, which was purchased as a leisure home and has been used as a recreational home for over 45 years. It will therefore not be difficult to distinguish this matter from other matters, if you are afraid of the precedent. When the von Koss case is mentioned in this context, it was about the right to refuse the concession. The Supreme Court concluded here that there is a limit on how long you can go back to require a change from a cottage to a full-year residence. In that case, it was about 25 years. So in this case from Aker Island, we're talking about 43 years. The von Koss case involved a price difference of NOK 600 000, and in this case nearly SEK 8 million. kr. It is also important to see that over 90 pst is used in the Åland Islands. of the places as recreational accommodation. The house is located in a recreational residential area, where there are elements of all-year residence. In the von Koss judgment it was a house located in the middle of an all-year residential area. There has been a lot of talk about price and fare, and it is now said that you fear that the prices in the area will be so high that ordinary people cannot afford to buy these properties. In August 2001, the tariff, as mentioned earlier, was set at 6.7 million. kr. There is a high price when you know that the property is on an island, and that the house would need a lot of cleaning. If it's a real fare, it's also hard to say, because there's a few all-year homes on the Aker Island. On the other hand, there has been a turnover of another dwelling, as mentioned earlier, namely the ‘Gården’, and the purchase price of it was as mentioned 5 million. kr. For example, when the fare for ‘Solvang’ is higher: because this property has its own shoreline. When the property ‘Gården’ was sold, the municipality of County Agriculture said that this price reflected the price level in the area. The municipality knows this area best, so the department gave their opinion when they evaluated the price. As a committee, we are also not competent to assess whether the fare is correct. Nor are the authorities responsible for determining the price at which a property is to be traded. The Christian People's Party does not want there to be only rich people who can buy cabins in attractive coastal areas, but the concession law does not give rise to saying that a price is too high. If you're going to be able to do this, you have to change the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1973	It is fully possible to have more approaches to this matter. The obligation to live as a system is one approach. There is no doubt that much of the population along the south coast is an example of the proper functioning of the housing obligation as a system. The fact that we have a zero limit, that we have been restrictive, has led us to have permanent residents in areas that would otherwise have been very likely to be used in recreational areas. Of course, I accept that some people don't think that a trend towards more leisure homes on the south coast is a problem, and that they want to accept it. But I disagree with such a description, I disagree and do not want a development that goes in that direction. And when it's also that different local authorities of different political colors think it's right and important to make sure that we have all-year homes in this area, in my opinion, it should be respected. In my opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture’s decision to reverse previous decisions on the ‘Solvang’ property includes the fact that the plug has been pulled out of this system by far. The government has now accepted that there is a price level that means that it won't be possible for people to compete the most. That the Minister of Agriculture then claims that this will not create precedent, I think for my part at best to be wishful thinking. In the open hearing held in the Committee, Professor Erik Boe stressed that this case would not create precedent because ‘Solvang’ has been used as a leisure property for so long that it is hardly comparable to other cases. But this is not what the Ministry of Agriculture has stressed. None of the correspondence between the Ministry of Agriculture and the seller and various lawyers has stressed that the dwelling has been used for leisure property. No, what the Ministry of Agriculture has stressed is the pricing of the property. And there Professor Boe took a different position when he said in his reply to the committee leader: "Yes, I fully agree with both the municipality and you, when you say it that way." And the question that was asked was: ‘The Community has stated that it becomes very difficult to oppose other persons on the basis of the requirement of equality for the law. Don't you think this is an important moment?' It seemed that the professor was an important moment, and in my opinion he took a different position when the question was about the price and not the length of the period during which this dwelling has been a leisure home. So there has been no point in the procedure. In my opinion, it is not possible to point out that this housing has been leisure property, when it is claimed that it does not create precedent, all the time it has not been an element of treatment in the department, either in 2000 or in 2002 under this government. So this is the seventh and the last one: the Council of State has taken a decision that the seller cannot be caused a significant loss by being forced to sell as a full-year dwelling. It is quite obvious that this will have consequences for future sales. It is quite obvious that this will have the consequence that municipalities will have to be more modest in terms of living and that the ministry will have to deal with other appeals in a similar way. And it's also obvious that when buyers who want to buy leisure properties see that it's actually possible to get along if you're just willing to do enough and get high enough above what's considered the normal price of all-year residences, you'll get a say in the ministry. It's perfectly obvious that it'll be price driven on these properties. The residents will not be able to compete, and the dwellings, especially the most attractive, will go to leisure properties. That's what this case is about. I think it is a pity that the Department and the Council of State have dealt with this matter in a way that will, to a large extent, tear away the basis for keeping living in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e1998	After Enoxsen's comments, it was tempting to provide some clarifications, but I will still try to stick to what I thought I would say. When this matter ends in Stortinget, we can establish three important issues: firstly, all claims and accusations of party political camaraderie are made dead and powerless. Secondly, the decision of the case will remain, and it is established that something else would be illegal. Thirdly, the case will not create precedent in terms of new legal status in the housing obligation case. Thus, the matter has landed in a way that should encourage a certain amount of reflection for many who have blown the matter up to the very large dimensions, not least in the media. It never quite made, but all the time the underlying accusation of party camaraderie, has obviously been the most important element in the fact that the matter was given large dimensions in the media over a long time, also with good help from parts of the opposition. It is quite appropriate that this matter has been mentioned by the media, and that questions have been asked. But the insinuations continued long after everyone had seen the unfairness in them. I am very happy that this is now parked too well. The two ratios may appear more controversial from the setting, all the time the Working Party and the SV actually want the Storting to request a new treatment. From the point of view of the hearing, it is a rather perceptive point of view. So you want to ask the government to consider making a clearly illegal decision. Clearly, they do not fully understand the law, or do not fully understand the meaning. I agree with the comment of the Right and the Christian People's Party that it is to distance itself from such an invitation. The Minister of Agriculture has always pointed out that the case is decided on the basis of the law in force, and not on the basis of political or other judgement. This was fully supported by Professor Erik Boe during the hearing, and there are no reasonable grounds for this. Left supports comments from Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party on page 16 of the setting: ‘In the light of these facts, these members are of the opinion that concession denial in this particular and specific individual case could be perceived as an estimate against the individual.’ There is therefore a clear majority in this Chamber in support of the views of the Minister of Agriculture in what is at the heart of the matter. With regard to the issue of precedent, there is reason to say that the Sponheim Government Council supports its view. This must be very reassuring for Lillesand Municipality and others who have feared this and who use it as the main argument in their very aggressive campaign against the Department and the Council of State. When both the government and legal experts make clear that the legal situation has not changed, this must be a pleasure, if you admit that you have made mistakes in the name of the fight. What is left in this case? A majority of this room criticises the Ministry of Agriculture’s proceedings in relation to the examination of the price and sales process, and that the case was not sent back to the first instance, the County Board of Agriculture. It is legitimately legitimate to claim it, but there is no strong and well-founded criticism. It is equally factually correct to claim that the proceedings have been sufficient and reassuring. The ministry has presented its deliberations throughout, and here the hearing showed that its choices have in no way been unambiguously critical. Just because of the unreasonable accusations of party-political camaraderie, which led this matter far out of reasonable proportion, it was natural that the Minister of Agriculture and Left-leader Sponheim needed to clarify their own role in the matter. It was unfortunately unfortunate that the internal communication failure of political leadership led to confusion about their overall role for a few days. It has been emphasised by the Council of State, and I do not need to comment on anything more than the Committee's position on that point. What is essential here is that the Minister of Agriculture has been making a steady statement on what he has said all along, namely the three aspects that I mentioned at the outset. The thing is back in its correct dimensions. It should, as I said, lead to a certain reflection. For the Left, it is nevertheless important to close the post by saying that we will fight for the obligation to live. But for us, the individual citizen's right to the state to be treated equally to the law is most important – everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2032	Let me first refer to the Committee's comments on the obligation to provide information to Stortinget and the internal handling of this matter in the political direction of the Ministry of Agriculture. As I also expressed in the Committee's open hearing on 27 May, it is important for me to stress that the information I have provided to the Stortinget, among others. in spontaneous Question Time on 20 March, has been correct. As I also pointed out in the hearing, it is clear that the internal flow of information in political direction in the Ministry of Agriculture has not been sufficiently good so that, in some cases, there could have been better and more comprehensive information on the position of political management in the matter. However, I have always stressed that the responsibility for all decisions taken in the department is mine, as is the case in this case. Then to the realities of the matter itself. On 1 March 2002, the Ministry of Agriculture converted its previous decision into a concession case concerning the property ‘Solvang’ in Åkerøya, Lillesand municipality. The change took place on the basis of new information in the case. As a consequence of the Ministry's original decision, the owner had attempted to sell the property as a full-year residence without obtaining a satisfactory price or price corresponding to the price level of similar dwellings in the area. In its original decision in the case, from 5 June 2000, the Ministry found that there was access to a claim for full-year residence on the property. This occurred after an overall assessment of the information available at that time. Nor did the Civil Ombudsman find the basis for criticising this decision. It is of central importance, however, that the ministry of previous correspondence with the Ombudsman explicitly opened up the possibility of the decision being reversed if a sales process revealed that there was no real demand for prices for which other similar properties are traded in the area. According to established practice, in order to refuse concession in matters like this, it must be demonstrated to the public that someone will take over the property in order to build it up to a satisfactory housing standard. In addition, it must be such that the property must be sold as a full-year dwelling at a price corresponding to the price level of such dwellings. This practice defines the legal basis by which the ministry is bound — both in this and in similar cases. This fact was also underlined by Professor Erik Boe at the open hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on 27 May. As far as the ministry is aware, and which was subsequently confirmed by local authorities at the hearing in the Committee on 27 May, almost no housing has been sold in the Åland Islands in recent years. Therefore, when assessing the general level of prices of dwellings in the area, significant emphasis needs to be placed on the municipality's own assessments in the context of another concession case on the island, the sale of the property "Gården" in 1998. Here the municipality explicitly stated that there was no basis for withdrawing the concession because a purchase price of 5 million kroner. kr was considered to reflect the price level of residential property in the area. This justified the municipality that there are few attractive properties with long shoreline in the market, and thus high demand. On that basis, the Ministry concluded that the fare of the property ‘Solvang’, 6,75 million. kr, was set in relation to this. Although this rate must be considered high, the Ministry, on the basis of the municipality’s opinion on the general price level, considered that the only bid for the property in the sales promotion – 2 million. kr – could not be said to reflect a reasonable level of price for the sale of that property in the housing market. In other words, the decision is based on established practice for this type of case and on information provided by the municipality itself. It is underlined in such a way that the Ministry had extensive dialogue with the municipality, i.e. a multi-month exchange of letters prior to the adoption of the decision. Despite the fact that the department here made it clear what was considered to be the central themes of the case, this exchange of letters, prior to the decision with all possible clarity, shows that even the municipality, which is supposed to have extensive knowledge of the price level of the local property market, was not able to provide any price assessment of the property in addition to that ‘the rate of NOK 6.75 million. synthesis very high»; Moreover, as mentioned earlier, the Ministry has never given any decisive attention to this tariff – other than as an expression of the relative value of ‘Solvang’ in relation to ‘Gården’. The ‘Solvang’ case is special. It is special because it is about legal access to claim full-year residence on a property that has been used as a cottage for 47 years, traded as a leisure property earlier, and which is situated on an island without a ferry service other than a school outing. At the same time, it is special because here you have an explicit statement from the municipality saying something about the price level that applies to attractive residential properties on Åkerøya. It is also particularly true that there is no market for residential property in Åkerøya. In other areas where so-called 0-frontier regulations have been introduced, there will usually be more real estate sales to deal with. Thus, it will be easier to assess the price of thread in the area. Overall, the Decision constitutes a concrete application of a legally established principle and will therefore not affect other decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2064	Whether the State Council has properly informed the Stortinget along the way can certainly be discussed. When the councillor was here in the house and answered the oral questioning, he said – and that was correct enough – that he did not know the matter. Even the Minister of Agriculture should be aware that the Stortinget was not particularly concerned about whether the person Sponheim knew the matter, but about the political leadership knew the matter. That, of course, was the question, and it will probably be an experienced parliamentarian that the Minister for Agriculture will be aware of. Now the Minister of Agriculture says this is a special case. He points out that the property has been a leisure home for so many years, and so many speakers have also spoken in the past, that it is located on an island without a fixed connection, etc., and that this records. I have not been aware that this has had any significance whatsoever for the decision of the Council of State in this matter. I have come to understand that this has been about the price, that he did not get the price that the Ministry of Agriculture found reasonable, and that that was the reason. If there is anything else, that it has been used as a long-term recreational home, etc., you can question the previous decision in the Ministry of Agriculture. Then I have to ask the Minister of Agriculture if it is such that the previous decision in the Ministry of Agriculture was not valid, because the Minister of Agriculture himself, and also his party trap Skei Grande, says that this is not a matter of political discretion. This is juss in a very narrow sense, I understand. I also have to ask the Council of State whether that is how this is real, actually juss. He's talking about established practice, and then I have to ask the Minister of Agriculture about established practice means that we're going to find similar cases with the corresponding justification for the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2080	I can only agree with the rapporteur in the view that of course it is the Minister of Agriculture, who is constitutionally responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the important thing for the Storting. The majority know only the Council of State. But the story in this case is also known. It is such that there were some major headlines that there had been some party camaraderie between the party leader of the Left, who is Minister of Agriculture, and one that – and I have confirmed that after the matter has become known – is to be a member of the party in which I am a party leader. That is why it was a point for me to engage in the question that is related to my personal view of the matter, and nothing else. It has always been an important point for me to stress that it is my responsibility, including the decisions, the balances and what is done by the whole Ministry of Agriculture, although the Minister of Agriculture is not personally involved. The questions I put to you in my article about what is special about this matter are just suitable for highlighting them as, among other things, Professor Boe stated in the hearing that it is very easy to individualise this matter. Because there has been the second important point that many people have tried to make, namely that this changes their view on housing, and that this has a strong precedent effect. It is my and the Ministry of Agriculture's opinion that it does not. It was also confirmed by Professor Boe at the hearing that it is very easy to ‘individualise this matter’, because there are many things that are special about it. It is then to say no to the subsequent use of the case by the authorities, which in that case had to lead to a significant consequence. In the decision that has been made, it is precisely the price that has been the decisive one, because when you restrict the right of residence, the person who gets the right to rule or ownership is also entitled to a real dwelling value when the dwelling is sold. It's an obligation, but it's also a right. That's what the ministry has laid down, which is established as a principle, and which is nothing new at all in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2091	Now at the end of the year, those of us who are still relatively young, are used to it at this time you get your grades. I will not try to distribute any characters to the Minister of Agriculture, but I will challenge the Minister of Agriculture to characterise the proceedings of Lillesand Municipality in the matter. As I have understood the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture has believed that there have been some weaknesses in the proceedings of the municipality. Here we are just talking about something that is at the heart of the question of whether it can in practice be created precedent from this case, namely that even if it is legal – if you have the opportunity to consult all the lawyers who have special competence – it will be clear how the case should be interpreted, it is not that for any municipality, with the small case handler resources the municipality can have, it will be just as simple. Since Sponheim, as I have understood the Council of State, has previously expressed itself relatively critical of Lillesand Municipality in parts of the handling of this matter, does not the Council of State also see the need to provide legal assistance to municipalities with concessional limits 0, in the same way that the Ministry of the Environment is attempting to do in relation to the construction of the beach area? If it is that the Council of State now wants to ensure that this matter does not create precedent, as the Council of State does not think it will, it will be the easiest way to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2098	I would like to point out that I have no need at all to characterise the proceedings of Lillesand Municipality, either with a plus or a minus in front. On the contrary, it emerged that I have given decisive attention to the procedure that Lillesand Municipality has done. For example, when one has to find out the price level in the area, and one focuses on how local authorities assess it, it is precisely the municipality that has indicated that one of the other few properties on the island sold for residential purposes reflects the price level in the area. We've stressed that there's a rate of 6.75 million. NOK, which we also thought was high, but which was determined precisely because the municipality had accepted a price level of another property of SEK 5 million. kr. It seems to be a general perception among professionals that the property ‘Solvang’ is worth more than the property ‘Gården’ and that the level is determined in a way by the municipality’s own proceedings. It is also right to state that it was the municipality's proceedings and a letter to the department that made us assume that there was a bid of 2 million. kr on the property ‘Solvang’, the highest bid submitted. It also hears that after the matter was settled, and a legally binding administrative decision was taken on 1 March, and the case had received attention, the municipality, with which the committee is known, later wrote to the department and thought that a higher bid had been made. It has later been assessed by the Department, and I understand that there are now some people who want the Department to do it again. There has been an ongoing assessment of whether there is a basis for reopening the case. It doesn't seem that far. Here we have put the decisive emphasis on the procedure that the municipality has done. Therefore, the conclusion has been as it has been, that it has not been possible for the seller to get a value on the dwelling that reflects the value of the dwelling in the area, as stated by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2111	In this reply, the Council of State says that there is a perception among professionals that ‘Solvang’ is worth more than ‘Gården’. I would like to tell the Council of State what professional assessments the Ministry has obtained to show that ‘Solvang’ is a property that is worth more than the one the Council of State compares to. The only thing I can see is made of comparison, is in a letter that the seller, Henrik P. Thommessen, wrote on 13 September 2001, describing the property "Gården" with a location that is far worse, with a small beach area outside that makes it impossible to establish berths, etc. Is it that kind of information, from a seller who is interested in getting the highest possible price for his property, the Council of State is based on its perception that this property is so much more valuable? Or is it made comparable tariffs? That's the one. The second thing I want to ask the Council of State is: when the Council of State repeatedly claims that this will not create precedent and refers to Professor Boe, I find reason to point out that the professor of the hearing repeated several times that the fact that this farm has been used for so long as it is a leisure property, makes this case easy to distinguish from other matters. That's what the professor's argument is for the reason that it's easy to separate. It is an argument that the ministry at all has not used for its reasons. On the other hand, the price has been used. Does the Council not see that these are two essential reasons, and that the price, which the Ministry has used as a justification, will be decisive in the future, and that it cannot later be justified that this was a particular case because the property has been used as a recreational home for 43 years when that reason was not used when the case was pending?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2122	When I used the word «professionals», I thought in this context of tariff people who have given a rate on this property, and thought that there was a housing rate of 6.75 million. kr. When they arrive at such a high rate, it is probably based on the municipality's own proceedings, which says that another residential property, one of the few that has been sold for housing in the area, is worth 5 million. kr, reflects the price level in the area. That's what these professionals have said. As I said in my post, this property has a higher housing value than the property «Gården». Then one can discuss the level of these residential properties. But that's the level of five million. NOK, which has been established, as the municipality has explicitly stated is the price level in the area. Some more qualified opinions in addition to that or some better professionals to make such an assessment than the local authorities and local tax people have not needed the ministry. I think it's important to distinguish between two relationships, the arguments that go into what's special for this property, and that makes it easy to individualize this property in relation to precedents or other matters, as Professor Boe said, and that's the relationship, among other things. related to the special price conditions arising from an attractive property as such, primarily for residential purposes, and that it has been a recreational home for so long. There's more than one relationship that we've been in, and that's with and emphasize it especially with this property. With regard to the decision itself in the department, why this was done, it is solely because of the price and the bearer principle that if a person who owns a property is obliged to live, which limits the value of the property, he is also entitled to receive a dwelling value. There are limits to how much value you can take from a owner of a dwelling if you are unable to obtain a dwelling value, once you have reduced the value by imposing a dwelling obligation. It is the principle that has been established and that is the decisive factor in the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2131	Let me first say a few words about this with camaraderie. There is something that at least I and my fraction have not been involved in at all. We haven't been close to this kind of primitive argument. We have a great understanding and accepted that the Council of State went out and said, I did not know this matter. I understand that there was a need to say that. What I'm saying next time, is that what was a little strange to us, was that it looked like the government was handling a case of such a principleal significance and a transformation case. That's why I say it would have been beneficial if the government council here had said that his State Secretary had dealt with the matter, when he knew it when he answered the question here in the hall. But that's it now! I asked instead, and the Council of State did not answer that question, whether this is the case with established legal practices, the legality – not the political judgement that I understand is the basis for this. I am also very uncertain about the state council now said that in this case it was the price, and the price alone, that resolved the matter. Nevertheless, one should be able to individualise this case in relation to other matters where the price is also the basis, because this case is about a dwelling that has been a leisure property for so long and so long. If it is not in the decision-making framework, how can it be justified, for example, to reject a similar case that has not been a recreational home for 45 years, but where are the price conditions the same? Finally, this at a rate: I wonder what the Council of State really has in mind about fare. For me, the fare is simply a more or less qualified guess of what the market is willing to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2140	I am pleased with the initial statement made by the case-rapporteur, and I can confirm that I did not register that it was the case-rapporteur who went on this track after what was the most difficult thing for the Council of State when this took off as a matter, namely the accusation of party camaraderie. There are quite a number of others with significant influence that have claimed in this debate. When an administrative matter like this, where the competence of the government apparatus and the administration, becomes a matter that ends up in the Stortinget, the most important thing for me, and the most important thing about this matter, has been to clarify and just put these accusations to death, and I am pleased to be done today. It's like that, and I think that's got to be clear to most people when you go into this case, that it's exactly the price conditions of this property that have been very special here, and the huge cracks that we're talking about here. A neighbouring property, which is not an agricultural property, but a dwelling with a dwelling value, has been sold for 5 million. kr. The property we're talking about here has obviously been assessed by professionals to be worth more than the property where the municipality believes that 5 million. kr is an expression of a proper housing value. So on the one hand, a price level in the range of 5 to 7 million. kr – a fare that I agree with is one, we get to believe, professionally qualified guessing about what the property is worth – and on the other hand what is the actual offer, namely 2 million. kr. Here there's a huge difference of one hundred, yes, several hundred percent, and it's this gap that makes the principle of law break in, where the seller of this property cannot be required to sell it cheaper than what reflects the housing value in the area. It's a kind of security you have when you're under the obligation to live and own a property. There are, as it were, limits on how low a property may be sold under such conditions. It is the rule of law that has been and has been decisive here. It is so special for this property that you have to look long before you find others is the department's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2147	Let me also first say that the party association of the seller and the Minister of Agriculture has not at all mattered to my assessment of this matter. When I first took this up in the spontaneous question hour with the Prime Minister present, and this matter became known in the media, I also did not know that Thommessen is or has been a member of the Left. But back to the Council of State's reply to me in the previous row: it's true that tariff people have valued this property at a value of 6.75 million. kr, but my point was that when the Council of State now claims that there are professionals who have assessed these two properties very differently, my question to the Council of State is: What information does the Council of State have that suggests that they have been assessed differently? I can't see that it's been using the same valuer on both of these properties, and that comparable values have been taken into account. What has been done is that the value of the sale has been taken into account on the ‘Garden’ and then it has been used as the basis for the fare at ‘Solvang’. So this is done after Henrik P. Thommessen has given the information that is attached to the last letter from the Ministry of Agriculture. This property – ‘Gården’ – is situated «inside the island, without the view of the sea, without the evening sun, not its own brow, and with a sea line so full of wood and deep seabed that those who in their time used the place of permanent residence did not find it necessary to try to build their own brow on the 200 m shoreline». So a negative description of another property that has only one purpose, to get up the fare on its own property. So it's the municipality that has established this price level. In a letter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on 22 April of this year, the local councillor in Lillesand wrote that there was no statement about what has been the price of residential property in the municipality and that “there has not been any brokerage of residential property for over DKK 4 million in Lillesand”. It ends with saying: ‘The retail price of residential property in Lillesand will be between 1,5 and 2 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. How does this harmonize with what the Council of State now claims to be the price of the crowd in the area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2166	It's going to be dangerous to repeat myself with many of the same numbers, but that's actually what this case has been about all along. It's like there's a rate on this property, which is valued at 6.75 million. kr, which is higher than what is known to be the sum of sales of a residential property in the neighborhood, and which the municipality has said is an expression of the property value in the area. This means that there are professionals who have assessed this property to be more valuable than the comparable property, or the property that has been subject to concession treatment. No emphasis has been placed on what one of the owners had to think about the attractiveness of his property in relation to a neighbouring property. There will probably be many different opinions around many Norwegian neighbourhoods. The emphasis here is on the assessment of tariff people. Then the decisive level becomes the relative difference between these two properties, and then it will be the municipality's statement, through concessional treatment, that 5 million. kr is an expression of the housing value in the area, i.e. on this island. That the councillor has these points of view in other areas of the municipality is okay, but here the municipality itself has established that this is an expression of the housing value in this area. There's an assessment the department hasn't found it right to go out. Then I think it's essential to realize that it's just the low value of 2 million. kr which is the central one, and the big gap up to the two number values of 5 million. SEK and 6,75 million. kr which is the central one. There had to be a significantly higher offer for the purchase of the property as a dwelling, before one has not had to use this legal principle of the right to obtain an actual dwelling value when a seller sells a non-residential property.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2174	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2179	The working party and SV quickly and intuitively found out that they were going to gas on this matter. Today, it turns out to be a rather excellent example that intuition is the ability of some to misjudge a situation quickly, even though the representative has begun to increase the volume of voice to cover it gradually. Parliamentarism can be said to mean that those who have the majority at any time decide that they are also the wisest. The number of committees and proposals of the Labour Party and the SV under I, which we have not discussed today, is a talking example of that and of how the two parties disregard power distribution and constitutional rules and encourage a Council of State to commit a possible unlawful act. Empty barrels fall the most, and the highest, especially in a slide stuttering room. The sport carried out by the Workers' Party and SV here assumes that one is either – as Carl I. Hagen actually is – good at diving, or – as for the Workers' Party – has a well-developed ability to land in space without paying attention to it. This specific case has shown how wrong it can be if the concession rules are enforced with the starting point of democracy of the Workers' Party and the SV. If someone had referred to this starting point as e.g. envy put in a political function, I would have trouble contradicting the one who might have said it. I didn't, of course, because it would be seen as an unparliamentary language. I'm going to repeat some things here that have obviously passed the representative Engebretsen's house. The basis for the original concession denial during the time of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was entirely in the frontier country as to what the concession rules can be considered to apply at all for the purposes of the concession rules. The Thommes as owner had legitimate expectations when he acquired a property that had been in use as leisure property since 1955, and which he himself used exclusively as leisure property for a 40-year period. It was located in an area that could rightly be called a recreational residential area, with elements of all-year residence, where the municipality, with respect to reporting, had not been precisely characterised consistently in its proceedings, and in reality not too much effort has been made to facilitate all-year residence, and where a large number of islanders have previously signed up to a bulging criticism of a vulnerable municipality. So in this situation, under Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the ministry refuses the request that Thommessen should be allowed to sell his property to what it has been used exclusively as since 1955, namely, leisure property. These are the conditions that the Workers' Party, SV and now the representative Enoxen are trying to leave that has been disregarded, both when assessing whether the conditions for the concession obligation are met, i.e. staying within the scope of the concession rules at all, and in the discretionary assessment of whether to grant a concession, when an additional element occurs and which together with those other elements – not in isolation but in combination – forms the basis for the conversion decision. I'm not going to accuse the representative of being thin, but if the representative of Engebretsen had attended the hour when Professor Erik Boe gave an ever-low course in administrative law and how conversion practices are, this debate would probably be quite different. But it's just to record that these two parties disagree with the new conclusion, and now you're trying to be a kind of special court here by writing a real request to the Council of State under I which, as mentioned above, may be a recommendation to commit an unlawful act. My specific question to the Workers' Party and Kjell Engebretsen is: does not the Workers' Party see any fundamental concerns in this, something that has been done in similar cases in the past and in an apartment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2194	The next speaker is Odd Roger Enoksen. For its part, the President sees no reason why one should have to be provoked so late in the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2199	The degree of provocation has nothing to do with the time of day, but I'll be brief. The Council of State says that the seller's description of the neighbouring property has not been used as a basis for the department's assessment. Then I have to say that I find it remarkable that there is just a small section from a description given by the seller of the neighbouring property, the department finds reason to include in its letter to the law firm Haavind Vislie DA dated 1 March 2002 – just that description of the neighbouring property – as a basis for determining the value of the property «Solvang». And the letter also states: ‘...the Ministry cannot see that it has attempted to meet the interrelationship between the Solvang fare and the farm price, nor the Thommessen description of it. On this basis, one cannot ignore the fact that Agder Takst Team's assessment of Solvang as a more attractive residential property than the farm is right." I have to say that this is a very blatant procedure and a review of a matter which, after all, is very important in relation to the Housing Institute, and which I am absolutely convinced will create precedent in future matters as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2213	I felt a little dedicated to the student community, and it could be festive in late night hours, of course. No, I do not see any concern about the proposal we have to the Council of State, because what has happened is, among other things, as the Council of State itself has said, that there have been indications that the seller may have received higher bids than what the department has done and has taken on board. If this is the case, it can be assumed that the decision has been taken on a false or failed basis. Of course, that would be enough for the Council of State to make an assessment of this matter. The same applies to the seller's attempt to sell. It is a little unclear whether sufficient work has been done by the department to verify the efforts made by the seller here. And so it could be that some of the basis for this decision is a little bit of a failure. So if that were the case, it would be possible for the Council of State to make such an assessment of the decision taken. If there were no grounds for doing so, the Council of State would not reverse the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2220	Ronald Reagan once said that politics is the world's second oldest profession. When I hear Kjell Engretsen try to answer some questions here about I, which he competently will not answer – some hard explanations of what you think about the proposal – I find that the representative Mr Engretsen does not want to answer the question of what is actually included in his own proposals. What does the Workers' Party actually add to the concept of ‘assessment’? And what real opportunities does the Commission have for the conversion of the recasting decision, which is implicit in the Workers' Party's proposal for a decision and the Committee's position? I note that the Labour Party does not want to respond. And even though the Labour Party's behaviour in this matter is appropriate to the second part of Reagan's quote, namely that politics is not only the world's second oldest profession, but also has great similarities with the oldest, it would have been possible for the Engreitsen to give some principal considerations on what I almost have to assume then is the intention that the proposal should be taken seriously at all, namely that the Council of State should take a new decision in this matter. Or is it just that you develop suggestions that you never know how to implement in advance, but that are enough for some journalists to use a little pressure on it, as long as they don't check it out more closely? Siri Hall Arnøy was previously concerned about the legal expertise of small municipalities. To be honest with you, reporting is crocodile tears, because the question is, what is it that creates the enormous need for this bureaucracy and legal insight? Well, that's just the huge hang of trying to regulate itself to the kingdom of heaven on earth. The representative Enoxsen, like Engebretsen, also tends to interpret as a certain person reads a certain book. It's not like Professor Eik Boe said in an open hearing that it could create precedent. It is that in this geographical area it could be bad practice if the principle is not applied here, that is, there may be problems. I see that the Workers' Party also obviously has good skills in its own eyes as appraisers. Of course, for a party where imagination has never been small in finding ways to find tax objects, it's clear that you have to know your tax items inwards close to the nearest knuckle and swampy terrain when assessing fare. So finally, in this case, with the rationale for the conversion decision. It's not like you're just throwing, to put it mildly, the papers in the trash and not adding to what's happened before, for example. That this is about a recreational home that's been there since 1955. Of course, that's the basis. What I would recommend both the Workers' Party and the Enoxsen to do is to compare how, for example. in a judgment of the Court of First Instance. The reason here does not always come out clearly, all the moments do not come out clearly, but they are there. I also believe that the representative of the former Council of State, Mr Enoxen, is well aware that administrative decisions do not necessarily give the reason for a clear-cut line, like the Supreme Court rulings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2233	At least let me say from my side that I don't think it's been the intention of the minority through this proposal, that, as I understand it, it won't be a majority for today, to oblige the Council of State to do something that is a violation of Norwegian law, but in the context that it does so per. On 1 March, a valid administrative decision was taken, assessing whether this could still be information that should have been known before 1 March, and which would have been the basis for making other assessments. This assessment has been carried out on an ongoing basis after 1 March, including: based on a request from the municipality to re-assess this on the basis of an information provided by the municipality that there was a higher bid. So here there's been an ongoing assessment of whether there was a basis for resuming this based on information that we should have known about. There has been a correspondence between the parties to clarify this, and I think I must be able to say in this room today that it is, as far as we can see, through this procedure and the assessment that has been made continuously since this letter came from the municipality, no reason to say that it is based on the law to reverse this decision, and that is the situation as it is today. I hear the representative Enoch is very clear that he believes he has come to the answer as to whether this should have a precedent effect. I can say that in terms of the department's assessment, the competent lawyers there, with experience in a large number of these kinds of cases, are very clear that this is such a special case that if the authorities, the local authorities around the municipalities, want to individualize this case, then it is fully possible, and it is the department's assessment that this should be justified. I also have to say that it is my opinion and the government's view that the housing institution we have should also be retained, and we have a concession hearing out now looking at various adjustments to this, raising some issues that have been difficult for the municipality to deal with, to see if it is necessary to make adjustments here. It will be on a general basis an occasion for the Storting later to discuss the entire Housing Institute and its arrangements, and then, if necessary, to introduce policies to the juxtaposition that we have kept to in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2242	There should actually be limits to what one should be provoked to go to the pulpit. But I still have to say to the representative Dahl, who in one sentence accuses others of interpreting as a certain person reads a certain book, and who in the next sentence clearly has enormously greater knowledge of the intentions of the Workers' Party and the SV behind the proposals we put forward than the Workers' Party and SV have explained: it becomes quite strange. With regard to the housing obligation and any crocodile tears from SV, because we actually want the municipalities to receive support for this scheme in a good way and receive legal support that allows the municipalities to use the housing obligation as an instrument, I register that the representative Dahl is going hard against this regulatory system. But the representative Dahl is well aware that he is also going hard against the government that we have, which actually wants to keep living as an instrument? The representative Dahl must call it crocodile tears. But we in SV want at least that once we have regulations in this area, we have to make sure that the municipalities have the opportunity to ensure equality of law and get the opportunity to actually use this instrument that Stortinget wanted to give them, and that it is not just a paper regulation where they have the opportunity to buy help from resource-intensive lawyers, get what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 31. [[See page 3412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2268	During the discussion at Odelstinget, the Council of State, Solberg, took a very positive view of this proposal and said that she would aim to return to the budget proposal for the autumn with a presentation of how this could be done. In the light of the positive response she gave, I would ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-two. [[See page 3413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2292	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2309	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2326	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2334	Then we are ready to go to voting in the cases 1–35 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2341	In the course of the debate, 30 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Marit Nybakk on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 4, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Socialist Left-wing proposals No. 5-7, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Central Party proposals No. 8 and 18, from Kjetil Bjørklund on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 9-17, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities 19–25, by Kjetil Bjørklund on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 26-30, from Odd Roger Enoxen on behalf of the Centre Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 26-30, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner1731Hearer1Operating expenditure increased by 107 000 000 from NOK 4 354 933 000 to NOK 4 461 933 000» Proposal No. 27 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Crones1732Marine defence1Operating expenditure increased by 86 000 000 from NOK 2656 079 000 to NOK 2742 079 000» Proposal No. 28 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Crones1760New acquisition of equipment, new buildings and new installations, may be transferred45Larger acquisitions and maintenance, increased by 590 000 000 from NOK 6 266 846 000 to NOK 6 856 846 000» Proposal No. 29 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner1734Home Protection1Operating expenditure increased by 135 000 000 from NOK 699 842 000 to NOK 834 843 000» Proposal No. 30 sounds: «The reduction shall require that repurchase agreements continue to be subject to political treatment.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2546	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19, 20, 23, 24 and 25, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate other relevant options for the location of FIST-H, including the arrangement of FIST-H under the sixth division. Brigade 12 will be completely destroyed. It is assumed that the Government will return to Stortinget with the case in an appropriate manner during 2002.’» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The investment in new MTB boats and NSM marine target missiles is scrapped and the contracts terminated.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to initiate the introduction of locks on HV weapons in private homes.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «Cape.Postal Purpose:CronesExpenditure:1731The army1Operating expenditure is increased by 50 000 000 from NOK 4 354 933 000 to NOK 4 404 933 0001732Marine defence1Operating expenditure, increased by 50 000 000 from NOK 2 656 079 000 to NOK 2 707 003 0001733Air defence1Operating expenditure, increased by 100 000 from NOK 3 751 976 000 to NOK 3 851 976 0001760New acquisitions of equipment, new buildings and new installations, may be transferred45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, increased by 115 000 from NOK 6 266 846 000 to NOK 6 381 846 000 » Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up a public body to review the Defence Information Procedures and Principles for Publicity. The Committee shall make proposals for improvements which may lead to a better response to the public’s needs to know how the Norwegian Defence Agency works.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2692	The proposals are then put to the vote. 21 and 22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish as a principle that civil competence and management shall have a majority of project and logistic organisations in the Defence, i.e. FLO [[with subdivisions]] Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to conduct a review of all project organisations in Defence to assess who should be given increased competence and whether more such organisations should be placed directly under the FLO.’ The coastal party has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2716	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–17, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to base its defence structure on: 1st@item: inlistbox Norway further participates in the Viking submarine project.2. The three inland waterway vessels are retained.3. The coastal chain in South Norway is maintained.4. Olav protection consists of Orlogsstation.5. The strategic and operational utility of self-repair and maintenance capacity of large coastguard ships and frigates in neighbourhoods is investigated before final decision on long-term solution is finalised.6. A Maritime Monitoring Centre shall be established at Haakonsvernnern.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote its own proposal regarding the participation in and acquisition of new fighter aircraft for the Norwegian Air Force.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘New fighter aircraft to replace the current F-16 fleet are acquired outside and in addition to the normal budget framework for the Defence.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘New transport aircraft to replace the current C-130 fleet are acquired outside and in addition to the normal budget framework for the Defence’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘Haslemoen clay is maintained until further notice. Decision of the Grand Duchy of 13 June 2001.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The volume of repurchases related to the acquisition of new aeroplanes is assessed on the basis of the current pressure on the Norwegian economy.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and submit proposals for a 4-year long-term budget for Defence, based on the adaptation of a similar system in Denmark.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The size suggests a frame of NOK 123,6 billion. for the defence budget for the period 2002 to 2005.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The 2002 State budget amends as follows: Chapter.Objective:CronsExpenditure:1731The army1Operating expenditure increased by 610 000 000from NOK 4 354 933 000 from NOK 4 964 933 000 from 1732The marine defence1Operating expenditure increased by 360 000 from NOK 2 647 003 000 to NOK 3 007 003 0001733The air defence1Operating expenditure increased by 3 90 000 000 from NOK 3 691 716 000 to NOK 4 081 716 0001734The protection of the environment1Operating expenditure increased by 366 415 000 from NOK 699 342 000 to NOK 1 065 757 0001760New acquisitions of equipment and construction and new installations can be transferred45Increasing equipment acquisitions and maintenance increased by 1 366 585000 from NOK 6 266 846 846 000 to NOK 7 633 431 0001791 The Coastal Party has announced their support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2969	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop working with the Eastern Region. No new training fields are installed for any weapons branches. Instead, agreements are concluded with natural cooperation countries on the common use of training fields where necessary.’;» The coastal party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e2986	Then we vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals for the maintenance of Haslemoen, with a view to rational exploitation and coordination of resources between Haslemoen and Terningmoen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3001	Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3032	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out a more comprehensive investigation into the proposal to establish a third category of protection obligations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3047	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner1734Home Protection1Operating expenditure increased by 50 000 000 from NOK 699 842 000 to NOK 749 842 000» The coastal party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3099	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The co-location of the Defence Staff and the Ministry of Defence is located in existing buildings on Huseby.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The plans for new administrative buildings on Akershu’s attachment for up to 430 persons – to be scrapped’.» The Coastal Party will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3242	Here, the Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3254	The Labour Party is also in favour of these four posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3261	Then we vote again, since the President has given the wrong information.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3360	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3379	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3413	The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3442	Here it's going to be gravy pointwise. First we vote over point 1. Here, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3456	President! We have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3461	I'm sorry, the president wasn't informed of that. Then it'll be mooted again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3473	So it goes over point 2 of the VI. The Central Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3487	It's now going to add up to point 3. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3508	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3563	Here the Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3800	During the debate, Mr Jacobsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a regulatory framework to prevent Norway from buying armaments from countries that are at war or civil war, or where war or civil war threatens. The legislation shall have the same boundaries in relation to countries as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs guidelines for applications for export of arms, materials and military technologies and services.’;» An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e3813	The President will make a note of an error in the setting: it says Document No. 8:119, but it shall be Document No. 8:129.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4139	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. Proposal No. I, the Group of the European People's Party, and the Socialist Left, have already voted for it during the debate. Then the rest is left. proposal No 2, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 3-5, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3–5, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to withdraw the appeal on the revocation of the security clearance referred to in the decision of the EOS Committee for the years 2000 and 2001’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The cancellation requests the Government to return the security clearance to the cancellation.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to open negotiations with the respondent for compensation for the wronged Ministry of Defence’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4177	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide the necessary investigations to prevent others from being exposed to the same situation as the cancellation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4355	In the course of the debate, Mr Kvakkestad put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the former Air Force School Centre in Stavern to be at the disposal of the Ministry of Justice.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to locate the Police College, with the exception of the Department of Bodø, to Stavern, and that the activity in Oslo, Kongsvinger and Nord-Odal be closed when the co-location is a reality.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4388	In the course of the debate, Mr Kvakkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Authority asks the Government to facilitate the provision of water cannon as a legal instrument for the police in the fight against violent demonstrations or riots.IIThe Government authorises the Government to acquire/provide water cannons for possible use in Oslo, in connection with possible demonstrations in June 2002.IIIThe Government asks the Government to award operational police officers and women telescopic baton and pepper spray as part of its standard equipment to combat criminals.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4429	The President makes it clear that we are now going to vote on a number of issues that have been sent from Odelstinget. The President will try as we go forward, to explain who are the proposers, and that will then be evident from who votes in favour and who will normally vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4436	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Workers' Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2002: «The Government asks the Government to amend the rules on free legal aid so that, when a party is admitted to free trial in child distribution proceedings, the other party shall also be free of charge if his income does not exceed the income limit for free legal aid by NOK 100000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4454	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2002: ‘The Government requests that the amount of revenue be increased by the Government in order to receive free legal aid to NOK 250000 from 1 January 2003.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4472	There is a vote on the proposal by André Kvakkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Odelsting on 10 June 2002: ‘The Government requests the increase in income limits in order to receive free legal aid to NOK 230000 from 1 January 2003.’;» It is assumed that the proposal will receive subsidiary support from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left when the vote as it has taken place in the previous cases is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4492	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement the amendment to remove excesses of free legal aid by 1 January 2003 at the latest.’ As far as the President understands, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4512	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 10 June 2002: ‘The size request of the Government to determine the income limit for the receipt of free legal aid in child distribution matters should be higher than the normal income limit, as well as the consequences of a higher income limit for this type of action. The Government is also asked to promote concrete solutions to a better dispute resolution for child distribution cases with NOU 1998:17 Child distribution cases as a starting point.’ It is the Labour Party, the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left that support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4532	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for a police receipt scheme to ensure that persons visited receive an on-the-spot receipt, showing the type of check, date of check, time, place and service number of the person controlling.’ In the course of the debate, the Progress Party has indicated its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4552	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary proposals to increase the penalties for the most serious criminal offences in the penal code from 21 years in prison to 30 years in prison.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4570	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to limit the right of the courts to impose conditional penalties in cases of serious violence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4588	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose amendments to the Arms Act so that the approval of weapons must be renewed every 5 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4606	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Arms Regulation in order to require 6 months of active membership of gunfighters’ teams before consenting to the acquisition of rifles.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4625	The vote will take place on the proposal submitted by Mr Jan Simonsen from the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The government is asking the Government to make the necessary proposals to punish deliberate killing with life imprisonment and to punish deliberate killing with imprisonment for up to 30 years’ time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4641	The vote will take place on the proposal submitted by Mr Jan Simonsen from the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so as not to be able to impose conditional penalties on serious acts of violence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4657	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary legislative changes so that space listening can be used for the investigation of criminal offences related to the criminal law § 147a and 147b.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4675	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Inga Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 12 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to work to ensure that the CTC, the United Nations Counter Terrorism Committee, is given human rights competence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4708	During the debate, 19 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3-6, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 7–17, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 18 and 19, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of permanent cooperation between teacher training institutions with the specialised centres of competence in order to enhance the competence of basic literacy, writing and mathematics training.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The compulsory subjects of general teacher training shall be pedagogy with 60 credits, mathematics with 30 credits and Norwegian with 30 credits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4745	Proposals Nos. 7–17, from the Party of Advancement and the representative of Jan Simonsen, to voting. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise teacher training in line with the new degree system, so that the Bachelor’s training provides the competence to teach at 1st to 4th grade and that the Master’s degree confers the competence to teach at all class stages.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment by agreements of institutions which train teachers with a necessary number of kindergartens and schools in order to ensure good practice for students through education according to criteria given by NOKU.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate a system of certification of teachers after a year’s work as a teacher from completed teacher training according to criteria given by NOKU.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present to the Storting a research-based evaluation of the conversion of teacher training.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The decision asks the Government to make the necessary changes to Section 9 and Section 10 in order to remove the so-called competence regulation upon the next revision of the Training Act.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘1. The current provision on dimensioning of teacher training is repealed.2. The government is asking for the necessary proposals to be put in place to provide input-driven funding in higher education too. ‘... Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to ensure that student loans are also subject to tax deductions on the same basis as interest.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise teacher training in such a way that, in the first three years of teaching, compulsory education is conducted with 180 study credits divided as follows: pedagogics 30, management 30, Norwegian 35, mathematics 35, basic reading, writing and mathematics 20 and KRL 30 study credits.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «By the end of 2003, the Government asks the Government to present its own case on vocational training with emphasis on real skills.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests notification of ICT use in the education sector.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up its own continuing training offers which qualify for guidance functions at school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4819	Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the follow-up of trials on school contracts in practical training, with a view to doing so as the main model of practical training.’ The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4836	Proposals Nos. 3, 5 and 6, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to pool and systematise the experience of various pilot projects in order to increase the recruitment of students with a minority language background, so that these measures can be extended to include several teacher training institutions.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch pilot projects in which part of the practice of vocational training can be taken up in the music and cultural schools.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to pool responsibility for national planning and coordination of training provision for teachers at one national body, such as the Learning Centre.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4863	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that kindergarten and school owners are offered cooperation with teacher training institutions for the guidance of newly-trained teachers, with a view to offering such a scheme to all newly-trained teachers by 2004.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an obligatory escalation plan to strengthen the training of teachers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4892	The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4921	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Jan Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The Government is asked to submit legislative proposals by the end of the 1st half of 2003 on the basis of Decision XIV/JHA. S. No 337 on the Quality Reform of Higher Education: ‘The Government asks the Government to draft a proposal for a common law for State and private institutions in the field of higher education.’» [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4939	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Jan Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The Grand Duchy presupposes that private colleges which are currently entitled to graduate education or which provide vocational training in accordance with Section 9 of the Law on Private Higher Education will be institutionally accredited colleges.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4957	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the representative Jan Simonsen, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on economic equality between public and private higher education provision. It is assumed that, where appropriate. public contributions to the research activities of institutions shall be financed on their own initiative and, in other words, the financing arrangements shall be based mainly on unit prices per unit. students whose weights and study progress are also included. Furthermore, it is assumed that such a case will be submitted at the latest in the context of the 2003 State Budget.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e4996	The Committee's position I is a transmission proposal in its form and the President proposes that it be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e5018	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Odd Roger Enoksen, on behalf of the Central Party, from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 14 June 2002. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government facilitate tests with a locally set date for the local authority. The tests must allow the local authority to set the date of local elections within a limited period of time.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e5033	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine which provisions or arrangements can be established to ensure the necessary gender distribution among the political bodies.’ This proposal is behind the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e5053	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider the necessary legislative amendments to the municipal law provisions on exemptions, leave, etc. with a view to clarification and uniform enforcement of the legislation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e5069	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the name of the lot of lists is also shown in the form of Braille.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19-2.ana.ud496e5089	There is no record.
