ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e36	Honourable co-representatives! Former Eleonore Bjartveit is dead, 78 years old. Eleonore Bjartveit was born on July 11, 1924, in Alta, Finland. In 1951 she was a fully trained doctor. That same year she married her Kjell. As a doctor she worked several places, and combined this with having four children. She had special training in rehab medicine as well as in geriatrics. Among other things, a group of composers has the work of Gaustad Hospital, Landeskogen Sanatorium and Kongsberg Hospital. After this, she started working at the State Recruitment Institute, where from 1960 she was also superior. From 1962 she worked as an assistant at the Oslo Health Council. Eleonore Bjartveit has had a number of trusts in both public and voluntary Norway. Among other things, she has host of the Furuset Community Council and alternate of the State Foreign Affairs Council. With Eleonore Bjartveit's departure, a long and varied political working day is also over. Her political commitment began in the mid-1970s, first as a member of the Social Committee in the Municipality of Oslo from 1976. In 1980 she became a member of Oslo City Council, and from 1986 she was a municipal councillor in Oslo. In 1981 she became vice-representative of Oslo at Stortinget. She met as the representative of Kåre Kristiansen while he was the state councillor of the Willoch government. In 1989 she was elected permanent representative of Oslo. As a representative, she was vice president of Odelstinget, and she represented the Christian People's Party in the Social Committee, the Justice Committee and the Municipal Committee. When the Syse government was formed, Eleonore Bjartveit became the State Council, first in the Ministry of Culture and Science, then in the Ministry of Church and Culture. In the 1993 elections, she did not re-elect, but continued to make an effort in various committees and selections, including: in the Christian People's Party Control Committee. Eleonore Bjartveit was able to combine being willful with a personal modesty not so often encountered. One was never in doubt about what she meant, but she had no need to highlight her own person. She was kind and approachable to co-representatives and colleagues, even though some shyness could also be noticed in her. Eleonore Bjartveit was a resourceful and thorough politician. With her 78 years, she had a varied and exciting life, where there was room for both family, professional life and political tasks. With Eleonore Bjartveit's departure, a long and varied political working day is over. Eleonore was a good person. We remember Eleonore Bjartveit with deep respect and gratitude and shines peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e69	The representatives of Åse Wisløff Nilssen, Olav Akselsen, Haakon Blankenburg and Per Erik Monsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Arne Sortevik from 15 October onwards and until further notice from the representative André Kåkkestad on leave on 15 and 16 October to attend a conference on the Stability Pact under the auspices of the Council of Europe in Albania from representatives Einar Holstad and Ågot Valle on leave from 15 October to 17 October, both to attend the Parliamentary Conference on corruption in Ottawa On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave. For Akerhus County: Eldbjørg Lundby and Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Jon Koløy and Ragna Flotve
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e128	Eldbjørg Lundby, Harald Espelund, Jon Koløy and Ragna Flotve are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e136	The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e139	On behalf of Inger S. Enger, Odd Roger Enoxsen and myself, I will be allowed to make proposals to establish a centre for environmental monitoring near the Snow White field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e144	Grethe Fossli will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e148	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Sylvia Brustad, Marit Arnstad, Åslaug Haga, Inger S. Enger, Siri Hall Arnøy, Heidi Sørensen, Inge Ryan and myself, I would like to propose measures to facilitate the increased use of zero-emission cars in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e153	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e167	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 159]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e187	For 1 1⁄2 years, the Bank of Norway has been guiding monetary policy according to its new mandate. The new mandate was a total shift of focus, by the replacement of the old fixed-rate regime by a mandate that put low inflation at the top. Before the government proposed this, it was only the Progress Party in the Stortinget that had called for a similar conversion. The change also led to greater independence for the Bank of Norway, an independence de facto had practiced a period under the new governor. The mandate of May 2001 gives the Bank the top responsibility for monetary policy, inspired by similar changes in monetary policy in many countries over the last few years. This means that today it is Norway’s Bank that sets the interest rate completely independently of what the Ministry of Finance had to think about the matter. Or as stated in the mandate: ‘Norges Bank shall be responsible for the operational implementation of monetary policy.’ The mandate further states that monetary policy should stabilise the national and international value of the crown and support fiscal policies by contributing to stabilising the development of production and employment. This shall be done by targeting a low and stable inflation rate where the target is an annual growth in consumer prices of «over time close to 2,5 pst.». The new system has obvious weaknesses, which have become very clear during the first year. I'll briefly take three of these weaknesses. In summary, the criticism can be expressed as follows: unpresist, undemocratic and with lack of overall assessment. The first weakness is that the adjustment of interest rates is a small, non-comprehensive instrument if the pressure in the economy is high. It looks good at these times when there is pressure in some sectors, while others are struggling with increasing unemployment. A general interest weapon affects all equally, regardless of whether there is pressure or unemployment in each sector. It affects individuals, businesses and not least municipalities. Large parts of Norwegian economic life are about the domestic market where pressure is currently high, while those who are currently struggling are those in export-related activities. Here, high interest rates double by the fact that the interest rate itself is a significant burden, and by the fact that high interest rates strengthen the value of the crown. This is the export industry that notices. A one-sided emphasis on inflation thus gives completely different results in different parts of the economy. The value of the crown has increased by more than 10 pst. since the New Year, which is a significant additional load. It is difficult to compensate for this extra burden on prices in international markets. The Minister of Finance's party trap in the central government of the Right, Jens Petter Ekorenes, from the furniture factory with the same name, says this in Dagbladet on 21 August this year: ‘Put the rent down, stop the bloodbath.’ He wants monetary policy to focus on criteria other than inflation. He goes on to say: ‘Norges Bank’s monetary policy has tragic consequences for industry and districts. It's turned the Norwegian krona into a speculative currency. The high price of the crown results in a bloodbath that we can't possibly be served with." The alternative to a general rise in interest rates is to tighten through fiscal policies where the pressure is high – which the Government does not choose to do. On the contrary, it tightens in, but not necessarily where the pressure is high. It tightens up public consumption in the municipalities, and it tightens up for those who have the least. The other obvious weakness of today's system is that it doesn't take into account what politicians might think. Given a situation of high unemployment where it would be appropriate to stimulate the economy, the Bank of Norway will have a mandate to review decisions by setting up interest rates. In other words, the system that is established is freed from the political system and thus undemocratic in its nature. This means that the Minister of Finance is primarily responsible only for fiscal policy, not for monetary policy. This means that economic policy does not necessarily have to be linked and drawn in the same direction. The Bank of Norway may appear to be an opponent, not a co-player. This is obviously unfortunate. That the Board of Directors of the Bank of Norway should have greater power than those such as: Sitting in this room, is per definition is very difficult to understand. The third obvious weakness, and what is perhaps the most controversial, is that one must always rely on the discretion exercised by the bank. This judgement is subject to justified criticism. The mandate explicitly states that it should support production and employment. This is clearly something on which the bank has not given decisive attention. In an era of increasing unemployment and the deflagration of industrial production, this part of the mandate seems not to be part of the reality picture at all. The Bank of Norway chooses to interpret the mandate orthodox and with little flexibility. When the interest rate was set up on the summer, the reason was that the inflation in the two-year term would be higher than 2.5 pst., but not very much – the bank itself suggested 2.75 pst. In other words, the central bank chose a literal understanding of the mandate. And the special thing is, this is not in line with what is the Finance Ministry's pronounced policy in this area. In the revised national budget for this year, the Ministry of Finance writes: ‘It is expected that, as a general rule, the growth of consumer prices will be within a range of +/– 1 percentage point around the price increase target.’ Or, to put it another way, the Ministry of Finance believes that it is natural to interpret the mandate within a margin of inflation from 1.5 p.m. up to 3.5 pst. In other words, the Bank chooses to disregard what is recommended by the Ministry of Finance and to give a unilateral emphasis to an orthodox understanding of the mandate. This is very unfortunate, and it marks all the borrowers of the country, and not least the export industry notes this strongly. The first sentence of the mandate further states that the objective of monetary policy is a stable national and international currency. This can definitely not be what the bank has stressed, once the currency has strengthened by more than 10 pst. since the new year, but this is the whole purpose and purpose of the monetary policy regulation. It is perhaps this that is most serious – to place one factor so strongly at the expense of all other conditions in the economy. And then it's going to go wrong. On the one hand, to blame for lack of restraints or to blame for a costly wage settlement, and therefore to say that inflation would not decrease without a general tightening of the economy, is wrong. There is no secret that SV believes that the mandate and interpretation by the Bank of Norway are wrong. I would think that several now see obvious weaknesses in the system established for a small country with its own currency. There must be the whole of the economy, at the end of the day, the most important thing, that the different sectors of the economy are moving in the same direction. The mandate provides greater flexibility in interpretation than the central bank has so far practiced. It's e.g. Paradoxically, if the forecasts of the Central Bureau of Statistics had been taken into account, there would have been no basis for raising interest rates in June, as the Bank of Norway did. It shows that there is a great deal of discretion and randomness that determine such important questions for the Kingdom. A review of the mandate and interpretation would thus have been appropriate. Because that's not what some people like to believe, that a debate on such key issues itself is harmful. On the contrary, it is a prerequisite for long-termity and predictability in monetary policy that the price is adjusted if it is obvious that the price is wrong. At my discretion, reality has acquired the Bank of Norway, and it is our responsibility as politicians to adjust the rate so that it becomes more real. This means that it is important to focus on issues that are already on the mandate — unemployment, production and the strength of the currency. This is my challenge to the Minister of Finance. Does he see these problems, and in that case what does he intend to do? What does he think it's right to do? Losing tens of thousands of industrial workplaces because of political ideology and principism can't be right. The Ministry has stressed in the revised national budget that the interpretation of the mandate should be understood to be within a plus-minus 1 pst fluctuation. This is how most central banks have similar mandates, i.e. equivalent systems of inflation targets, interpret their mandates. In other words, they have a loophole, and they have a considerable margin of discretion by not being mechanically understood. In a situation of considerable international uncertainty and signs of rising national unemployment, it will be important for the central bank to understand and respect the signals of collapse and government. The Ministry of Finance, although it is not your responsibility, is at the top of economic policy in Norway. That's the way it should be. But the mandate is moving in the opposite direction. That is why I ask the Minister of Finance to give a clear signal. I ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that what is contained in the revised national budget for understanding inflation's sloppy mouth is the views of the Minister of Finance and the Government, and that the Bank of Norway is to take this into account in the pursuit of monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e240	In St.meld. No 29 for 2000-2001 new monetary policy guidelines were drawn up. The size joined these. The reason for the conversion was that Norway is now in a period when budgetary policy is to be adapted to a gradual and sustained increase in the use of petroleum revenues in the Norwegian economy. In this situation, there was a need for a clear anchoring of the role of monetary policy in supporting stable economic development. New monetary policy guidelines were laid down in the Crown Prince’s Resolution of 29 March 2001. In line with the regulation, monetary policy shall aim at stability in the national and international value of the Norwegian krona, including contributing to stable expectations of exchange rate developments. The operational implementation of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway shall accordingly focus on low and stable inflation, defined as an annual growth in consumer prices, which over time are close to 2.5 p.m. As a general rule, growth in consumer prices is expected to be within a range of plus/minus 1 percentage point around the price rise target. In St.meld. No 29 further states that Norway’s Bank’s interest rate setting should be forward-looking and take due account of the uncertainty associated with macroeconomic estimates and assessments. It shall take into account that it may take time before policy changes take effect and it should disregard temporary disturbances which are not considered to affect the underlying price and cost growth. The underlying price increase is determined by developments in, inter alia: production and employment. The monetary policy guidelines of 29 March last year have given monetary policy a clear role in stabilising economic development. Low and stable inflation is important to ensure stability in production and employment and will also contribute to the stability of the exchange rate over time. Monetary policy shall not be geared towards seeking to stabilise it at all times in the evolution of consumer prices. Such a regime could involve more frequent interest rate changes and more unpredictable monetary policies. For frequent interest rate changes, a more uneven trend in output and employment could result. When monetary policy is to be forward-looking, focusing on the underlying economic conditions, it seeks to avoid such problems. At the same time, monetary policy will be able to react relatively quickly to conditions that affect the outlook for underlying inflation. In Norway, monetary policy has in the past been geared towards maintaining a firm or stable exchange rate. Experience has shown that it is difficult tofind the exchange rate. In the exercise of monetary policy, the Bank of Norway focused on the basic assumptions for a stable exchange rate, including the inflation outlook and the economic situation. In St.meld. No 29 states that the new guidelines themselves should not involve any significant change in the arrangements for monetary policy instruments. The new guidelines thus represent a clarification of the role of monetary policy. Norway’s Bank once reduced the steering interest rate in 2001, by 0.5 percentage points on 12 December, down to 6.5 pst. The fall in interest rates from December last year was reversed at the main board meeting on July 3rd this year. The effective price of the industry, the so-called competitive price index, increased by 4 pst. through 2001, and so far this year, the krone price has strengthened effectively with a further around 9.5 pst. These are relatively large movements compared to developments over large parts of the 1990s. However, the krone price was much more stable than the exchange rate of other small and open economies. The recent fluctuations do not stand out in relation to what other comparable economies have experienced. The strengthening of the exchange rate may reflect the fact that the Norwegian economy is considered to be strong in comparison with the situation in other countries. The capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy is high, the unemployment rate is low, and oil revenues are high in the foreign economy and in the state budget. Through the Petroleum Fund, a large part of the oil revenue is distributed abroad. This is essential to prevent direct fluctuations in oil revenue from falling directly into the price of the crown. Budgetary policy and monetary policy must work together to contribute to a stable development in production and demand. The rule of action has given budgetary policy a medium-term anchor. The rule of action involves the prudent and gradual phasing in of petroleum revenues, so that necessary adjustments can be made gradually over several years. The inflation target of monetary policy means that the expected average price increase will be slightly higher than that of our trading partners, which over time helps to dampen the pressure on the krone price. Economic policy guidelines have recently been adopted by the Stortinge. The government sees no need to propose changes to the monetary policy mandate. The operational implementation of monetary policy is, within the guidelines, the responsibility of the Bank of Norway. In St.meld. No So 29 says, well, let's say 29 is equal ‘The new monetary policy guidelines require the Bank of Norway to exercise a factual, defined discretion within its mandate.’.» This is what the Bank of Norway is doing today. There is today a great deal of confidence in monetary policy in financial markets. In order to maintain this confidence, it is essential to continue the role-sharing between politicians and the central bank. The Bank of Norway is responsible for the conduct of monetary policy, and it is not appropriate for me to intervene against it. Nor do I agree with Mr Djupedal that monetary policy is unpredictable. The government has recently submitted a State budget for 2003. The budget follows the rules of action for budgetary policy which ensure the smooth and sound phasing-in of oil revenues into the economy. The budget is tight and well adapted to the situation in the economy. A more expansive budget will undermine the credibility of budgetary policy. Such a policy will put an additional pressure on monetary policy, which can contribute to higher interest rates and further strengthen the exchange rate. This will also exacerbate working conditions for competitive business.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e271	The Minister of Finance's response to the interpellation was probably something to be expected. But I am pleased with two clarifications he made, and as I assume the Bank of Norway is noticing. One is that it is important that fiscal and monetary policies work together, as the Council of State said. This is a crucial point. For a small, open economy with its own currency, it's absolutely vital that you play on a team and not play against each other. As has been the case over a period of time, it may seem that Norway’s Bank has chosen to take a dominant role in economic policy, and this has been unfortunate. The second is that the Minister of Finance clearly states that what is in the revised national budget is to understand as plus/minus 1 pst. This means that the orthodox mechanical understanding of how this inflation target is to be understood by the Bank of Norway is incorrect. This means that when a two-year forecast is based on a small proportion of what is 2.5 pst., this is an understanding chosen by the Bank of Norway, but not necessarily in line with what has been the opinion of the Stortinges and the Government. In the situation we now have, I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is absolutely essential that we get an interest rate level that goes down. The Norwegian krona is strong, for many different reasons. The Norwegian economy in general is strong. And when you can get a significant gain from investing in Norwegian currency for the benefit of investing, for example. in shares in a troubled stock market, it is clear that many choose a safe haven in Norwegian Kronor. This is a problem for the Norwegian economy, by making Norwegian industry uncompetitive over time. There are many things that should have meant that the Bank of Norway should have reduced interest rates, and it should have done so at an earlier stage. The reasons for that are more. Unemployment in Norway is rising slightly, the export industry itself reports significant problems, the strong crown and the strong interest rate make it more difficult than good. We now see from the Agency's reports that consumption in Norway is decreasing. That means that private consumption is flattened out. That in itself is a good argument that the interest rate should have fallen. The third element, which unfortunately consumers have seen little gain from, is that with a strong currency we would per cent. the definition has imported a lower price increase than the one we have. Here's someone who eats off the load on the road, because that means that all the goods and services purchased abroad would have meant that with our strong currency we imported a lower price increase. Here's someone who eats off the load, which means that this gain has not come to the Norwegian economy, which it should obviously be. This was a relationship that spoke in the opposite direction. I hope that through this clarifying interpellation and the focus of the Minister of Finance on these two issues, a signal has now been given to the Bank of Norway, which means that in future monetary policy there will be less mechanics and more practical understanding of this, which has also been the opinion of the Minister of Finance and the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e288	I appreciate the last article on the interpellant, because it may testify that monetary policy has a broader anchoring than the Stortinge's treatment of St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001 alone could suggest. I think the interpellant is right in saying that it is particularly demanding for a small country to pursue an independent monetary policy in an economy where we see trends in other countries joining up in monetary union. Perhaps, in addition to the United Kingdom in relation to the euro area, Switzerland and Norway are currently pursuing an autonomous monetary policy with no links to the Union, and this is particularly demanding. It is also demanding to maintain stability in policy and monetary policy and that this be managed in a way that the market understands. It is my opinion that the Bank of Norway has done so in an excellent way, and that the financial market has perceived it in a similar way. For the sake of order, I must say that I do not share any of the characteristics which the interpellant gave in his first intervention by the Bank of Norway’s perception of the mandate, either ‘orthodox’, ‘letter faith’ or an expression for, as it is called, ‘political ideology’ and ‘principal rhyme’. The Bank of Norway shall assess when the instrument is to be used in the light of its own forecasts. I have to admit that using the interest rate instrument can be difficult in the two-year period. There are probably different perceptions of how early an instrument should be put in place in order to avoid the development of a wrong direction in relation to the mandate, i.e. significantly overstepping, for example. the inflation estimate. Norway’s Bank has proved to have considerable competence over time in providing good forecasts. In the last change in interest rates, Norway’s Bank justified its decision with a specific reference to recent wage settlements in the current year and the risk of further wage growth in the coming years. I put a certain emphasis on the fact that Norway's Bank's competence in providing wage development forecasts has proved to be very good, in fact better than most others who provide forecasts for this. So I don't share the interpellant's concern that Norway's Bank exaggerates fear in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e301	The increased rate and high interest rates are undoubtedly a major challenge for the Norwegian economy, and in particular for our export-oriented industry. This is what we experience on a daily basis through the loss of jobs in the particularly export-oriented sector. For this reason, it is also very important that economic policies together help us to experience a decline in interest rates in the future. When the Storting discussed and adopted new monetary policy guidelines, the majority strongly emphasised that financial, monetary, structural and income policies should ‘work together to achieve the objective of a stable framework for business and sound economic development’. And the same majority also stressed that fiscal policy was to be ‘actively used to balance the fluctuations in the economy and to act as a cyclical stabiliser’. I also mention that the inter-pellant party did not join that majority at the time, but stood next to it and did not agree with the majority of the Stortinge in the conversion of economic policy guidelines. It was, as is well known, the government of Stoltenberg that promoted the issue of changing the economic policy guidelines. The aim was, as has also been said by the Minister of Finance, in particular. ensuring the proper phasing-in of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy, thereby also clarifying the role of monetary policy in the economy. I would like to stress once again what the Labour Party stressed when the guidelines were amended, that budgetary policy and monetary policy must work together. The Workers' Party was critical of how the Bondevik government is now, at the latest, in our economic policy. We thought at the time that the limits were set, that the budget was in the most loose form, and that, at that time, precisely the interaction between budgetary policy and monetary policy was not taken into account enough to contribute to the potential fall in interest rates. Now there is a tight budget for the Stortinget. It's important. But I'd like to underline a relationship to what's important. It is that new approaches are also being taken to ensure good cooperation in income policy. Without that, too, working well with fiscal and monetary policies, we do not have the right governance of the overall economic policy. Finally, the Labour Party sees no need to change monetary policy guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e316	The representative, Mr Djupedal, argued that Norway’s Bank’s interpretation of the monetary policy mandate and thus the decision to set interest rates at half a percentage point was strongly criticised. I guess it's an exaggeration. I'm also a little surprised that one of the three criticisms the representative of Djupedal had was that the Bank of Norway's exercise of monetary policy is undemocratic. I find it a little difficult to say that the exercise is undemocratic, when it follows the mandate given by the magnificence and government. What would be undemocratic is if the Bank of Norway took into account what individual representatives in the Storting had to think at all times. However, there has been a certain debate on what role monetary policy can and should play in balancing the economic situation in the real economy and ensuring the competitiveness of Norwegian business. The representative, Djupedal, also claimed that Norway’s Bank attaches too much importance to achieving the inflation target, and that it is very static. But – as many people have been here – it has been no more than a year and a half since the Great Britain adopted the new economic policy guidelines, where monetary policy should be directed towards low and stable inflation, and this was the best contribution monetary policy could make to stability in the krone price over time. We're not alone in having such an inflation target. There are very many other countries that have it too. The interest rate affects the price increase, inter alia: via the exchange rate. Stronger crown damper inflation. And if you're going to counteract the fact that the crown is strengthening when there's pressure in the economy, the possibility of keeping inflation in check is also reduced, and the risk of large fluctuations in the economy is increasing. This cannot be the aim of the representative, Mr Djupedal. It is also not just monetary policy that should be used to influence the extent of competitive business that we are going to have over time. It is mainly the formation of wages and income, financial policy, including the use of oil money, and the ability to adapt and the efficiency of the economy to decide. We know that it is up to the social partners to determine the formation of wages and income. Then it might not be wise to invest in a salary increase that is 2 percentage points higher over time than the one our trading partners have. Wage growth in Norway is too high. The financial policy, including the use of oil money, is governed mainly from this room. And the best contribution we can make is to provide tight budgets. Just gradually phasing in oil revenues, that is, spending a little more money each year, can help to weaken the conditions of the competitive industry. That danger was the Stortinget aware of when the rule of action was adopted. Like Hill-Marta Solberg, I see no need to change the mandate of the Bank of Norway. Monetary policy guidelines provide for flexible management of inflation and ensure stability and predictability in monetary policy. Then monetary policy and financial policy, including budgetary policy, work together, by adopting a tight budget, and by perhaps getting the social partners a little less well paid next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e336	Let me first say that the Progress Party supports the inflation target for monetary policy. It is important that there is stability, long-term sustainability, credibility and predictability in the Norwegian monetary policy mechanism. But that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be able to have both professional and political discussions about the arrangement of the details of our monetary policy from time to time. But there must be long-term discussions, and not discussions resulting from sudden shocks in the economy or the short-term need for sudden adjustments. There are several teams raised questions about the actual rental of 2.5 pst. It is such that the Norwegian economy is in the midst of structural conversion processes that may require adjustments to both relative prices and wages. The type of adjustments may be easier if the inflation target ensures sufficient space. So that discussion I think we have to take. Another discussion is in relation to the wording of Section 1 of the mandate that ‘there should be no direct effect on consumer prices due to changes in the level of interest rates, taxes, charges and special temporary disturbances’. It should also be discussed, firstly because we know from calculations, among other things. by the Statistical Central Agency that major changes in fiscal policy for one year have effects several years in advance. We have also seen from the report of the State budget that there are effects on consumer prices, the price rise, of past reliefs, among others. in the food market. I should also like to refer to a recently discussed document. 8 proposals from the Progress Party, which we are now registering, have broad support in the trade unions. More and more points to the lack of institutional independence of the Bank of Norway, the unclear nature of the regulation and the disadvantage of the political appointment of the Governing Council. Here, there's also a basis for doing something. So I want to raise a problem to, and that's the main argument that's led from the Government, that there's a connection between the so-called tight fiscal policy, interest rate and exchange rate. Those who claim it obviously assume that the relationship works mechanically, and I disagree with that. There is reason to challenge the established relationship between interest rate and exchange rate, for it is less automatic than one seems to believe. Since the time has come, I have to make another comment to promote the details of the argument. But I would like to challenge the Council of State precisely on this issue, because he is one of those who are more clear in claiming that the relationship between interest rate and exchange rate is obvious. It's not that obvious. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e351	It should be done to receive answers from the Council of State, since the Council of State is the one who has the floor at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e354	The backbone of this debate is that, fortunately, Norway has avoided the worst results so far from the economic problems that go all over the world. While the interest rate at e.g. The United States has gone down under the pressure of the stock exchange crisis, the tune here in the country is largely the same as it has been for several years. Concerned rules explain the risk of price growth and weakening competitiveness, as too many are said to have too good. However, there is much evidence that inflation ghosts are not the most dangerous of the storms that northern men may encounter in the time to come, and that it is becoming a problem that avoiding some pro-mileline deviations from the inflation target is an overall political objective in Norway. In the last few months, the government has moved into a circular argument, which seems to promote a particular type of economic policy, a policy of tightening up the public sector and a policy that we see threatening to create unemployment. Through a strict interpretation of the mandate of monetary policy, the possibility of governing the rules of economic policy is left to the Bank of Norway, and it is clear that the Government sees itself to have it this way. It makes them have an external, powerful actor to put on the responsibility. When it is claimed that the payroll has become too good, or that increased appropriations to the municipalities will contribute to the interest rate jump, this becomes self-fulfilling prophecies. The result is that the government can conduct classical right-wing policy, with cuts in the welfare offer, and put the responsibility on an external factor – we had no choice, we're just responsible! But of course, the government has a choice. The signals given by the Minister of Finance on how to interpret the mandate are important. That is why I think it is positive that the Minister of Finance emphasises that there should be no mechanical connection in this. However, the way in which the mandate has been interpreted in the last few months is difficult to understand than the fact that some increase in inflation is more dangerous for Norway than increased unemployment. It is a responsibility and a priority for which it is just not automatic and for which the Government should respond. The interpretation of the mandate that has been given in recent months has had obvious unfortunate consequences for our society. The government cannot forever continue to point to Gedrem and say that responsibility for an unpopular policy lies with him. The responsibility lies at the seventh and last of the government, and the responsibility becomes heavier and heavier the longer it goes at high interest rates, and for every time unemployment increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e373	Interpellant focuses on, inter alia: that a strong krone has created problems for the export industry. He continued to focus on the adverse effects of the change in monetary policy regulation, and also expressed a desire to ensure greater stability and sound monetary policy. Then Stortinget for approx. Sixteen years ago, the discussion of St.meld. No 29 for 2000-2001, there was broad political consensus among others. that a strong and competitive business life was an undertaking to achieve the main objective of economic policy, namely work for all, fair distribution, further development of the welfare society and contribution to sustainable development. There was also a broad political consensus that all parts of economic policy had to work together to help achieve the objective of stable economic development. In Norway, we have a tradition of a healthy and clear delimitation of responsibility for fiscal policy, monetary policy and income policy. Although a strong dollar and a high interest rate now is one of our main challenges, I don't see this as a reason to claim that those developments stem from the way monetary policy is managed, perhaps rather the opposite. I simply register trust in the Norwegian monetary policy in the financial environment, and this is important to keep up. Without this trust we wear a little. Therefore, it is very important to maintain a clear role-sharing between the Storing and the Central Bank. When it comes to the main challenge that the interpellant also faced, simply push both the crown and the interest rate level, it is precisely through fiscal policy that the Stortninget can primarily help to reduce this pressure. Not least in the budget currently under consideration, this is a major challenge. Norway has a very open economy, and therefore it is so important to maintain the confidence in the economic policy of our country that we have. Frequent changes in, among others: monetary policy does not contribute to such a goal. And besides, it's only been sixteen years since monetary policy was reformed. In my opinion, it's too short a time to evaluate, and it's too short a time to make changes. This will rather contribute to instability and uncertainty about Norwegian economic policy. Therefore, from the Christian People's Party's side, we see no need to change the monetary policy regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e387	The SV and the Centre have the same concern for the workplaces in competitive business. It's too passive to borrow backwards when thousands of jobs are at risk because of high dollar rates and high interest rates. The centre party wishes to give greater emphasis to production and employment considerations when determining the level of interest rates. The central party has meant what is stated in the interest rate instructions, including: monetary policy shall support fiscal policy by contributing to stabilising the development of production and employment and contributing to stable expectations of exchange rate developments. We have noticed that, based on a letter written to the Department two days before the interest rate directive was adopted, Norway’s Bank claims that only a narrow inflation target applies. The centre party will apply the entire interest rate instruction. There is no need for a textual change, but a precision. The instruction is OK, the interpretation is incorrect and harmful. On 21 August this year, the Central Party invited the other parties on the Stortinget to an industrial policy settlement. A clarification of the interest rate instruction was item 1 of the letter. The government parties have answered the letter, the Workers' Party and SV have not. Government parties write in their letter that there is no need for a new regulation. Nor has the Center Party ever invited. However, the content of the letter from the government parties says that these parties too want monetary policy to contribute to stable employment. The central bank manager’s interpretation of his instructions is so rigid today that a number of times can be tempted to wonder if that job could not have been done by a simple calculator. The centre party has now promoted a Document No. 8 proposals to clarify that more attention should be paid to the stability of production and employment. It is because we believe that the damage of today's interpretation is too great. If, in today's situation, we get a changed practice, this could lead to a slightly higher price increase for a shorter period of time. But the interest rate and the interest rate will go down, and that's what we need. I would remind you that the Norwegian Bank's reason for the last interest rate increase was that we would otherwise be able to get 2.75 pst. price increases in two years. The interest rate instruction indicates an inflation measure of close to 2,5 pst. over time. This term is explained in St.meld. No 29 for 2000-2001 and in the opinion of the Committee to 2.5 pst. plus/minus 1 percentage point. This is also what Norway’s Bank is going to do. Then we've got the increase in the krone price and new records even after a tight budget has been provided. It's not consistent with the theories that apply. I would therefore like to ask questions about what might be the driving forces, whether it is not that there is someone who really makes a lot of money on it that others lose. Do we have enough surveillance to reveal any speculations about our dollar rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e406	Several speakers in this inter-pelling debate have addressed the Governor’s interpretation of the mandate and the follow-up to the mandate, as set out in particular in the monetary policy regulation. I fully agree that it is absolutely essential that the Governor and the Governor of Norway and the Governor of Norway interpret the mandate in the manner expected by the Grand Duchy and the Government. It is important that there is no misunderstanding in this area between the legislator and the government and the governor. Some have claimed that they think the governor interprets the mandate very specifically and very restrictively. That's what the previous speaker said, that there's an inflation target of 2.5 pst. over time. I guess it's also stated in the preliminary work that it can be temporary plus/minus 1 pst. It's over time it's 2.5 pst. Some have responded that when the expectation in 21⁄2 years was 2.75 p.m., it was within, without any need to adjust the interest rate. In the Financial Committee and in public debate, the Progress Party has called for the Norwegian Storing Financial Committee to invite the Governor of the Central Bank to an open consultation in the context of the budgetary procedure this autumn. Everyone says that a tight budget will lead to a reduction in interest rates. The question then arises as to how the Governor perceives the proposed budget. It would be essential for the Storting and the Financial Committee to be familiar with the assessment of the budget by the Governor of the Central Bank in a number of areas. It would be a very important tool to have insight into whether the governor sees it as a matter of fact that, if the sick pay and payments to the disabled go up, it can be countered by introducing abstinences for pensioners and the underprivileged and tightening of the day-to-day arrangements — if it has something to do with each other. That is why I think it is alarming that all other parties in the Financial Committee have rejected our proposal to have such an open consultation with the Governor of the Central Bank, for which there is full opportunity in the context of the operation of the Storting. The newspapers have also found that the governor would have no difficulty in coming to such an open hearing if he was invited. What in the world are the other parties so afraid of? Are they afraid that the governor will say something negative about the budget? Is Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen afraid that, at some points, the governor might have a different position from what they would like him to have, and therefore do they want this to be kept secret? I allow myself to ask out in the air – will only get out a little of my frustration. Why are you so afraid of openness? [[The President clubs.]] Why is the Governor so afraid to answer questions from the Financial Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e419	It's okay to ask in the air. It's just a little bit difficult to get answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e422	Maybe someone wants to try?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e429	First, Carl I. Hagen, we don't mind the fact that the governor of the central bank is coming to the Stortinget. We thought it was unwise that this was tied up to the budget, as Hagen so very close does. But I think it's right that the Storting has a dialogue with the central bank. But the most important thing is that the governor understands what big business and government wants. So he's a tool for what we want, and not the other way around. That is what makes us criticise both the mandate and the exercise of the mandate, simply because a governor and his board are to act in harmony with the wishes of the majority and the wishes of the Government. What I think we have increasingly seen is that he believes himself to be an over-judge in economic policy, which is very unfortunate and undemocratic in the SV's view. We have, as some speakers have pointed out, been opposed to this method of fixing interest rates, with an inflation target and an increasing degree of independence for the central bank. It's not a secret. I think that time has shown that this system, for a small currency, for a small country with an open economy, is very vulnerable. This is so extremely vulnerable. An inflation target can certainly work better in a larger economy, within the EU or in greater monetary cooperation. Fortunately, we are not involved in such monetary cooperation. It takes a completely different globalization of the economy if it's to be able to move in the same direction. Nevertheless, I am pleased with the signals given by the Minister of Finance and also by several representatives of the United Kingdom on the two issues that are crucial. Point 1 is that the signals that we give to the Central Bank should be taken into account. What has been said in the revised national budget and in regulations, that it should be understood plus/minus 1 pst, means that this mechanical understanding of what the governor and his board have so far spoken about is not in line with the magnificence and government wants. I would assume that this will be a very important signal that the governor and the governor of the central bank must note, for this is said and expressed by a clear majority in the Grand Duchy. And the governor must, whether he likes or not, find out that this is actually the case in a democratic people's government. The second thing I am satisfied with is that more people here are calling for – or at least think they are – that having a debate on this in itself is not harmful. In England, the minutes of the main board meetings of the central bank are open and accessible in a short time, simply because having a public debate on this in itself does not weaken anything in terms of long-termity or predictability in monetary policy. It is important that magnification and government adjust this at all times if necessary. Our wish is, of course, a different mandate, but what has been stressed by a majority here is that production, employment and the value of the crown should be emphasised by the Bank of Norway. It's an infinitely important signal, because it could mean that the emphasis on the totality of the economy of Norway's Bank for the future will be different. This will lead to a fall in interest rates and will result in a weakening of the currency – which is infinitely important now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e440	I think it's an illusion to think that interest rates are influenced by political signals or by debates. The interest rate reflects realities in the economy, and those realities have to be addressed before it appears in the thermometer that the interest rate can be perceived as popular. Normally Parliament communicates with the central bank through the government, through the proposals made by the government, and the documents by which the Stortinget responds. It's the normal form, and it works well. I'm not going to have any idea of Storting's arrangement of open hearings. I just note that it has happened before the Finance Minister and the Governor of the Central Bank have met in the Financial Committee of the Storting as requested. Of course, the governor does not act as some form of over-judgment, or has views on details of budgetary policy. The mandate of the Central Bank Governor also limits his perceptions, and he feels very well. I also stress that the current governor is actually very actively communicating with a broad opinion. I just see from this week's plan that he should give three open lectures on economic policy, so I think there's every opportunity to have a dialogue on this in society. And with the confidence that current monetary policy meets, both in the market and with a broad political background, I am not afraid of any debate on all aspects of economic policy. The representative, Hill-Marta Solberg, underlined the importance of the relationship between financial, monetary, structural and income policies, and I agree with that. The government's budget for the next year follows up to a large extent significant areas of structural policy, in line with recommendations such as: from the OECD. In the field of labour market, the day-to-day arrangements, in relation to disability, the follow-up to the Sandman Committee, and not least effective competition policy towards protected industries — the essential elements of structural policy are all of these. It was the head of the finance committee, Siv Jensen, who asked questions about the professional economic debate – how closely the relationship between interest rates and interest rates is. Time does not permit anything but to say that there are, of course, other factors that affect the price of the crown other than the level of interest. In this area, however, we must recognise that our knowledge and professional knowledge of how the krone price develops for a small economy such as Norwegian or Swiss in Europe, dominated by the euro area, is relatively small. But we are still reaping new experiences. Finally, I would just like to say that I am very pleased that the debate has revealed a broad consensus on monetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e455	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e461	We then go to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-15.ana.ud680e5468	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
