ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e54	The position of the Finance Committee of the Combined Pension Scheme Act is a follow-up from the setting of changes in the Act on Retirement Pensions and Entrepreneurship Pensions, where the majority asked the Government to return to the Stortinget with an assessment of placing a deposit pension at the top of a performance pension, i.e. a combined scheme. The working party and SV were not in the plural at that time, and SV will not vote for the proposal this time either. The majority, on the other hand, are well pleased with the Government's proposals and support this. The setting also deals with other issues, but I want to leave it to you, because they are largely negotiated in the committee. There has been a revolution in private sector pension insurance in the last few years. We've been given the right to a corporation pension, the law on a deposit pension, the opening of a parallel arrangement, and now the multiple opens so that one can also combine these arrangements. These service pension laws are important contributions to building up the distinction between those employees who have service pension schemes in working conditions and those who do not. While all employees in the public sector have good and guaranteed service pension schemes, only every third employee in the private sector has service pension schemes in addition to social security. That people are busy with their pensions, we see, for example. by the fact that there has now been a central issue in the spring wage settlement. The system of supplementary pension schemes, although relatively fresh, has been very extensive and will take time before both employees, employers and other market players have gained knowledge and not least an overview of the new system and how it works. Several of the hearing authorities are positive to combined pension schemes, and it is, of course, that some will be able to make money on it. But one should also note that several of the hearing aids warn against introducing the system now. The NHO expresses scepticism to introduce such a complicated system with what they call a marginal effect. The Consumer Council points out that both individual workers and small and medium-sized enterprises will find it difficult to deal with combined schemes precisely because of the complexity of the legislation. In this context, the majority refers to a decision requiring the undertaking to provide employees with a written overview of the legislation of each pension scheme. But that's just the kind of information that turns out to be so hard to understand. How difficult it is to get an overview of my own pension, did I find in a way that had been illustrated by former Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg. He told of his own father, Thorvald, who came to Sunday dinner with a letter and a letter about his pensions without understanding what was written there. Nor can the son, Jens Stoltenberg, with his background explain or understand the contents of the letters. That's an important point. The legislation on pensions has been so complicated that it is impossible for an individual to have an overview of his pension coverage, his rights and the money he will receive when he becomes a pensioner. It should give us reason to have some ice in our stomachs in order to introduce even more complex systems. Many players in the financial market are ready for new products that they want to sell, and competition for customers can be expected to be even greater. But the question is whether this amount of actors will have the means to provide correct and simple information about the arrangements. A pension scheme that is simple, transparent and imputable is also one of the objectives of the Governmental Pension Commission, headed by Sigbjørn Johnsen. But when a combination is now open, an infinite number of combinations can be created, and it may be difficult to get an overview of the possible consequences, i.e., in contravention of the objectives of a transparent and simple system. Another reason for going against combined schemes is that these would violate the principle of equal treatment in pension schemes. Two to three years ago, a study by the European Commission, the so-called Colcon report, was carried out by the Norwegian Municipal Council, which is a review of pension schemes in all EU countries plus Norway. The Municipal Association already concluded that no other country has schemes comparable to our pension schemes. We had already received the most liberal pension system in Europe – and that was before combined schemes were put in place. In its estimates, the Ministry writes that it will hardly be possible to draw up a code for combined schemes that ensures that there will be no unintended differences when the debt is collected for members who can otherwise be compensated. Yes, the department goes so far that they write that it will not be possible in practice to set requirements for pension schemes that essentially allow the proportionality principle and general requirements for equal treatment to be implemented in combined schemes. For us in SV, the proportionality principle is very central in the pension system, and with that in mind, and what I have done otherwise, we will therefore oppose the proposal for combined schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e77	Retirement was a theme in the previous ageing period, and it is hoped to be even more during this period when the major distribution comes. The case spokesperson has done a good job on this matter in a straightforward way, so I just want to take this to myself with combined pension schemes, which is what a little disagrees about. The Government's proposal in the bill is that one of the laws should open up so that combined pension schemes are also subject to tax deductions. Combined schemes are defined as pension schemes consisting of both a performance-based pension and an inlet-based pension. There are rules on equal treatment for members of the scheme, both in terms of performance-based and inflow-based pensions, i.e. the principle of proportionality. These rules allow pension schemes to compensate for a reduction in the performance rate of the population, but do not allow for differences in treatment beyond that level. It's e.g. not possible for companies to offer the employees of the company a scheme of 60 pst. performance, while officials get 66 pst. and receive tax relief for this. For combined schemes, however, it is a problem that even if the proportionality principle is used in each of the schemes, this does not result in equal treatment. The reason for this is that when the distribution profile of the population is evened out in both schemes, they are overcompensated. This means that members with a high salary receive a relatively much higher pension than members with a low and medium wage. For combined schemes, then, rules must be created to ensure that the two schemes together provide a relatively equal pension for all. Because a revenue-based scheme and a performance-based scheme are very different, this is difficult. In practice, it is virtually not possible to design rules to ensure equal treatment in all possible combinations and schemes. Laws provide for a purpose paragraph requiring equal treatment, as well as for the Ministry to draw up regulations. The Labour Party has previously refused to allow combined schemes, and the main reason for this is that it is not possible to ensure that all workers are offered a relatively equal pension scheme. Another argument has been that the scheme is complicated and that it may be difficult for members to get an overview of their pension rights. But in the listening terms, there are many who are in favour of combined schemes. LO also contributed to the organisation of combined schemes, but stressed that they should not lead to the unparalleled treatment of the members of the scheme. The Labour Party has asked the Ministry about how they can ensure equal treatment. It has been a long correspondence with complicated questions and even more complicated answers. However, the Minister of Finance agrees and points out several times in the answer that this is important in the further work of designing the regulations, with the principle of proportionality. In the Labour Party we note that there are several combined pension schemes in this process, and that there were several for it in the past. We are basically positive that one should look at this with combined arrangements now when the Minister of Finance is so positive to equal treatment and underlines it. The Labour Party today has a proposal that takes on a slightly different wording in sections 2 to 12, where we propose that «the legislation of the pension schemes should be designed to avoid discrimination between workers», etc., while the Government suggests that «the legislation of the pension schemes should be designed to avoid discrimination between workers». I think we've come very far, not just in meeting the Government, but as the Minister of Finance stressed in his letter, we're actually more in line with the Minister of Finance than the proposal is. I wonder very much about why the Government and the government party can not agree to ensure that one can avoid different handling as far as possible. I wonder what kind of consideration it is important to take care of when one cannot vote for our proposal. I feel that I have not received an answer to that. We have tried from the Workers' Party's side to be matching. Even if we know that there are multiples for this case independently of us, we think it would be important to have a fairly wide deal in the Storting for combined schemes. But when there's such a reluctance from the government party's side here to agree to secure what we're all occupied with, the most possible equal treatment, then I'm very uncertain. I am therefore very excited about what is being said here today. We have our own proposal from the Labour Party that it should be designed so as to avoid ‘discrimination between workers’. I hope that's the intention of the government party too, but it's still very unclear to me. I take up the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e98	The representative Ranveig Frøiland has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e101	As the rapporteur said, the Stortinget dealt with a number of laws and changes in the law on pensions in the previous period. The majority in Stortinget then asked for the department to come back with proposals for combined pension schemes, and we are of course satisfied that it has been followed up. The cooperation parties are also satisfied with the agreement of a broad majority on the Stortinget. Only the SV and the Coastal Party have found no reason to support the proposal, a proposal to which most hearing bodies are positive. The NHO goes against, and a new alliance has emerged between NHO and SV. It is a little surprising that SV does not support the proposal that can make more employees better pension schemes in employment than they would otherwise have. The working party has understood that. For combined schemes, there is greater freedom of choice for the individual enterprise and for the employee. It may therefore be beneficial for combined schemes to have some form of spread of risk by the fact that the amount of pension payments made by the defined contribution scheme and the defined benefit scheme relate to different conditions, respectively the development of the value of the underlying assets and future wage increases. I agree with the case rapporteur, from SV, that the supplementary pension scheme system is comprehensive and that the legislation is complicated, and no one would mind if the Pension Commission or others were able to simplify the legislation. But this is not an argument for going against the scheme, which is what is wanted. Indeed, enterprises are required by law to provide employees with a written overview of the legislation of each pension scheme. Another reason why SV opposes the proposal is that the requirement of proportionality and non-discrimination may be difficult to fully implement. However, the Ministry will design the rules so as to avoid discrimination as far as possible in terms of total pensions in relation to wages and hours of service and so that the high-wages do not receive a higher percentage of wages and salaries than low-wages. But is it wise to let the principle of total proportionality overshadow everything else? I don't think so. We from the cooperation parties are a little uncertain about what the Workers' Party puts in the special note and its proposal at this point. Is the purpose of the Workers' Party to strengthen the requirement, or is it just a clearer wording? We believe that it may be unfortunate to change the provisions in relation to what has been proposed by the Ministry, with the balances and assessments behind. That is why the parties do not support the proposals of the Workers' Party. So we are fully in agreement with the intention. The Ministry should try to lay down rules to maximise proportionality and non-discrimination. Finally, with regard to the proposal of the Progress Party to ask the Government to promote supplementary amendments in order to ensure the right to earned benefits for members of a pension scheme without the issue of free policies, everyone, minus the Progress Party, is opposed to this. The background is that free policies should be treated in the same way regardless of whether or not they continue to be included in the pension scheme. Therefore, free policies must be excluded from the pension scheme’s resources. That is why we do not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e116	In his statement, the rapporteur was very concerned about the conditions of private pension schemes, and this can be agreed to insofar as most people agree. But I want to say that the propositions that Odelstinget has been submitted for treatment after we had the two really big pension cases, namely the law on occupational retirement provision and the law on pension contributions, are essentially the follow-up to decisions taken by a majority in this hall. It was absolutely necessary because we had very extensive legislative changes that both required their legal adaptation and further investigation at some points where the majority of the population were found together. One of the conditions is precisely this with combined pension schemes, as a majority among others. Int. O. No 110 for 2000-2001 asked for it. The Progress Party also shares the view on the need for combined schemes, and has been a driving force for doing so, not least because, as the rapporteur also said, there are very many workers who do not have pension schemes in addition to the system of social security. But it is precisely by increasing the flexibility of the systems that more people will get. So before we passed the deposit-based pension law, there were one million employees who were completely without private arrangements. In fact, then, it is our job to facilitate the law so that more people will be able to do so, by having flexible and varied schemes that also give employers in small jobs room for and afford to provide their employees with curative pension schemes. The progress party has a different one, and that's the second paragraph of Section 8-1, which we're going to go against. We are committed to minimising the administrative costs of the Free Police. The whole point of free policies is to ensure that the members of a pension scheme do not lose the right to benefits already earned when the plan is closed, terminated or changed by other means. In fact, a hedge of that right may consist in the retention of the cover as fully paid in the arrangement of which the rightholder is a member, even if no free police is issued. I would therefore also like to include in the vote the minority proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e129	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to. The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over. [[Fooding, see page 175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e146	For treatment in Odelstinget, we now have the Innst. O. No 34, which is based on Ot.prp. No 34 on changes in the tax legislation applicable to power plant taxation. The Financial Committee has probably had some problems with getting into Ot.prp properly. No 34, and we have therefore had to correspond a good deal to the Council of State on the content. But we have now reached a position, a majority position, which we are dealing with here tonight. In the 1996 power reform, some transitional rules were laid down allowing power companies to choose the tax input value to be determined on specific physical means of operation per. 1 January 1997 mainly based on repurchasing values calculated by the Directorates of Waters and Engi of Norway. I would like to stress that in the 1996 electricity tax reform, all electricity companies, i.e. both ex-percent and ex-account power companies, whether tax input values on the entity's specific operating resources should be based on actual acquisition costs, the so-called historical cost, or on replacement values determined by the NVE. Then there has been the situation that the NVE’s determination of replacement value under the transitional rules we adopted in 1996 has been supported by the merger title of the Central Tax Office for Big Businesses. At the time of taxing, the NVE has on some points deviated from the cost base set out in its publications 19/95 and 20/95. In the view of this denominator, there was no access to such departures. I would like to stress that in the force reform and the debate we had at that time, the starting point was the overall plan and the methods used in relation to the overall plan. An important element of the electricity tax reform for the choice of transitional rules was the tax input value of the operating assets and that it was taken care of. It is, as it says, the ‘unexplained legal state of the day’. Once this ‘state’ has arisen, in my view, it is the duty of the legislator to adjust the law so that it operates in accordance with its intention, as it did in 1996. For most power companies, the legislative proposal will lead to a continuation of current tax base values and will therefore not require further efforts by the tax authorities or the tax authorities. The decision taken today by the majority shall result in equal treatment between all power undertakings for 2001 and subsequent years of income. Disadvantages must be weighed against the benefits that this bill will bring. I would like to underline two aspects: the achievement of equal treatment for all taxpayers in the form of the determination of tax input values based on the same principles with effect for later years of income, and the clarification and delineation of further resource use for taxpayers and the equality authorities related to any change in the equation, recalculation and recalculation for subsequent years of income. In this context, it is important to clarify that the current decision will not interfere with the treatment of the ongoing review of the equations for previous years of income. Disputes before the Equations Authorities and the judiciary will relate to the years 1997–2000. It is for these years that the legal situation has not been clarified. In the majority comments, it is natural for the Government to come back to the Storting with a statement and an assessment of the outcome of these tax cases. Questions about a greater degree of individual treatment, especially for river power stations, have been raised during the hearings and in the debate in the Committee. The hearings have shown that for some works, there are significant issues beyond ponds and the construction technology of river power stations that have raised questions about individual treatment. Therefore, in the further examination of the case, the Ministry of Finance should carry out assessments as to whether certain types of operating equipment which are less suitable for a stencil approach should be extended to small tunnels and control installations, etc. The cancellation must assume that these are matters the Government must take into account in the preparation of the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e178	The cooperation parties agree to the submission by the rapporteur-general. We agree on the comments on this matter. Let me just stress that the Government's proposal and the majority's vote will eliminate the uncertainty and inequality of tax treatment for power companies, which was one of the main objectives and prerequisites of the 1996 reform. As the rapporteur also emphasised, for most people this would imply a continuation of the current tax base. It must be the obligation of the legislator and also the right to intervene in the present uncertainties in order to limit the use of resources by tax authorities, clarify liquid legal conditions and avoid significant use of resources by comprehensive recalculations of the replacement value, the so-called GAV, and input values. The 1996 transitional rules gave an initial choice for the power companies between the historical cost of the installations and the NVE GAV calculation. It is also important that the Storting decision on the use of GAV as an alternative to the historical cost of the electricity tax reform was not an objective that would affect the performance of power companies or their ability to invest in any way. In its observations, the minority of the Committee attaches the greatest importance to the fact that the case has not been consulted and that this is a breach of the investigation instruction. The majority, and also the ministry, believe that consultation has not been necessary in this case, and that it would hardly have contributed to any other than explaining the company's own claims as to what the tax input values should be, and the consequence of these claims, while the Storting had decided in 1996 that the competence to determine the GAV had been added to the NVE and not to the individual taxpayer. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his good work and also for his good cooperation on a rather complicated matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e193	Like both the case spokesperson and the representative Sanner, I would also like to focus on the first part of the proposition, which relates to the tax input value of the means of operation of power companies. That part of the proposition we thought was pretty special. What Odelstinge is asked to do in this part of the proposition is to keep track of methodological changes that, according to the review subject, are contrary to the current law. In other words, today's practice, which, in the view of the review student, is contrary to the current law, is proposed by a modification of the tax law. Instead of correcting current practices in line with current legislation, choose to change the tax law to ensure that current practices become legal. This is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, a very unfortunate way to proceed. It was mentioned from both the case spokesperson and from the representative Sanner that we have an unexplained legal situation. The case spokesperson was in on it, and the representative Sanner also pointed to the insecurity that exists today. I would just like to remind you that the so-called unexplained legal status can be clearly and easily removed by the fact that the NVE for the future bases its decision on its practice when it comes to the taxation of these means of operation. Another problem, which was also raised by the representative Sanner, is that this matter has not been heard before the department presented it to the Stortinget. The reason for this was that such a hearing in this case was open unnecessarily. The Progress Party is not in agreement with the Finance Minister and the Ministry of Finance's assessment here. We therefore believe that the draft odelstingsproposal should have been sent to the hearing. Despite the fact that the proposal was submitted to the Stortinget on 21 December 2001, we realise that such a hearing, and therefore a postponement of the time of submission, would have the effect that the change could not have been made as of the 2001 fiscal year. However, if this has also been a contributing reason why hearing has not been found, the ministry says nothing about it. The case is also not as enlightened as it should have been. Among other things, there is no satisfactory statement of the economic consequences of the legislative changes. Nor has it been said how the decision will affect future investments in the power sector and therefore not how the decision will affect future electricity prices. In other words, the proposition is far too poor to justify for Odelstinget today a decision to amend the tax laws. On the basis of this, the Progress Party would therefore choose to oppose the proposal in Chapter 1 of the Proposition on new paragraphs 18 to 8 of the Tax Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e210	The legal status of the rules on the tax input value of depreciable physical means of operation specific to power undertakings has been unclear. Therefore, it is initially affordable for the Government to propose solutions and clarifications to this situation. However, the government’s proposals have not been consulted. It is obvious that this has not been done in a case where it has subsequently been found that there are a lot of important objections, and where it would have been possible in time to get to a normal consultation round. In the Central Party, we have no understanding of the Finance Minister’s assessment when he claims that such a hearing in this case would have been ‘apparently unnecessary’. I would rather turn it around and say that in this case there would have been a clear need for a hearing when the Department of Proposition on page 8 says: ‘The Ministry has no basis for determining whether the overall proceeds of the proposal would be positive or negative.’ – In other words, what has to do with the state’s income. The centre party cannot see that the government’s obligation to investigate the matter has been fulfilled in this case. Indeed, where there is significant uncertainty as to the basis of calculation, the full weight of the study instruction should be included in the requirement for ‘estimated both for minimum and maximum alternatives’. The breach of the investigation manual is also confirmed by Professor Dr.jur. Eivind Smith, who, in a legal opinion carried out for E-CO Energia AS, says that we must be able to establish safely that the proposition has been submitted in violation of important parts of the investigation manual. It sounds very clear to me. In the first part of the Minister of Finance's letter of 12 February 2002 to the Workers' Group, point 2.1, it is clearly stated that there is no perception of how large increases in amounts or changes in the bill could be in different respects. This is probably a confirmation that the Ministry has failed to fulfil its obligation to draw up estimates of maximum and minimum options, as the instructions indicate that it will be done in cases of significant uncertainty. Thus, the Government has not provided the Stortinget with any basis for assessing the important consequences of the proposal that Odelstinget has been invited to make. The central party therefore believes that the Stortinget cannot take a decision and take a decision on this matter until, among other things, the decision is taken. has become more aware of the economic impact of such a decision. Information not provided in the Ministry's case study suggests that several power companies can have significant tax incentives due to the amendment of the law. We should make sure that we knew before we made a decision. It is also unclear the significance of any such tax consolidation in view of future investments and future electricity prices for consumers. It is difficult to see that the owners of older power plants actually had some real opportunity to make use of actual and documented costs, because it would be very difficult to generate such figures because of the time that has passed. If part of these investments has also been taken over by the operation in municipal accounts, this will further reduce the ability to generate such figures. Therefore, there is reason to believe that, in particular, the owners of old power plants have not had a real choice between two alternatives, but have been offered one option and thus also the NVE method of charging. There is also reason to point out that we would not have had an unexplained legal situation today if the NVE had used exactly the methods of valuation provided by the legislator. The unexplained legal status can therefore be removed for the future by NVE re-taxing in line with the legislator’s decision. Furthermore, in our opinion, it is in principle unfortunate to propose changes to the law to ensure that disputed practices do not conflict with the applicable law. This may give an unfortunate signal that it is not always as important to follow the Bill of the Storting. This is particularly unfortunate when the legislative amendment proposal comes after the review of the Central Office of Big Businesses has disregarded the changes in the calculation method for determining the tax input value made by the NVE. It is against this background that the Central Party will oppose the proposal in Chapter 1 of the Proposition on New Sections 18 to 8 of the Tax Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e241	The case spokesperson, Tore Nordtun, has in a brilliant way done well for what is the position of the plurality and also the SV in this matter, but I thought I should only elaborate a little on what our SV's assessments have in relation to the recommendation as it stands. SV also considered whether it would be appropriate to ask for the matter to be heard. I agree so far with a part of what both Hageseter and Morten Lund said that an absolute should. But when you look at the extent of it and the time it would have taken if you had done it now, we didn't find in SV that it was a good way to solve it. Some of the correspondence with the Minister of Finance also shows that a large majority of taxpayers are largely satisfied with the GAV determination that has been made, and do not complain. And the fact that we haven't heard a pipe from LVK, which knows to know how much time it is in this house when we talk about taxing power plants, gives me a good feeling of stomach that a lot of taxpayers are happy. I don't think they're very happy, but at least they can live with having to pay the tax that they're charged. Those who complain have an unexplained situation. They'll have to deal with it in the court system. We're not going to get involved in that. But I thought the multiples have come in a very good way to meet these taxpayers by one of them asking the government to come back with an assessment of and an explanation of the outcome when the court has said it. That's when one can do it. Then I expect the government to take the decision that the court will reach. Then it will be entirely possible for us to make decisions in relation to those who may have received legal support. But we don't know anything about that, and we're not going to mean that much either, because it's the court's task. I would also like to try to mitigate this fear a little so that this could affect future investments and power prices. So we're talking about 15 tax surfaces, and we're talking about about about 160 that don't have complaints, so the dimension of this is relative to the power price being affected, I think we're going to dampen a little bit. I think there are other things that should be taken into account. So SV lives well with the setting of the plural, as we boast.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e252	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e268	The Odelstingsproposition on which the nomination of the Defence Committee is based presents two proposals for amendments to the Peace Service Act and the Working Environment Act respectively. The configuration of the Committee shall be unanimous in all respects and in accordance with the proposals of the Government. As rapporteur, I would therefore just like to briefly explain some of the issues at the time of the suspension. The first change is on the length of the contract period. In the present situation, a contract period longer than two years cannot be committed and the period of active service must not exceed one year. A unanimous committee supports the Ministry of Defence's proposal to extend the maximum length of the contract from two to three years and the limit of the active service period within the contractual period from one to two years. Under this point, there is a unanimous committee to support the Ministry of Defence's assessments that greater flexibility is needed in terms of the contractual regime and that the defence manager must be free to adapt the contract regime to military needs, operational requirements and an assessment of the operation in question on a case-by-case basis. In this context, I also consider it appropriate to point out that a unanimous committee assumes that corporates and private individuals who conclude contracts on a new basis should not lose their place of study as a result of an extended period of service. The second part of the proposal deals with changes to the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act. Here, too, a unanimous committee supports the Ministry of Defence's proposal to extend the right of leave to 24 months. The Committee has also unanimously supported the proposal to remove the rules on the right to leave from Section 65 A of the Working Environment Act. 1 and 2 and instead introduce a purely discretionary provision as a new section 33 E of the Working Environment Act. In conclusion, let me just refer to a unanimous remark relating to a point that employees who wish to continue in a position from which they are licensed are obliged to inform the employer about this before the service starts. The Committee has pointed out here what responsibility this means for the defence, while not requiring obvious misunderstandings and lack of information to provide the employer with a purely formal basis for dismissal. On this basis, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 179]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e301	The odelsting shall then vote in cases Nos.1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e308	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Ranveig Frøiland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The government asks the Government to promote any supplementary amendments to the law on occupational retirement provision in order to ensure the right to earned benefits for members of a pension scheme without the issue of free policies. The issue of free policies to retired members of the pension scheme is not amended.» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e397	Point (c) of the second subparagraph is amended as follows: One, from the Workers' Party. The Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they will go against the entire section 2-12. It is therefore the first to vote on the proposal from the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 24 March 2000 16 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows: point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 2 to 12 shall be replaced by the following: the legislation of the pension schemes shall be designed to avoid discrimination between employees as far as possible in relation to the total pension rate in relation to the remuneration and the period of service of the undertaking.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e419	It is then voted on the Committee's position on § 2-12. The President has understood that the Labour Party will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e443	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e473	The Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e506	The Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e746	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e756	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e834	The Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e865	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e876	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e972	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e982	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-lower.ana.ud397e1116	Thus, today's map has been processed.
