ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e77	The President will propose the election of two presidents of Odelstingen’s meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e82	I propose Grethe Fossli and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e87	Grethe Fossli and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Grethe Fossli and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e95	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e98	On behalf of Per Sandberg and myself, I promote proposals for changes to the Law on Municipalities and Municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e117	It might be good to have a few dollars in your wallet to pay in the cash register, and many people would probably also prefer that way of paying in the future. But instead of having money in your wallet, it's possible to store the money electronically on a card or on another electronic device. So we're dealing with e-money. A more precise definition is ‘a prepaid purchasing power in the form of a stored monetary value on an electronic device’. I have to say that I have doubts as to how widespread such a method of payment will be as an alternative to an account-based card. But since in the e-money system there is no need for a central provider device, there are some administrative costs to track through this system. The bill that we are now dealing with will regulate the right to start a business that has the task of running out electronic money, i.e. e-money raisers, and the supervision of such a business. With some exceptions, the law does not apply to banks and other credit institutions, although they also have the right to do so. Their activities are already regulated by the Finance Act. The size has previously joined the EEA Directive on the ability to start and exercise activities as an e-money institution and the supervision of such activities, called the Money Directive. As stated in the proposal, the deadline for implementing the directive in Norwegian was just 27 April 2002, so we are probably a little late. But I hardly think that there has been any special activity to start such a business. This bill will implement rules corresponding to the directive. During the examination process in the Committee, some clean-up has been proposed. There has been a consistent use of the word e-money saying about this enterprise. Furthermore, «healthy and reasonable» has been replaced by «healthy and sound». Some might say that the reasonable has been lost in the course of the defense, but it is certainly a financial committee that is quite appropriate. Otherwise, some edits have been done in the process. The Committee endorses most of the legislative proposal, with some clarifications in the form of a note and a proposal for amendments to the laws covering three paragraphs. This change is due to the fact that customers and user locations in bankruptcy of an e-money market will be ordinary creditors in the arc of the e-money market and that their position will be governed by the general bankruptcy law. The Committee therefore believes that user cities, and especially customers, need to be adequately informed that claims on an e-money market do not have as good protection as e.g.. bank deposits. Such obligation to provide information must also apply to banks and credit institutions, and violations of the obligation must result in penalties. When this is the case, I refer you to the setting, which the Committee refers to in its comments. But I want to label one area. The Committee has been busy not becoming a money laundering tool. One refers to the work undertaken by the Ministry of Finance in connection with the Law on Preventive Measures against Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, and suggests that the Government will come back to the Stortinge with the necessary proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e138	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 55]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e154	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of lines with up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each group of parties and after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e165	This case concerns the amendment of the real estate law in order to ensure better consumer safety in the purchase of property, with new claims on the broker as an unhidden intermediary in the marketing of real estate. The Committee broadly supports the proposals that have come from the Ministry, but in some areas the Committee will go a little further. For most of us, the purchase of housing is the largest transaction we make in life, so the requirement for real estate agents as an independent intermediary who possesses the necessary skills is very crucial. But it demands that real estate agents deal with strict legislation, and that they possess the necessary knowledge to provide the necessary advice through a often hectic but demanding process. Some headlines in the media over the last few years may suggest that both the professional and the moral level of some real estate agents is not the way it should be. Whether this is justified or not is another discussion. Anyway, as long as there is doubt about the professional and moral level, this is a burden on the industry. It means, in my view and that of the majority, that there is a need to tighten up the law, for the benefit of both the real estate industry as such and consumers. The interesting thing is that the property industry itself and the Consumer Council, i.e. the consumer authorities, agree on most of these issues. They would have liked to see a further tightening of the law that is here. We have succeeded in some points to come any further, but unfortunately there is not a majority for all the proposals that the rapporteur would like to see adopted. The proposals for which it is a majority and which come from the Ministry are an intensification of the suitability to operate property undertakings, the duties and responsibilities of the professional manager of an undertaking, and a very important change of transparency in the bidding round which enables those who suspect that not everything has taken place to verify them. In addition, the majority of the Committee has made proposals to prohibit proprietary trade in property for real estate agents. The majority want to protect the title ‘property brokers’ in the same way as is currently the law protection of the title ‘statutory real estate agents’. These are two very important changes to help the industry clean up a somewhat refined reputation, it is justified or unjustified. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to establish a majority in favour of proposals for which, in my opinion, it is completely incomprehensible that the Financial Committee has not given its support. In particular, it concerns the proposal for a voluntary out-of-court dispute resolution mechanism, which would have ensured that consumers had one body to deal with, ensuring that this body had the necessary competence. Today there are several such bodies, not least lawyers have their own. On the part of the minority, we would have liked to have seen that there had been one body in which to resolve these kinds of disputes together, without the consumer accidentally ended up in one or the other body without actually being aware of it. In many respects, the consumer is at odds with this. In the view of the minority of the Committee, this would have been a very important change, for which it has unfortunately failed to establish a majority. I guess the majority here, and also on other points, will justify their view, so I just want to take up what is the majority's view in the vote, and also what is the minority's view of these points. Nor has it been possible to establish a majority in favour of a tightening of the law against lawyers and others engaged in mediation and their ability to engage in other real estate business. This isn't a very widespread phenomenon, but at the same time it's a problem that can still apply in individual matters, simply because it can lead to suspicion that you have more roles to play. This conversation is unfortunate. It's not very common, but at the same time it's a minority view that if you've chosen to do real estate, it should obviously be what you're doing, and not other business related to property. In the opinion of the minority, it would be a good thing if you had been banned, simply because you could have been sure that there were no more motives and different roles. It is in the view of the minority that we have not succeeded in establishing a majority for this. It is also a pity that it has not been possible to establish a majority in order to ensure the competence of those who are professional leaders, in order to ensure that the many advice and guidance provided through this process is qualified, thereby ensuring that the property process as such is best suited to both the broker and, not least, to the consumer. The sum total is a legislative change that is important and necessary. This means that there will now be better overall protection for the consumer in the case of the purchase and sale of property. It's important. But at the same time, there are several things here that should have been even more exacerbated, and the interesting thing is that consumers and the real estate industry themselves think it is necessary. This is an industry that is struggling with a somewhat plentiful reputation, and that needs help from Odelstinget to get a better law and regulation that makes these transactions more secure. For the consumer, it is infinitely important that you have competent people assisting in these kinds of transactions, simply because buying property is the biggest economic transaction most of us do in life. These are big things, complicated things, and if you compare it to a lot of other purchases you make through a life, it's clear that the process here in itself is quite crucial. You might get a little stressed out, you get a little sticky in your hands, because there's a lot of money going on, and there's a lot of people participating in the bidding round. This means that those who are to assist in the sale, and also assist in the purchase, must have great competence, simply because each of us will not have sufficient insight into it. The sum total is a lot of what's here, good. It should have been better, and I think that when we give this law some time, there may be a need for further tightening, simply because I believe the industry and the consumers will have an interest in it. With this, I recommend the setting, but will make note of a small error that we have been made aware of by the Ministry of Finance, and that concerns the cancellation of § 2-12. Here the setting of a proposal for § 2-12 which is distributed in the hall is replaced – I mention proposal No. 3 on behalf of the Workers' Party, SV, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. Then I'll take up suggestion number. 1 in the vote, with the exception of the part of the proposal which expires after the repeal of the fourth paragraph of Section 2-7.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e201	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e204	The background to Odelstinget's handling this law on changes in the law on real estate mediation today is that the Credit Authority has had the impression that there were changes after the law has now been in effect for 12 years. The Consumer Council has also made some comments in relation to the fact that the promise can work better. From the point of view of the consumer, trust in the broker as a free and independent intermediary in the marketing of immovable property is an essential requirement for the functioning of the housing market. As the case spokesman says, there are too many of us so that the purchase of housing is the largest economic transaction we do in life, and there are actually very many of us who are not experts in this area. Therefore, it is necessary and safe for both parties to have an independent intermediary between the buyer and the seller. When it comes to the concrete legislative changes, there is a large deal in the committee, and the department gets the most out of what has been proposed. But that's some points that I'm going to comment on from the Workers' Party's point of view. When it comes to the duties and responsibilities of the professional leader, the Labour Party believes that a regulation should require the professional leader to have an adequate overview that the employees of the firm have the necessary competence to fulfil the brokerage obligation. So it's the professional leader who has to have and take this responsibility. When there is transparency in bidding rounds, the Labour Party is combined in what the case-speaker also said that there is a need for a regulation so that the right of access is present. This may contribute to the prevention of fraud in connection with the bidding process. This is not a big problem. I also don't think it will be, but I expect the department will benefit from this prescription home. In the case of a prohibition against other commercial activities, the Workers' Party believes that, submitted by the Credit Authority, to extend the circle of those who are to be prohibited from engaging in other commercial activities, the issue must be clarified before any amendment to the laws is proposed. It's clear that from the Workers' Party's side, we think that we need rules to guarantee the mercenaries' integrity. But it has to be more accurate than what's suggested by the minority, because it can be resented if it gets too rigid. That's what we think from the Workers' Party's side is not necessary, but one has to take care of what you're busy about, and it has to be more accurate. I expect the department to do that job, get it closer and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. We mean the same thing about lawyers running real estate brokering. According to the law of the day, brokers have the right to trade, i.e. sale and lease of own property through own enterprises. Although the volume of proprietary trade is small today, the Consumer Council believes that it is not necessary to allow such proprietary trade. The Labour Party believes that such a practice may be a threat to the property brokerage industry's reputation. Nor do we see the major practical problems of such a ban. Combined with dispensation, this will also help to ensure the trust of real estate agents. The last point I want to comment on is this with extrajudicial dispute resolution. We think there's a lot that can be done without a law to do it. Therefore, it is important that you look at whether the possibilities you have today are satisfactory. I'm not going to contradict the case spokesman in much of what he has said, but the Labour Party's point is that if this is a big problem, if it doesn't happen, we ask the Department to do the job – we trust that they can do it in an excellent way – and come back if there's a need for change of laws. But we didn't think the law was necessary to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e228	Just cards to Frøiland: the extra-judicial dispute resolution mechanism that the real estate agents and the Consumer Council want, because there are some who do not want to be part of it. It's especially the lawyers who have their own disciplinary class. It also applies to those not organised in the own organisations of real estate agents. This means that, as a consumer, one is awarded randomness as to where one is going, and what competence exists in different subjects. It is clear that the lawyers' disciplinary class mainly stands with things quite different from real estate. The lawyers say completely different things, simply because it's their role. But there are some lawyers who are dealing with real estate. We have wanted these to be part of the same subject, so that consumers' interests are safeguarded by a competent mention. It turns out that this process has been going on for a while, but you haven't gotten into a case, simply because there are so conflicting interests, especially between the lawyers and the real estate industry's own members. For this reason, it is completely incomprehensible to me why the Labour Party here chooses to support the special interest of the Bar Association and not what is the general view of consumers, namely that there should be one name. One as a consumer should not be given access to premises where one has to go in the context of review procedures in the case of the purchase or sale of property. That's why it's completely incomprehensible to say that the department has to look at this one more time, and come back if necessary. The ministry has taken a look at this. They do not want it while consumers want it, and the real estate industry itself wants it. The lawyers don't want it, because they'd like to have their own little laundromat in the discipline subject. Then it is very incomprehensible to me why the Workers' Party does not choose to take the consumer's side on this issue, but chooses to support the lawyer's special interest. It simply means that this provides a lower level of protection for the consumer than we could have now, if the Workers' Party had chosen to support this. This is an opportunity to ensure that this process runs on the rails, not that it should be possible to obstruct it on the part of individual particular interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e235	Now I had no problem supporting the Association of Lawyers, if that was what I was going to do, and that was good reason. I thought the way in which the case spokesperson chatted with that unit in relation to the consumers is a little unfurnished. In fact, I'm very busy taking care of my consumers' interests. In the light of the hearing statements, the Ministry of Finance states that these are among the issues that need to be addressed more closely. Then I thought it could be done. I do not decide which of these two to win, if there is to be a race to win, because it is important to take care of the interests of consumers. But I trust that the department will do that job in a proper way and come back to it. So I don't feel right when it's said that I don't take care of the consumer's interests, because we haven't said anything about who's going to win a fight from the Labour Party. That job of distribution does the department, and then one comes back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e242	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e245	Like the representatives of Djupedal and Frøiland, I would also like to stress that it is important for consumers to have competent and independent intermediaries when buying and selling housing. It is also a good thing that the Government is essentially supported by a broad majority of the Committee on the amendments that have been tabled. The rapporteur gave a brief and, to the extent also, a clear presentation of those proposals, so I am not going to go into them in more detail. I would rather deal with the areas of disagreement which have arisen during the Committee's proceedings. The main reason why government parties are opposed to several of these proposals – as I understand it is also the main reason behind the Workers' Party – is that they raise different issues that should be addressed more closely before drawing final conclusions. Not all proposals have been consulted, and the economic, legal and administrative consequences have not been properly addressed. Some also trigger a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy. In the view of the government parties, it is probably very rare that it is wise to adopt legal provisions directly in the Storting. The government has also announced that it is considering setting up a law selection with a view to a general revision of the law on real estate. I think all the proposals that have come up now could well wait for such an investigation. There's nothing urgent. The government parties are also of the opinion that the batches behind several of these amendments have not taken into account that there are major differences in real estate transactions, both in terms of types of property, between parts of the country and between brokers, and that these differences may have an impact on the law. For example, the minority in the Committee, the Advance Party and the SV believe that education and professional requirements should be laid down, not only for the professional leader – who is also in favour of the majority – but for all those involved in real estate mediation, and that the number of employees should also be laid down. It seems very bureaucratic and should at least not be regulated until it has been consulted. Then we also have a different proposal from everyone in the committee, except the government parties, that the titles «State-authorised real estate agents» and «property brokers» should be reserved to those who have real estate agents. Government parties seem to be very careful to regulate job titles in specific disciplines, both because there is no need for them to do so and because real skills and experience may be so important to the interests of consumers. This issue has not been discussed either. That the Advance Party will also reserve the word "brokers" for those with real estate agents, seems to be a bit curious. What about other types of brokers, like fundbrokers and shipbrokers, who also often just use the term broker? In this case, the minority in the Committee, consisting of the Party of Advances, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposes a total ban on all persons engaged in real estate brokerage from engaging in other activities. The government parties agree that there must be rules that ensure the integrity of the brokers, but a general ban for everyone seems to us to be going far too far now, not least before you know the consequences of such a proposal. The minority has also proposed that the total prohibition apply to lawyers and all employees of law firms and brokers. The Consumer Council, on which the minority here rely, is of the opinion that lawyers who want to broker property have to make a professional choice. Yes, it's okay for them to say that! A number of people could be hit unnecessarily by such a ban. I have two examples that can illustrate that. In larger law firms, there are often only one or two lawyers involved in real estate. Why do all the others in the world have to be cut off from doing business? Or should a lawyer who runs alone in a smaller place, who has some real estate commissions this year, have to tell them off, with the disadvantages it can impose on the inhabitants of the place? The sellers and buyers have to go somewhere else, and the lawyers may have a problem after that, because they do not have a large enough portfolio to operate in such places. One should be careful so that not all lawyers end up in real estate, with the effect that the real estate agents can then obtain monopoly rights. Not least the Consumer Council, which is otherwise very concerned with competition, should perhaps pay some attention to this issue. So the minority says that you can just give exemptions. Yes, there can be many, and it's bureaucratic. If you want a liberal exemption, why do you have to have a ban every day? The majority of the committee, everyone other than the government parties, is in favour of a broker not being able to trade on his own, i.e.: sales/renting or purchases/sales by own enterprises. The credit supervision sees no reason to have such a prohibition, while the Consumer Council does — and according to the latter, there is no ‘great practical need to allow self-trading’. Perhaps the question should be asked the other way around: is there any great practical need to have such a restriction? It doesn't seem to be. But it can be impractical, not least in smaller places where there might be only one brokerage company or just one lawyer who takes a job. The majority do not make it easier for people in the districts with this proposal. I am disappointed with the Workers' Party, which has understood this in terms of the ban on other businesses, and at least it will have been investigated, but not in terms of own-trade. So finally, dispute resolution options, which were also up in the previous row, with Ranveig Frøiland. Today, the Complaints Department for Real Estate Services and the Disciplinary Department for Lawyers. A process is now in progress on a voluntary basis to establish a dispute resolution mechanism with a view to involving all actors. Unlike the minority, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Government Parties will await the outcome of that work before making a dispute resolution system mandatory. The minority says that such dispute resolution should be left to the actors themselves, which we fully agree with, but they will still legislate. Faith in the industry is not very great. This question isn't really solved either, so we think it might pay to get an investigation on this either. Mistletoe to the actors in a part of business as it is, at all, seems to be a horizontal feature of the comments and views of the rapporteur-general. It is probably the government's view that there is no aim to regulate all business in detail in the way it is presented in part of the proposals, even if there is never so much pushing consumers in front of them. Even worse when you want this type of regulation without any previous assessments and contacts with the business community itself. It is not very surprising that this type of proposal comes from SV. What's a little eye-catching is that this is a kind of business policy that the Progress Party now seems to be uncritical.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e285	This was really a strange post, because it was characterized by a lack of insight into the minority actually does. When the representative Larssen can make himself say that this is marked by mistrust of the industry, it is proven to be wrong. It's the industry itself that has wanted a lot of these tightening up of the law. The reason for this is that this industry has, for a long time, legitimately or unjustly, been struggling with a somewhat frivolous reputation. It has been suspended in many of the country's leading media through transactions that have been deficient, incompetent, and perhaps criminal. This is not the fault of the industry, of course it is of the individual actors in the industry who have this problem, but it creates problems for the whole industry. This means that we now experience that the real estate industry itself, together with the consumer interests, has wanted a tightening. Calling this mistrust of the industry is at best wrong. This is a process that has been going on for a long time. Many of the proposals to which the representative Larssen now wants to rally are part of a process that has been going on for a long time, which has been assessed both by the credit supervision, by the ministry, by the industry itself and by the consumer authorities. They have also been evaluated by the Law Association, which in most cases chooses to oppose this, because they want to have their own privileges. It is quite legitimate, but it is consumers' interest in these major economic transactions that must be the starting point of the Storting. We've just said that we want lawyers to make a choice and that they should participate in it the same way as everyone else. We do not want any prohibition on lawyers from brokering property, of course they must be allowed to do so, but then they have to make a choice. This will be in the overall interest of the industry and in the overall interest of the consumer. That's why I think it's strange that the representative Larssen uses this tone to describe the minority. We want to introduce some reinforcements into the law, but open to dispensation from the ministry, so that the industry knows what they have to do with. Unfortunately, the processes that have been going on for a period have not come to fruition. If these processes had come into being, this would not have been necessary. There are some — there is nothing to hide — large players in the real estate industry who do not want to do so, and there are some special interests attached to lawyers who do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e292	It's not right, as Djupedal's representative says, that the proposals of the minority, and of a local majority, in addition to those of the ministry, are at the very best of the industry. They're not. They haven't been at the hearing, there's a big disagreement about them, and they're not really figured out. The main reason why we are actually going against these proposals now is that they have not been on proper consultation. We haven't heard what you mean, and it's actually disagreement. So it's true that the real estate industry wants a hard-line dispute resolution. As I said, it's not just real estate agents that are doing mediation, it's also doing the law firm, and they're on their way to finding a solution together, on a voluntary basis. Why can't you let them try to figure it out before you possibly go through with legislative proposals? We don't understand the need to have legal regulations in places where maybe the industry itself can reach an agreement, and where you get a good protection for the consumer. Please listen to what I'm saying: it's probably the industry is solving these things on its own, if you think you don't have a good enough way to do it. That's what they're trying to do. If it doesn't work out, then the Storting may have to come in. However, several of the other proposals have not been consulted. I think it would have been rather sad if these legislative amendments had received a majority, and that it had led lawyers to stop dealing with real estate brokering – the representative himself says they have to make a choice. This would lead to quite a number of disadvantages for people in smaller places, and one would have a monopoly, which I do not believe is in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e301	It's quite strange to hear that a leading government party appears in Stortinget as a mere under-use of the Norwegian Lawyers' Association. I must say that I have not heard that before, and I hope Mrs. Larssen can correct that in her reply to me, because this is what she is now saying. This matter has been widely discussed. The real estate brokerage industry has been consulted in the Financial Committee, they have issued written consultation opinions to the Financial Committee and all these proposals have been evaluated by the industry itself. The Association of Lawyers has slept in the hour – they themselves said in the evening post not so long ago – they were not aware that this matter was being dealt with. They came last little by letter to the Finance Committee, commenting on the various questions that lie here. That means that almost everything Mrs. Larssen said right now is proven wrong. Either she's also slept an hour, or I don't know. None of these issues has been designed by the Financial Committee as such, they have been taken into account in the long process that has taken place through contact with the Consumer Council and the property brokers’ own organisations. That means that when the minority promotes this, it's because we believe from an overall assessment that this will benefit the total reputation of the real estate industry, and will be a security for the consumer. Our perspective has been that this is consumer protection of the best brand. And when we experience some peculiar things that often don't appear in the public, namely that consumer interests and property brokers' own organisations are agreed, it's basically a strong signal that the Storting should actually do a little bit more tightening than what the Government has proposed. I think that Mrs. Larssen had made a good job of following a little bit better in the class, like the Lawyers' Association, which came a little late on the track. I think that right as a party had earned something more to appear to be an independent party and not a mere under-use of the Norwegian Law Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e312	If the Right appears to be an under-use of the Association of Lawyers, I would say that it almost sounds as if SV appears to be an under-use of the Association of Real Estate Agents. It is no wonder that the real estate agents want monopoly, so they have monopoly over this kind of trade. That's what we don't want, and it has nothing to do with us being an under-use of the Law Association. We actually want competition in this market. We don't get that if you're going to forbid lawyers to do this kind of real estate trade. The fact that there are more people involved in real estate trade actually seems to me to strengthen the interests of consumers. But once again, these proposals have not been properly investigated. You don't know all the consequences of them. Even SV says that you should have a wide dispensation access for some things. Why, in all days, do you have to impose a ban, when this ban is about to have no effect because there is a wide scope for exemption? That's what we want to figure out, and I actually think you should do that. One would have to wait for the legislative committee that might be set up by the Government to go through this whole law, so that a broad and good debate could be given with all the points of view promoted in the case, so that consumer interests would be safeguarded and that there would be no monopoly in the property industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e319	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e322	The Real Estate Act was established in 1989, and in this proposal the Government has proposed some updates to which the rapporteur has given a good account. The main purpose of the changes now being made is to protect the interests of consumers in relation to the purchase and sale of property. What is somewhat surprising about this debate is that all parties who have spoken in the debate are trying to give the same impression, namely that they are very concerned about consumers' interests related to the purchase and sale of property. At the same time, however, the majority do not intervene in a number of areas to strengthen consumers' interests, but appear to be more concerned with particular interests in different parts of the business involved in real estate. That's why it was very alarming to hear the comments from the representative Larssen, who both rallied and made accusations in relation to the intentions of the minority, and I have to say that it might be a little too good to do. One claim that came from Heidi Larssen was that the minority had not taken inward that there were major differences in this market. Yes, of course it is, but it becomes quite entertaining when Heidi Larssen from the Right Party suddenly becomes very concerned with pushing ahead of the parts of the country where real estate is very transparent, where the number of transactions is very few, and where these problems hardly occur. However, the reason why much of this is the subject of debate is the situation in the larger cities, in the press areas, where the number of transactions is extensive. And precisely because they are extensive, it is unfortunately on repeated occasions that consumers' interests are weakened as a result of unlucky behaviour by individuals. It is not the case that the Progress Party has suddenly been engaged in the conduct of anti-business policies. Thus, in a number of other areas of industrial legislation, the Finance Committee and the Storting have advocated a significant tightening of the law, not to weaken the basis of nutrition, but to make the rules clear and, not least, to make sanctions available as clearly as possible. It helps to strengthen the rules for all those involved in that market, whether commercial interests or consumer interests, and it should also be more concerned with the Right and Government parties than they appear to be in this matter. The Progress Party largely supports the amendments tabled by the Government. I would also like to say that Heidi Larssen's attempt to suggest that many of these proposals have not been at the hearing is a bit sought after. In the proposals put forward by the Government itself, many of the issues are concerned, but the hearing bodies have different conclusions to those of the ministry itself. These conclusions have been taken into account in the final consideration of the bill by the Storting. They have been duly presented to the Financial Committee, both in writing and orally, and have again been given the result that a minority wish to promote legislative amendments to it. It cannot be said to be a bad treatment of a matter. With regard to the provision of a regulation on the professional manager, yes, the Party of Advancement assumes that it is actually used. There are few restrictions on the organisation of mediation activities and it is necessary to ensure that the mediation obligation is adequately fulfilled in all such activities and that it must be the responsibility of the professional manager. The promotion party is in the committee position for a further regulatory home, namely that it should also require other employees of the real estate brokerage companies to have sufficient competence. There was no majority for that. But I would like to point out that in the proposition it is provided that the regulation on the professional manager should also include requirements for other employees, and this opening should, in my opinion, be used by the Credit Authority. We also support the proposal on transparency in bidding rounds. Here too, I assume that the home will be used, because there is an increasing need to have rules that ensure that the bidder can trust that the bids are real. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples of that not happening. So for titles. Where the title ‘statutory real estate agents’ is protected by law, there is room for great misunderstanding when the titles ‘property brokers’ and ‘brokers’ are also used. The regular buyer and the seller rarely have the prerequisites for distinguishing the different titles in this way, and once a state authorisation has been introduced, which should appear as a security for the public, it must be quite clear that the legislator also prevents any obvious misunderstandings. I don't see very good reasons to let these terms flourish among unskilled brokers, there are enough of other titles that can be used. We have therefore proposed that the titles «proprietary brokers» and «brokers» should also be reserved for those who have letters of title, as is the title «statutory real estate agents» today. In the vote, it is proposed that the title ‘proprietary brokers’ should be reserved for those who hold real estate agents’ letters, and of course we will support this proposal subsidiaryly. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes it is important for the public to be able to trust that those who hold a possession of property brokerage have no self-interest in the brokerage they are to carry out. For the buyer and seller to have this security, we propose, on the one hand, that employees of real estate agencies should not be able to engage in other activities unless they are granted a derogation. Secondly, we suggest that these persons should not be able to engage in self-trade, but this too is possible to dispensate from. This may mean that a proposal does not have much practical significance, but at least it will have a significant symbolic effect. In addition, we propose that the ban currently applicable to real estate agents against the pursuit of other commercial activities should also apply to lawyers engaged in real estate transactions. I can see no reason to discriminate against brokers and lawyers on this point. So in addition, lawyers can also get a waiver. I refer then to Heidi Larssen's concern about how lawyers with small portfolios should continue to practice in smaller places. Finally, the Progress Party, together with others, has proposed in the vote that a dispute resolution mechanism be established for disputes against real estate agents. We believe that it is a good arrangement for consumers to establish a name that can deal with such disputes effectively and cheaply outside the legal system. A similar arrangement is in operation today, and it is already in the process of preparing the organisation of an extended note which may also include lawyers. I expect that new and more comprehensive topics will be in place before 1 November 2003, as we have proposed as a deadline. In order to be as effective as possible, we agree that it must be a condition for the pursuit of real estate activities that real estate agents should allow any disputes to be resolved by this consideration. Unfortunately, we are in a minority with regard to several of the proposals put forward by the Financial Committee. I note, however, that the Labour Party and the government parties in the suspension have asked the Government to examine a few of the proposals in more detail. And I think at least that should happen relatively quickly, too much indicates that the property law that is in force today is not fully adapted to today's housing market. Finally, I refer to the minority proposals of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e353	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e356	Most people are affected by housing purchases. It has repeatedly pointed out today that the purchase of a house or apartment for many is the greatest investment they make, one or a few times in life. It is important that the purchase and sale of the dwelling take place safely and in a good way. In recent years, there has been a large increase in the turnover of dwellings, which in turn has led to an increase in the number of real estate agents in the industry. Not everyone has been equally serious. Furthermore, there have been no specific demands on the professional manager, and in several cases the same person has been the professional director of several companies at the same time. This has sometimes led to poor service and poor professional follow-up from the broker. It is therefore quite appropriate that we now have a change in the law on real estate. It is gratifying that the Government has had a positive impact on important proposals to strengthen the interests of housing buyers and sellers. The purchaser of the dwelling is entitled to a serious and professional good service. It is therefore good that greater demands are now made on professional management, and that they are required to be suitable for owners of real estate agencies. This will increase the quality of brokerage services. Housing buyers and sellers are entitled to independent intermediaries when buying or selling dwellings. The consumer's confidence in the real estate agent is a necessary condition for the safe trading of dwellings. That's why it's important that we have rules that guarantee the broker's integrity. The interests of the consumer or the purchaser of the dwelling are also put into focus by cleaning up the laws in grey zones related to the real estate agencies. Housing purchases are usually determined with bidding rounds. Unfortunately, there is reason to believe that not all these bidding rounds have been properly completed. It is therefore very important that the new law ensures that the purchaser of the dwelling has a regular right of access to the bidding rounds, so that any false bids to extinguish the price can be more easily disclosed. This also strengthens the interests of the purchaser and creates greater security. There is a majority today to go even further than the government has proposed, in view of the fact that a broker should not be able to trade himself. Government parties do not see the need for such a prohibition. Such a prohibition could make it difficult for local brokerage companies in the districts, and with such a ban, there will be many dispensations applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e373	Matters have periodically been raised that have highlighted the behaviour of real estate agents in relation to the transfer of real estate. The industry has experienced an adventurous market in recent years. Prices of apartments and dwellings have increased steadily. The brokers have collected very large profits – the higher the prices, the higher the profits. However, as prices and profits rise, it is difficult to see the quality of services increasing. Several cases have given more good reason in recent years to ask questions about the brokerage services, both in terms of the moral and professional work of the brokers: people who are tricked into believing that they have sold at a good price – and then to experience that the property they just sold has been put out for sale again by the same broker shortly later, and then to be sold for a far higher price broker who takes the peach to demand money under the table to carry out the transaction as buyers want brokers who give advice that does not help, but also put people in trouble when the problems arise. I would like to stress that of course it is not an entire industry that acts as I have now mentioned. But the industry as a whole suffers from the fact that there are people who act like brokers, who act this way. It requires a review and tightening of the existing legislation. And it's good that the brokerage industry itself is behind the desire for an improved regulatory framework. The central party considers that it is important that the legislation takes better care of consumers' interests than it is at present. Most people don't have specific knowledge of this economic transaction, which for most people is the largest they ever carry out. Therefore, it is particularly important that brokers as intermediaries are independent and competent. The centre party has on several points wanted to go further than the government has proposed. It is precisely because consumers’ interests are not adequately safeguarded in the Government’s proposals. I would like to mention some points where the centre party is clearly on the consumer side: First, it is necessary to clean up the use of titles, so that it can be seen what kind of education the middleman has, and that education has been completed. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that these requirements need to be clarified in the legal text. Secondly, there must be no reason to question the independence of a broker. Therefore, the Centre Party, together with the SV, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party, have made proposals in line with the proposal of the Credit Authority, on a general ban on other activities. Thirdly, the Government has proposed that the Ministry should provide guidelines on transparency in bidding rounds. The centre lot will underline the need for such a regulation to be drawn up. I assume that the department uses this prescription home. Finally, I would like to draw up an out-of-court dispute resolution system. The centre party welcomes the work in progress to establish such a named voluntary body. At the same time, however, we believe that we must show that we want to put pressure on the actors to bring about such a system. The parties to the dispute consider that membership of this dispute mechanism must become one of the conditions for the authorisation of real estate brokerage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e407	Now that the Government is promoting some proposals for changes to the real estate law, it has a connection with an initiative taken by the Credit Authority, with proposals that we largely follow up on. The law is over 12 years old. The government has announced in the proposition that we have an assessment of a general review of the law, and I can inform you that we will first set up a law selection to review the whole law as a whole. Of course, several of the proposals that have been promoted but are not adopted will have the full opportunity to be evaluated at that time. The advantage of such work is also that everyone is heard, not only those who turn to the committee during the examination, but also that a legal review of how a law should work. Well, law and law are in many ways interrelated. That is also a political reason. I want legislation that is accurate, i.e. where exemptions are not the general rule. I want legal regulations that ensure minimum bureaucracy, not as much bureaucracy as possible. And such balances must be made in such legislative work. When the Government has now proposed setting requirements for the suitability of owner-occupiers and that the credit supervision should be able to lay down rules on the duties and responsibilities of the professional manager and on the transparency of bidding rounds, it is in the light that we consider these changes to be particularly necessary. I have noticed that the committee position in all main points follows the government's proposal. On a few points, there are exceptions, for example: on the issue of the protection of the title ‘property brokers’. That proposal shall be adopted by a majority. I'll take note of that. I just want to generally add that it is important to listen to business interests, and it is important to listen to industry. But other considerations must also be taken into account in a political balance. Consumer considerations are mentioned, but also competition considerations. I have experienced through a certain period of time in politics that it is not always that industry considerations are necessarily compatible with demands for reasonable competition. There should not be much insight into the market to see that the desire for strong protection can be an industry desire, but not necessarily a social one. These considerations will then be made in the future. On one point, I would like to take a very strong reservation, and this concerns the ban on other activities as well as mediation. For all practical reasons, it would be very inappropriate for consumers. To say that a lawyer, for example, not be able to engage in real estate brokerage because he is employed in a law firm with 120 employees – the number is randomly chosen, but it is from the real world – and because the other 119 do not engage in real estate brokerage but are engaged in legal activities such as: includes transactions of a significant scale greater than dealing in real estate, seems pointless. To say that a person with legal education for six to seven years should not be able to engage in that type of trade, but that persons with a number of lower education should be able to do so, even if they have not put something normative into it, but at least shorter education, is also meaningless. I will also take a practical example in addition to the examples mentioned by the representative Larssen. Often, property trading is linked to the settlement of a death dwelling. It is often quite reasonable to let lawyers take care of the estate, in part also lawyers. And then you could say that the lawyer can do anything but sell the apartment, the house – also something that would seem quite meaningless, both in small and large places. But when that is said, I do not exclude that the current review of the law may cover several of the other issues mentioned, and could include proposals other than those which have also been addressed in the Committee's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e426	There are basically several things that might have been desirable to address with the Council of State. But let me just pick up what he chose to pay attention to, namely this ban on doing other activities when one has chosen to do business with the turnover of the dwelling. This issue has been widely considered. The credit supervision chooses not to support this prohibition. On the other hand, the Consumer Council is quite clear that they believe this is correct. If you look at the total turnover of dwellings in Norway from the last statistical year available, which is in 2000, there will be 72 748 placements by real estate agencies; it will be 10,836 carried out by firms with a lawyer as a professional manager, while there are only 3,302 placements by lawyers, i.e. lawyers who are not in legal practice for the rest. This means that this is a relatively small proportion of the total turnover of dwellings. In general, I think lawyers handle this professionally, and it's not my wish to say that this will not be handled professionally at all. The reason why this is a problem is this unfortunate suspicion of a mix of roles. Most of us have to choose a profession at some point in our lives. This means that there is no desire for lawyers not to be able to distribute housing, but it is a desire to then choose to do so, and not to do other business. This is, of course, in order to have a safety net to prevent any mix-up or suspicion of a mix-up, or that situations may arise where this becomes a topic in a way. Our wish is that this should not be a topic. Any provision of housing, whether through a real estate agency or a lawyer, shall have the same security of knowledge, competence and inadequacy. That's why this has become a topic. That's why the Credit Authority spent a lot of time discussing this. They're probably not going to be equal to the minority. The Consumer Council concludes equally with the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e437	The representative, Djupedal, was in his main post very concerned that we had to listen to neutral organs. I perceive the credit supervision as a neutral body in this regard, which takes into account both competition, commercial interests and consumer interests – the last to the greatest extent. Therefore, the Credit Authority’s investigation in this context is in line with what the Ministry and the Government conclude. I do not agree with the main starting point that because you have a long education, you have to choose not to engage in the type of business that is part of the sales of property. I actually believe that having a long education also gives some insight into being able to do property business. It's probably true that in most major places it's always a real estate agency to go to over a law firm, but there's little comfort in those places where there's only a lawyer, and maybe no major real estate agencies see market interest in running. Then there is little consolation in statistics that says that well, the majority of cases are treated anyway in cities. At least I think that in this context is also a small tab of a district policy, where I don't recognize SV in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e444	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 60]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e462	In dealing with this issue of gender neutrality in private service pension schemes, we take a long step forward in gender equality in the field of pensions. A collective committee is busy finding schemes that do not treat women and men differently as pensioners, nor does it lead to female labour becoming more expensive than men. The Act on Retirement Pension, adopted in 2000, opened up a direct discrimination between women and men who had until then been unknown in this country, because our service pensions had until then been performance-based. The Act on Pensions was based on the fact that women and men who have exactly the same salary at retirement age, the same savings in pension capital and the same actual life expectancy should not be entitled to the same annual pension payment because women live on average longer than men. The issues of non-discrimination, proportionality and neutrality in relation to sex were given a whole new dimension as a result of the rules for defined contribution pension schemes. Such discrimination was the reaction of several parties during the treatment of the law on indemnity pension, and the government of Stoltenberg later put down the Kvidal selection to see if one could bring some of these problems to life. The proposition we have before us today takes on board the proposal put forward by the Kvidal Committee, although that is not primarily the best proposal. The Kvidal selection simply concludes that collective pension schemes in employment situations where annual payments are equal to those of the two sexes, and where this results in equal annual benefits, are the only schemes that fall within it can be understood as equal treatment in the case of pensions. However, the selection also concludes that schemes where different annual payments give equal annual payments are more acceptable from the point of view of equality than schemes where one has equal annual payments and different annual payments for the two sexes. The majority in the Committee share this view, and support the legislative proposal in its soundness as it is led by the Government. The gender equality issue had this proposal as one of its options for non-discrimination between sexes in its hearing statement, as set out in the 2000 Interinstitutional Pensions Act. The gender equality issue also states that this proposal must be seen as a positive special treatment to promote gender equality. We didn't get it that time, so there's good reason to enjoy that we're getting this in place today. However, the majority have assessed the negative impact of such a proposal, namely that the proposal alone leads to higher labour costs for women in the labour market than for men. But we're pointing out that both the Department and the Kvidal Committee have looked at it and are assessing the risk of depleting female labour to be small. We could not deal with this matter without scoring that the Labour Court has ruled on the transfer of municipal service pension schemes from KLP to life insurance companies. The majority in the Committee have noted positively that the Government has warned the social organisations that it wants to give all life insurance companies the opportunity to offer gender and age-neutral pension contributions in the public sector. However, a number of other members of the Committee stress that even in the private sector, there must be a few opportunities to choose and propose gender and age-neutral contributions service pension schemes. The proposal is to ask the Government to come back with proposals for new rules for insurance enterprises that open up for insurance corporations and pension funds to provide pension schemes with gender and age-neutral contributions, both in the private and public sectors. Finally, I will say two words about what has led to SV now being able to support the submission of a higher premium for women than for men in pension schemes. We voted against that proposal, the one that was in the law on the deposit pension in 2000, but after reading both the NOU from the Kvidal Committee and having had a conversation with others. The gender equality issue was overstated that this is actually what we can do in this round – given the law on the pension and the rules that lie there. It also has to do with the fact that the years' practice of life insurance companies to use gender as a variable in risk-measurement is still under way. What is decisive for us, however, is that we have got multiples for the proposal to change the operating rules in line with what I just did. We are very pleased about that. I think that's all possible reason both for the committee and for the SV to be happy with the setting that's set.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e501	The centre party disagrees with the conclusion reached by SV. When it is now said in the post that it will be impossible to obtain gender-neutral contributions in addition to gender-neutral pensions, I would just like to remind you that the Federation of Enterprises, Health and Social Services, the LO, the YS, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Swedish National Agency say that the disadvantages and difficulties in getting it to no greater than the fact that it has to be chosen anyway. So will the Center Party. On 3 May the Centre promoted its own proposal to establish the principle of gender neutrality in premiums. That case was not dealt with in substance, for three days later a letter came from the department that they would propose something in this case. Then it turns out that our proposal was justified, because the department had not investigated what the Stortinget asked for – the majority of the Stortinget asked for an investigation into gender-neutral premiums. As the representative just said, SV, together with the Central Party for two years, held the position that gender-neutral premiums were necessary. We had the same attitude, and we voted against the paragraph that opened up to claim the higher premium of women than of men. But now SV means something quite different. They also believe something quite different from what Grande Røys said in the June debate, where she said that there should be no difference between women and men in the pension contribution either.’ I have also seen a little in SV's program, where it says that SV will propose «the ban on gender-differentiated insurance premiums». In this case, SV has suddenly joined forces with the Advance Party and the Right, who have always believed that this has not been important. I would therefore like to ask the question: When will SV propose a ban on gender-differentiated insurance premiums?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e514	That's exactly what we're doing. The proposal that the majority have chosen to make in this setting is precisely that we are not in favour of any new distribution. I mean, what the center part does is stick your head a little bit in the sand. They admit in a way that no one has found better solutions than those that the Kvidal selection says are good enough, nor is it LO's proposal as presented in the proposition. On the contrary, a whole lot of negative aspects of this are precisely for women in working life by going straight on the LO model as proposed. What we have done is just to ask the Government to come back with proposals that open up new rules in insurance business where one should be able to offer gender and age-neutral premiums – not only in the public sector but also in the private sector. So what's the Central Party's favorite is in the majority's proposal, and I'm asking the Center Party to support that proposal. We don't need any more new arrangements. I think we've got some business to attend to. We have enough documentation. Support the proposal and let us get started!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e519	There is a big difference between what is in the SV's programme and what SV has said in the Stortinget earlier, and what is now in the proposal that is being presented. ‘Prohibition of gender-differentiated insurance premiums’, says SV’s programme, and that is also what SV has previously argued for. The proposal, which is now supported by others and which will also subsidise the Centre Party, states that a request from the Government will allow a company applying for it to receive the same exemption as KLP currently has to offer, if they so wish, gender-neutral pension contributions. It is quite different from saying – as the Centre’s main wish – that companies are obliged to have an offer to all on both gender-neutral and gender-neutral pensions. That is what we want primarily. There is something quite different than saying that if it is appropriate for your company, you should be allowed to apply to offer this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e524	I'm not going to cross-examine the debate. I'm not going to go back on what I said before, but what I want to ask Morten Lund about is, why doesn't the Center Party support at least that we're going to go in for the improvements in the deposit pension law that appeals to the majority today? Why is there an improvement in the law that we have, when we know that the Kvidal Committee has spent two years doing this, and we know that there will be major changes in the pension area next year both with the Pension Commission and the Banking Commission assessing public service pensions? Why, then, should the Central Party say that the law that lies there is so bad when it comes to equality that we are going to send it out on a new useless distribution? We have had enough work to do – we have the proposal, and if they support the proposal from the majority, the intention will be well preserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e529	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e532	The case spokesperson has done some good on this matter in a way that goes ahead. From the Labour Party's side, we are some with the case-speaker in all that has been said. The issue of gender neutrality in pension schemes is a very important issue of equality. Previously, when we had only performance-based pensions, this was no problem, because gender neutrality is a feature of the population, which includes all, and of the municipal sector in the case of arrangements in own companies. In the state, it's solved by having one's own law that triggers equal rights for women and men. It was when we got the in-line pension scheme that this problem arose, and it has been difficult to get it in place. So as far as one comes today, and as the case-speaker has gone through, this is a step in the right direction. It is clear that I am very pleased with what the government has said. When we look at this matter in relation to KLP, the government has said that they have warned the social organisations that they want to give all life insurance companies the opportunity to offer gender and age-neutral pension contributions in the public sector. It is positive that they will do this, because it is important for all companies to be able to do so rather than to sneak them in. We've never been concerned that there's only one company to do it. We have from the Workers' Party's side been concerned that everyone should have the possibility, so there are some with the Government in it. But then we are very surprised that not the government party, nor the central party subsidiaryly, supports the proposal of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party that the Government should come back with changes in the rules of business for life insurance companies that open up a general right to provide service pensions with gender- and age-neutral premiums. This should offer everyone. One doesn't need more information about this. Now requests that the Government return with this to Stortinget, preferably next year, or as soon as possible. I think this is an important step, and there's a great number in the Storting saying about both public and private pension schemes. I must say that I was basically very happy and surprised that we were able to get it done. But I'm very surprised that the government party, after what they've said about the public pension systems, says that they want to wait for some letters, and then they'll see if they're going to have a payment. Why in all the world should one have a statement? Just support the proposal that lies here, because it will benefit both public and private sexual neutrality!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e547	The representative of Frøiland says that in the media, gender-neutral pension contributions have been an important issue of gender equality. It's because it's more expensive to hire women today. It's still going to do according to what's suggested. There is a significant extra cost, as many employers say they will pay great attention to employment. That is why this has been an important matter. That's why it's been an important matter for many parties. When the Stortinger dealt with this two years ago, the Workers' Party said, among other things. att ‘it is important to identify schemes which do not discriminate between women and men, either in the workplace or as pensioners’. They went on to say, when it came to the sample to be appointed, that this sample had to make concrete proposals for legislative changes that could ensure equality in this area. These are the proposals that are missing. The Women's Movement of the Workers' Party wrote the following on 3 June 2002 in the Newspaper under the heading «An unfair distinction»: «Women's movement of the working party considers that it is necessary to legislate for insurance premiums to be gender-neutral.» That was insurance premiums they said. Why does the Labour Party not now believe the same thing as before in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e566	All I've done before when it comes to public pension schemes in the care of the people, is kind of in place. When a law on in-the-box pensions was passed, we saw that this was completely wrong with gender neutrality and the arguments Morten Lund has. If I don't think completely wrong, I guess the government of Stoltenberg followed up on what had been established by previous governments, where Morten Lund's party was in government. So this hasn't been so clear. It was the Bondevik government that gave the reason too much of it as crazy inbound pensions. So it hasn't been so clear that it's been easy to solve this. So put down the Kvidal selection, and one sees what they've come up with after two years, and when we can't make it better, Morten Lund will have a new deal. Then we say to others who are in a multiple: No, now we don't need any more representations. Now life insurance companies must have the opportunity to offer this because they have not had the opportunity before. So I thought we're now following up on what both women's movement and the party have said before. But it's Morten Lund who's been digging himself into a trap, as he's going to get closer, because he doesn't have answers to it. But there's an answer now, so we're going to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e573	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e576	I agree with the representatives of Grande Røys and Frøiland that it would have been okay if the Kvidal Committee – or others for that matter – had found a sensible arrangement where women and men would pay equal contributions and get equal pensions out. It is not clear, and the Government has chosen the best option, an obligation for companies with defined contribution schemes to make a higher contribution for women than for men. The most important thing has been to get equal annual payments for pensioners. From a gender perspective, it is more acceptable with different annual payments making equal annual payments than with equal payments and different payments. I am pleased that the majority supports the Government in this. What also surprises me, like the representative of Grande Røys, is that the centre party will not be involved in this change now. They also suggest that the Government carry out a new investigation. So knowingly and willfully, they want women to be able to make less annual payments than men, just because they are unable to get the best out of them. I have to say that is driving principles to the limit, and I'm glad that they stand alone about it. Then I understand that the majority is a little surprised that the government parties cannot participate in a proposal for changes to the rules that open up a general right to offer occupational pension schemes with gender and age-neutral contributions. First of all, the Kvidal Committee thought that a system of gender-neutral incentive rates was so complicated and administratively demanding that they were very sceptical about introducing it, and that is why we have received the legislative amendment that is on the table today. Secondly, the Banking Commission has been asked to draw up proposals for any action on issues related to the calculation of premiums and the relocation of KLP, which affect some of the same issues. Government parties therefore expect the Stortinget to have a new case brought before it in 2003 on the basis of the Banking Commission’s investigation. We want to await this work and this matter before we may have to ask for new proposals from the Government. The investigation that has been carried out so far does not provide an answer to this, so I am not quite sure how the majority of the committee expects this to be done. I think it is right then to await the Banking Law Commission's investigation to see if they are able to think smarter than the others have managed to think so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e589	On the same issue, that of gender neutrality also in the private sector. However, when the Progress Party has chosen to support the proposal, I would like to stress that this is a rule of chance, so it is not a requirement, it would not have been accepted by the Progress Party. We record the views of the Minister of Finance on this, and insofar as the views of the parties to the government are concerned. So, as the proposal is designed, it is not a matter for the Government – with a deadline – to come back to the Stortingen with this. That means that I expect the government to make its assessment of this issue and then present it to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner and at an appropriate time. So I just want to stress that this is the assumption on the part of the Progress Party, so it's not a wish that this should be a requirement for private life insurance companies. We think it's going to be going too far, but we want it to be an opportunity for the companies that find it useful, if that's how the Department and the Government also find it possible to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e599	Odelstinget will today legislate that it is good enough equality for women and men to be treated in the same way as pensioners, but not as workers. The majority also believe that women and men are discriminated against in the workplace with higher female pension contributions. The centre party believes this is to legislate gender discrimination. We believe that higher pension contributions will have a negative impact on women's professional opportunities. We propose to send the case back to the Government for the investigation the government of Stoltenberg announced two years ago, and the Stortinget would then wait. Two years ago, it was a majority who thought we were in the vote on the deposit pension law. The Labour Party stated that: ‘it is important to identify schemes which do not discriminate between women and men, either in the workplace or as pensioners. This sample must make concrete proposals for legislative changes, which can ensure equality in this area". [[...]] These are the proposals that are missing in the proposition. Christian People's Party, Left, SV and Center Party stated in the setting: ‘The Government must provide the Storting with an overview of how this can be carried out at a still equal premium for women and men.’ These four lots voted against the second paragraph of Section 5-3 of the Act, which gives access to a higher premium for women. There's no doubt that there was a majority who at the time were quite clear that both equal contributions and equal pensions are required to be good enough for equality. I've read a little bit in different game programs to figure out what's considered good enough equality in this area. In the Christian People's Party program I read: ‘The Christian People’s Party will work to ensure that private occupational pensions become gender neutral in line with public occupational pensions.’ And in public occupational pensions, the well-known principle of average calculation of contributions and pensions is followed. The SV program says that they want to «propose a prohibition on gender-differentiated insurance premiums». The position is very far from what is carried over in this position, where different pension contributions are assumed. But today we are asked that companies should later be given the opportunity on a voluntary basis to offer gender-neutral premiums. There is little power and will behind such legislation. Market actors are the ones to decide. On 3 June 2002, the Women's Movement of the Party of Workers wrote the following in the Newspaper under the title «Ineligible distinction»: «Women's movement of the working party considers that it is necessary to legislate for insurance premiums to be gender-neutral.» In the party's program, there is a lot about equality, but little about what it means in practice. Here too, several interpretations may be possible. My surprise and disappointment about the proposition and the attitude are also related to what was said in the Stortinget on 4 June this year when the Senter party's proposal to adopt a principle of gender-neutral pension schemes was discussed. The case-rapporteur, Heidi Grande Røys, from SV, clearly informed that SV would not be satisfied with non-discrimination in terms of pension payments. She said at the time ‘that there should of course also be no difference between the pension contribution’. Minister of Finance Foss concluded that the Government is following up what the Stortinget has asked for. So that's exactly what's not done. The government has not determined what the Storting would have determined. I quote from the proposition two years ago: ‘In addition, the Ministry will take the initiative to investigate the issue of gender-neutral contributions on a broad basis.’ It was the Stoltenberg government that promised. It's a shame that the majority of the population at the time two years ago didn't take the break in making decisions on gender-neutral premiums. The majority of the Kvidal Committee, following an initial analysis, concluded that practical arrangements and legal texts ensuring equal pension contributions were not to be fully investigated, this being based on the fact that the schemes were considered to be complex and costly and that the models in question could have adverse market consequences. The Ministry also argues that Norway’s international commitments are an obstacle. Despite the fact that the investigation on this issue was not completed, several hearing bodies have opted for full gender neutrality. These are Norwegian Business Federations, Norwegian Health and Social Associations, LO, YS, Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Swedish National Agency for Social Security. The Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs, under the leadership of the State Council of Davay, states the following: ‘The BFD does not consider that the complexity of a risk pool is so burdensome that we should not be able to choose this option.’ The centre batch in the notes has referred to an MMI study where 14 pst. Of 600 employers, they said that they want to pay high attention to the fact that women are more expensive to insure than men. Nearly half felt that different pension contributions were concentrated on employment. There is evidence in the proposition of the large differences in the premium payment that are required in certain cases. For example, 27 pst is required. a premium higher for women than for men when both are 30 years old and is assumed to be equal to the annual pension payment of 67 years old. The difference is 20 pst. extra if both are 50 years old. I think such an extra cost can be a significant reason why women are selected for employment. There is no doubt that this has happened and is still happening to a significant extent, with different reasons. I believe that society is losing a lot both economically and in other ways by the fact that women have not achieved pay and responsibilities in the workplace. Maintaining an extra cost of employing a woman to ensure equal pensions is, in the view of the Centre Party, the wrong way to go. Now it is necessary to close down all obstacles to real equality in the workplace. I find it regrettable that the Ministry has not been able to provide legal texts for those in the United Kingdom who now find the time to get the law to end discrimination between women and men in pension matters. The centre party does not want to go as far as SV has programmed, but will ensure that all companies are obliged to offer gender-neutral schemes with equal pensions and equal premiums. I then take up the proposal of the Central Party that this should be investigated for urgent consideration in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e668	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e671	About two years ago, the Stortinget asked the then government, the Stoltenberg government, to set up a sample to investigate the issue of gender neutrality in occupational pension/employment pensions. That proposal was followed up – the Kvidal Committee examined, had a very complicated work and came to a conclusion that this government has followed up. This is widely accepted in Stortinget, with the exception of one lot. However, that party does not make any other proposal. Nor has the Kvidal Committee found out. It is then surprising that the Department is later unable to submit a bill, which the Investigation Committee itself did not see possible. I thank you for your trust, but there must be limits! So just finally to the proposal that is being promoted to ask the Government to come forward as soon as possible. «a new investigation on the basis of which gender-neutral contributions are made and which obliges life insurance companies to provide pension schemes to ensure that they do so». I have noted the clarifications made by the proposers of the proposal. The Ministry will follow it up in such a way as to deal with the matter as quickly as possible. The Banking Law Commission is investigating issues that specifically relate to this. I want to make sure that this is also part of the mandate. It will ensure a rapid and professionally sound follow-up of this wish. A few-three speakers have also addressed issues that are not covered by this recommendation, namely the issue of municipal occupational pension schemes. One insurance company is exempt from the law in order to offer neutral premiums, in the case of KLP. Another insurance company has applied for an equivalent exemption. Such a derogation is granted to the applicant company. It was given at the end of the last month. I have also announced that changes to the law on this issue will come on a proposal from the Banking Law Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e688	I only have one comment to make on what the council said was Storting's mission to the department at the previous treatment, two years ago. What was stated in the Government's proposal was as follows: ‘In addition, the Ministry will take the initiative to investigate the issue of gender-neutral contributions on a broad basis.’ There is no possibility for the Storting to decide on what was a majority in the Storting at that time. As I have said, the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – all of them – asked that there now be gender-neutral premiums, and four of those parties went against the opportunity to charge women a higher premium than men.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e698	It is often the case with investigation committees that they are not pure ordering bodies. They shall investigate on a professionally sound basis. This sample was broadly composed both politically and professionally — professionally in the dual sense of the word: employers’ and employees’ interests were represented, but also in the insurance sector the selection was strong. I have noticed that Stortinget is satisfied with the investigation that has been carried out, and describes it as a proper step also in a gender equality perspective. Failure to follow up the sample’s proposal and to wait for new investigations would indeed lead to a concerted increase in describing it as a proper step in gender equality, actually being postponed for several years. That will be the consequence of the proposal of the Centre Party. Equality has something to do with reality, not just research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e706	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 62 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e724	Ot. pp. No 104 for 2001-2002 proposes to amend the Financial Activities and Financial Institutions Act, which allows the securitisation and issue of debt securities with special collateral. The legislative proposal provides new opportunities to finance loans by raising capital through the issue of securities market bonds. Securitisation means the transfer of a defined lending portfolio to an independent and separate special purpose vehicle that finances the purchase of the portfolio by issuing bonds. This involves a real transfer of risk to the lending from the transferring financial institution to the SPE and its debenture holders. At the same time, an operating agreement is established for the loan portfolio, usually with the bank that originally had the loan stock. However, the operating agreement shall not result in the transfer of the financial institution taking responsibility for the loans. Securitisation is a common phenomenon in many Western countries and is established as an instrument in, among others. Sweden, Finland, England, USA and Canada. The issue of debt securities with special collateral, also referred to as the mortgage banking model, implies that a credit institution, i.e.: an undertaking which mainly finances lending activities through the issue of debt securities may issue debt securities secured by specially marked lending portfolios. To that end, a number of requirements are imposed on the pledged item and on the credit institution itself. This bill is largely justified by the need for a competitive framework for the financial industry, which is currently competing with non-resident financial institutions on its domestic market. It has become increasingly common for Norwegian loan customers to raise loans in foreign credit institutions, especially after some Norwegian banks have been merged with foreign banks. The majority of the Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the proposal improves the possibility of financing loans through the issue of debt securities. The purpose of both arrangements is that the bonds issued are perceived as being particularly secure and thus obtain better credit rating, better liquidity and thus lower interest rates. The majority also emphasises that loan customers can have lower borrowing costs associated with mortgage loans due to lower borrowing costs of lenders. The introduction of special-security bonds could lead to the development of a market with cheaper fixed-rate mortgages through the purchase of housing and thus to the creation of more common and more efficient fixed-rate loans than at present. With regard to the part of the law relating to the issue of debt securities with special collateral, the Financial Committee has been consulted on a number of issues from the financial industry relating to minor adjustments to the law. Among other things, the industry considered that ship mortgages should be removed from the law because this could raise doubts as to whether or not the credit company should be involved, or could be involved, in other than low-risk financing. In that case, this doubt could affect the credit rating of this type of debt securities and hence the interest conditions. The Committee agrees with this assessment and has proposed to withdraw the mortgage from the bill. Furthermore, a regulatory body was requested to be consulted to regulate that funds from any early discharge of loan obligations, i.e. when customers repay the loan earlier than planned, they shall be able to be included in the collateral of the bond holders. The Committee shares the view that early repayment funds must be placed in non-borrowing provided that the collateral is of at least the same quality as the other portfolio pledge and proposes amendments to the suspension to this effect. A third adaptation proposed by a majority of the Committee applies to Paragraphs 2 to 33, which deal with bankruptcy or public administration. The paragraph contains a regulatory helmet in relation to limiting the ability of the bankruptcy or administrative board to dispose of loans and other assets included in the portfolio pledge. In the form of a comment, the Committee stresses that, in the design of such regulations, attention shall be paid to the fact that the bankruptcy or the administrative board is not to be able to force the forced processing or termination of the stay, including the forced sale of the portfolio pledge, in breach of the interests of the bond holders. In relation to the part of the bill on securitisation, a majority in the Committee asked the Government to assess whether protection in Norway should become a general part of Norwegian loan agreements. The background is that a majority of the Committee is concerned that the borrowers are entitled to conflict resolution in Norwegian courts, whether in legal proceedings from or against any new foreign creditors. There is obviously securitisation that has aroused the greatest debate in this bill. A minority of the Banking Law Commission considers that securitisation should not be opened, primarily in the interests of consumers, and that any special purpose vehicle should be subject to supervision and capital requirements. In the case of consumer interests, it is important to stress that the rights of the borrower are legally established as governed by the loan agreement and the Financial Contracts Act. In the case of banking services other than under contract and law, there is little evidence that securitisation itself will result in changes in customer treatment. Firstly, the most common use of securitisation means that the original bank continues to operate the loan portfolio in the same way as the rest of the bank’s loan portfolio. In practice, loans are legally separated and placed in the bond market, while customer treatment continues as before. Secondly, current credit practices in the financial institution are, for example: in the event of default, based on what is profitable and good banking. There is little reason to believe that the person responsible for operating a securitised lending portfolio will do so significantly differently. In addition, the borrower has been granted a right to refuse the consent to securitisation. In relation to the transfer of loans, there is already full occasion for this in the Financial Contracts Act for ordinary mortgage loans, so that the right of consent in relation to securitisation here implies specific consumer protection. With regard to the minority view that securitisation reduces financial stability, it is important to stress that neither the Credit Authority nor the Bank of Norway have specific objections to this. The reason is that the loans withdrawn from the balance sheets of the banks are widely financed in the securities market and in the bond holders. No risk is transferred to the borrower, as some in the debate have claimed. Nor is it the case that banks which, if necessary, separate their safest loans can replace them with high-risk loans. High risk loans have a higher weighting in terms of capital adequacy, so that the soundness of the bank is not particularly affected by securitisation. On the contrary, several hearing bodies stress that the securitisation and issue of debt securities with special collateral may be a valuable contribution to the Norwegian bond market and thus contribute to better financial liquidity and thus also better stability. I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee subscribes to this proposal, which provides Norwegian financial institutions with some competitive framework conditions in relation to their closest competitors, and recommends this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e762	The Progress Party is largely in line with the Government’s proposal for new chapters of the Finance Act. The bill opens up the possibility for borrowers who have taken up loans in Norway to have a foreign creditor, and this supports the Progress Party. However, we are concerned that the formal position of the borrowers should not be changed because of this, and we have therefore agreed in a majority opinion that non-resident enterprises to operate as special purpose vehicles in Norway must undertake to bring any action before Norwegian courts. In the vote, we have also put forward a proposal for a different wording in the Paragraph 2–33, third paragraph, second sentence. In that provision, the Government has proposed a basis for laying down rules on what should happen if a special purpose vehicle goes bankrupt or is put under administration. In order to make these regulations, it is appropriate to have the most flexibility to create a complete set of rules that safeguard the interests of both bond holders and other creditors. We do not take a position on the balance between these interests themselves, but we propose a somewhat wider basis than the government has proposed. Finally, in the suspension, we have proposed that the special-security debt securities rules be able to enter into force before the rules on securitisation. We have proposed this because, in the judgment, it is this type of bond that will first be used in the market. The financial industry has pointed out that the rules on securitisation are not well designed, and we believe that the most urgent thing is the work on getting the bond rules in place. That is why I am addressing the minority proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e775	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e778	SV, as shown in the setting, is opposed to large parts of it. We do that for several reasons, and let me explain these. In short, this means that we are going counter-clockwise because of financial stability, the economy of society and households, economic risk and not least the borrower's rights. The arguments for the system that is being set up here are, in our opinion, far too weak for us to go in for it. It's an argument that not only SV has, the Banking Law Commission's minority also emphasizes this. It is even in the setting where it is said: ‘There are certain concerns, both of a principle and a practical nature, about securitisation, but for competition reasons the Ministry nevertheless promotes proposals for securitisation after an overall assessment.’;» Thus, some vague competition conditions for the Norwegian financial industry are used to address a system that is thought to have both fundamental and practical objections. It is, in my opinion, too weak a argument that this should have been done. Of course, the reason you want this is because you want less risk. The argument that this would lead to a lower premium or a lower price for the consumer is a truth with great modifications, because of course it also involves increased risk. It is also clear from the positioning and from the legislative proposal that, of course, one wants to shift risks, in order to spread risks – not for the benefit of the consumer. It is also clear from, for example: the valuations to the minority of the Banking Law Commission, which are also reflected in the suspension, where they are referred to as: «The basis for capital adequacy requirements and security fund charges is to provide security for depositors to the public and to provide financial stability in society. In the case of securitisation, a technique is used to circumvent those requirements and thus save costs for financial institutions.’;» This is the key to the whole issue: this is mainly the financial industry itself that has been eager to obtain, in order to – as is clearly stated here – ‘save the costs of financial institutions’ and transfer the risk to the borrowers. This is a system of major weaknesses, and it also makes the system less widespread in Europe. Many countries have this kind of legal access, while finding that there are very few, or at least a limited number of countries, which actually use it. What's also important to note is that there's a great deal of disagreement about this. Many, including in the department's own bodies, are critical. This applies not least to the relationship with consumer protection. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is responsible for: critical to this and writes in a hearing opinion: «When the loan is securitised, the financial institution will no longer have the credit risk and will therefore not necessarily have the same interest in finding constructive solutions with the borrower.» – if you have debt problems. The same view applies to the Consumer Ombudsman, which is also reflected in the suspension, which states: ‘If the loan client receives payment problems and the loan defaults, the transfer of the loan to the SPE could have an impact on the customer. An AIFM that does not bear the credit risk would not have the same interest in finding constructive solutions for the borrower that a lender with credit risk would have. At the same time, the solution to such a situation will often be found in a comprehensive system, solutions involving the customer's pay accounts, savings agreements, etc. Where the exposures of the client to the bank have different ‘owners’, such solutions will not fall equally naturally.’; This means that both from the Consumer Team, from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and from the minority in the Banking Law Commission are warned against this simply because the risk has been transferred to the borrower, and perhaps in the next round to society, as we have seen in previous banking scandals, namely that society must actually clean up. For what is at stake in this case is the desire to reduce the risk to financial institutions. Therefore, even those who have been most dissident about establishing this system, and even though the ministry has both practical and principleal objections to it, one chooses here to follow the financial industry to a great disfavor for consumers. What is also worrying about this is the need to have a security mechanism here, by giving consumers the right to actively refuse to consent to the securitisation of loans. This then stands in clear opposition to giving an active consent to something. So that essentially means that a great deal of insight is now required to be able to actually say that your loans are not to be securitised, but the opposite of course would be natural, that you actively consent to this happening. In this way, you will also be aware of the risks involved. It will in practice mean that a large number of loans can now be securitised without the borrower being aware of the risk. That means the sum sum that this is a law that we will strongly warn against. It is a law that will not benefit the Norwegian community and the borrowers. I also believe that the financial industry itself will see a risk in this, and that, hopefully, the system will not be used much, which has also been clearly obtained from hearing opinions on the matter. After all, the financial industry itself would have wanted a much more far-reaching law. They've got this, and that's why they think it's too bad, and they don't want to use it. That's also a point of view. Our starting point is that this law was unnecessary. In the view of the Swedish authorities, the competitive considerations emphasised by the majority are not strong enough to create a law that is so much in favour of consumers and social interests. As stated in the setting, SV is in favour of large parts of this, but we have a proposal together with the Workers' Party that I am referring to herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e820	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e823	The central party believes that this is a very bad argument for introducing the legal provision to which it is now being invited. There is consideration of risk relief for parts of the financial industry that are the arguments, while important consumer concerns are at stake and include: is weighted by the LO and the Consumer Council. The centre party is opposed to this principle, and that is not the first matter we have up today where there are the same considerations that stand against each other. In this case, the Senterpartiet agrees with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e830	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Odelstingen has now come to the examination of case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page 63]] The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e852	This case concerns the law on compulsory pay in a work dispute between the Municipal Staff Association, KFO, and the National Association of Service Companies, SBL, in the context of the 2002 tariff review. The dispute arose in the context of the 2002 pay settlement between private ambulance companies that are members of the SBL and ambulance drivers who are members of the CFO. Negotiations on a new tariff agreement did not take place. The CFO broke the negotiations and announced the termination on 6 September 2002. The Riksmeklingsmann closed the ban on work struggle on 8 September and called the parties for mediation. The mediation ended the night until Thursday 26 September 2002 without results. On 26 September, the KFO took out 65 of its members in Nord-Trøndelag and Nordland on strike, and the strike was escalated from 2 October, when the KFO took out 58 new members on strike. Further escalation came on October 8, 2002. From that date, a total of 262 workers were covered by the strike in nine counties. October 14th, at 4 p.m. 21.30 the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs called the parties to a meeting, and the Council of State informed that, on the basis of the consequences of the strike, the Government had decided to make proposals to use compulsory pay terms to stop the conflict. At the invitation of the Council of State, the CFO said that their members would go back to work with the same thing. The Committee is aware that there is a lack of consistency between KFO and SBL as to the extent to which employers benefit from the possibility of applying for an emergency response waiver. However, the Committee believes that the Health Authority’s assessments of the situation in the North and South Trøndelag, dated 14 October 2002, as they appear in the proposal, indicate that there could be a risk to life and health. A co-conspirator's committee thus joins the government bill. The Progress Party and SV have a more extensive note. I'm assuming they're going to do the right thing for it. But let me add the following: Norway has ratified several ILO conventions that protect strike rights. I share the Ministry's assessment of the interpretation of the ILO's own bodies, which will ensure that interventions in the strike can only be permitted if the strike has put life, health or personal security at risk to all or a large part of the population. In 1995 several parties, including the Centre Party, went against giving the strike back to the police. We thought the striker didn't want to be real. The same question can actually be raised when adding liabilities in the health sector. There is a need to underline the responsibility of the parties themselves to participate in a negotiating climate that leads to good solutions. Finally, let me make it clear that in this specific matter, a co-ordinator's committee is behind the use of the compulsory pay bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e875	In this case, there is unanimity, because what we in the municipal committee are invited to decide is whether there is sufficient evidence that, as a result of the conflict, there is a risk to life and health. We believe that the statements of the Health Authority have been so clear and unambiguous that we do not find it right to do anything other than go in for forced pay. But together with the Progress Party we have written a note that we think it is important to point out that we believe that forced payroll too often is used. We believe that the forced use of wages contributes too little to the responsibility of the social partners to resolve these kinds of issues without the Government intervening and using forced pay. In this case, it's special, because here's the word against the word, where it's claimed that you haven't taken advantage of the possibility to apply for a derogation. It only highlights the particular problem that we want to raise, that we need to be careful about using compulsory pay terms, because it has unfortunate consequences for the parties' willingness to reach agreement and resolve the conflict properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e884	The rapporteur explained the matter in an excellent way, so I should not add anything to it, but just comment on a few things about exactly this with the dispensation solutions and just clarify and repeat something that you have been up to before. This conflict was constantly closely followed by the State Health Authority, and the reports from there showed for a long time that the strike did not lead to critical situations, although of course it led to disadvantages both for patients and hospitals. But on Sunday 13 October, after the strike had been going on for two and a half weeks, the Health Inspectorate reported that the danger of life and health could arise, because the granted exemptions had been withdrawn with effect from the next morning. However, the parties contacted and agreed to extend the exemptions one more day. There was no solution to the problems during the next 24 hours, and the health surveillance reports beyond Monday 14 October concluded that situations could arise that could lead to a risk to life and health. The conclusion was drawn on the basis of reports from County Doctors in Southern and Northern Trøndelag. In that situation – and I understand that it is agreed – the government has no other option but to propose to stop the strike and settle the dispute by forced payroll. The parties were briefed on this decision, to which the rapporteur had come, in a meeting with the Minister of State in the evening of 14 October. So the problems that arose had a background of disagreement on how to deal with exemptions. As I understand it, there has gradually been a different perception between the parties about who was responsible for the situation. In this respect, I would like to stress that, at its meeting on 14 October, the Minister of Local Government made it clear to the parties that, in such a sensitive area, appropriate procedures for dealing with strikes, including dispensation procedures, should be established before conflict occurs. That is what has failed in this matter, and that is what makes it necessary to use compulsory pay terms in a case where this should actually be unnecessary. It is important that the parties are clear that such issues should be resolved before conflict arises, and that is not something that can be resolved in a straightforward way once the conflict has arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e895	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 67]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e911	I'm just going to give a brief explanation of why the Progress Party does not join the majority in this case. I will first refer to the general view of the Advance Party on issues relating to Finnmark and where Sami questions are involved. We have consistently argued that equality for all in Finland with regard to the right to land and water is the best way to create a least conflictable situation in the ethnic region of Finnmark County. I would also like to add that we believe that the Sameting should be closed, and so we cannot be in order to further expand the Sami in Finnmark in the way it is proposed in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e918	Ivar Østberg is the case spokesman for this case, and he has no seat in Odelstinget. That's why I want on his behalf to do a little bit of good for the simple things in this case. It's like there's three official languages in Norway. It's book goals, nynosic and samian. Therefore, this matter is simple both for the Christian People's Party and for the Government. In Sámi, Sámi languages are widely used, and the county has now also been given an official Sámi name. That's what's in this case. It is also agreed that five municipalities can use Sami and Norwegian municipality names in parallel, but this applies to the county. Finnmárku is the Sami name for Finnmark, and now it should also be on a sign. It seems that the Government is correct, and that is a symbol that the Sami language is one of the official Norwegian languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e925	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6 [[Footage, see page 68]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e940	A key factor in the success of Norwegian society in meeting the future challenges for both business and management will be the ability to develop and leverage new knowledge. Not least in today's situation, this needs to have our attention in relation to labour market problems and the need for development and innovation. The issue we are dealing with today, about the right to inventions made by employees, is a follow-up to a previous statement from the Stortinget on the need to invest more in the commercialisation of research results at universities and colleges. The aim of the bill is to increase the commercial exploitation of inventions in research at universities and colleges, but without jeopardising the traditional tasks of institutions, such as free research and higher education. As the rapporteur, I am pleased that there is unanimous support for the proposal, with some shades in the comments of the Progress Party, albeit not quite so clear. Amendments to the Law on Universities and Universities in Spring imposed greater responsibility on institutions for the application of scientific methods and results and cooperation with social and labour life. Institutions must play a more active role in increasing the use of research results to the benefit of society. Of course, not only do patent rights apply here, but other aspects, such as: capital input in the next round. Studies show that research results produced at universities and colleges have untapped opportunities for business use and value creation. Work to ensure a better social benefit from inventions requires, inter alia: closer cooperation between research environments and business, organisational organisation of institutions and economic incentives for researchers and institutions. However, increased commitment to the commercial exploitation of inventions must not weaken basic research at universities and colleges. The basic appropriations for research must not be reduced on the basis of expectations of increased self-sufficiency from the acquisition of research results. At the same time, I would like to stress the important principle that the researcher and the professional community themselves should decide what research is to be carried out on the methods to be used and how the results are to be presented. Furthermore, I would like to stress the principle that the researcher has the right to publish research results – the free publishing right. The Committee agrees with the proposal that universities and colleges may take over the right to the commercial exploitation of patentable inventions by staff of the institution. It is done by repealing the «teacher exemption» in the Employee Invention Act. So the law applies to universities and colleges in the same way as to other public and private activities, as in most other countries. However, the possibility of open dissemination of knowledge by the researcher must be ensured, as proposed, by legislating the right to freely publish its research results within one year of the institution being notified of the invention, even when this may prevent the institution from using an invention commercially. The proposals could ensure greater involvement of institutions in exploiting research results commercially, but also greater responsibility for organising an apparatus to safeguard the rights of researchers and institutions and to ensure that inventions are patented and disseminated to the business community. The right of publication allows researchers to choose whether or not to patent and exploit an invention for business purposes and, where appropriate, a better auxiliary device in relation to support and guidance if patenting is appropriate. Researchers and institutions should have general common interests and should be able to cooperate in order to obtain both publication and patenting, even though the institution is now given the first right to exploit the invention commercially. As regards distribution, the Committee agrees that any values from inventions should be distributed between researchers and institutions. The Bernt Committee's proposal for an institutional/research environment distribution and researchers with 2/3 and 1/3 respectively have received broad support in the consultation round. The Ministry considers that such a distribution key is a good starting point but should not be legalised as a special scheme for this sector in relation to other workers. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, subscribes to this and considers that a guideline on a 2/3 distribution to the institution/research environment and 1/3 to the researcher is a reasonable starting point where no other agreement has been reached. The Ministry must take this into account in the further follow-up. But I would like to stress that here there are also opportunities to make other agreements, which one may not get the impression in the comment from the Progress Party. Institutions should decide for themselves how to organise the apparatus to ensure the rights of inventions and dissemination to business. In any case, it is important that institutions build up internal competences in order to safeguard the interests of institutions and researchers. This will concern the costs of setting up an innovation apparatus, and we ask the Ministry, in cooperation with the institutions, to identify the need and follow up on this in future budget proposals for the Storting. At the same time, we also ask the Ministry to evaluate this scheme after three years and give an appropriate feedback to the Stortinget. It is my hope – and I think the whole committee hopes it will – that the changes we are making today will help to increase the potential for greater exploitation of research results at universities and colleges, for the benefit of society. So finally, an area which is not mentioned in the proposal but which the Committee has raised: the changes concern only inventions that are patentable, but also research results that are not to be patented, can have a commercial potential. Examples of results that fall outside the law may be procedures necessary to produce a product and computer programs. Here, the copyright law will cover something and regulate parts of such innovations, but we have also chosen to highlight this relationship in the context of patents for the commercial exploitation of research results. The Committee points out that universities and colleges have a special responsibility to disseminate understanding and to ensure the application of scientific results. We would therefore like to stress that this responsibility also includes results which are not to be patented but which can nevertheless be commercialised. It is important that institutions, when choosing the organisational form of innovation work, also facilitate the proper maintenance of research results that do not require patenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e983	Universities and colleges are our biggest knowledge producers. Good and continuous basic research as well as intriguing applied research creates new knowledge, new ideas and new inventions. It provides the basis for research-based education and dissemination to our students, enabling them to compete with the best national and international. However, at the same time as the production of the good research results, there are several evaluations and investigations – among others. by the Mjøs Committee and the Bernt Committee, from an insight into industry — pointed out that the use of scientific research results at our universities and universities, especially with regard to inventions and the subsequent innovation, commercialisation and innovation in industry, is far lower than innovation and innovation in other countries, and that the results are much lower than the results we could expect in relation to resource use in this sector. The same issue was also addressed in the evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council, where one of the conclusions of the evaluation report was that we achieve too little innovation and innovation as a result of the research efforts that the Norwegian Research Council contributes to, among others. through sub-financing of research at our universities and colleges. I perceive that there is a broad consensus to bet more strongly on the commercialisation of research results. It will increase the necessary pace of innovation in our society and business, in particular with regard to entrepreneurship and innovation based on knowledge and emerging inventions, among others. by our good staff and researchers in the university and higher education sectors. Knowledge-driven business development and knowledge-based business will be our main competitive advantage in the future. In the examination of the University and Higher Education Act of the United Kingdom, the majority of the institutions had the opportunity to contribute in a flexible and effective way to the budding of peripheral zone institutions, to the establishment of companies and to the commercialisation of inventions and the sale of services, including knowledge and competence in a regional national and international market. The present position is, in my opinion, a positive continuation of this intention, in which earlier ambiguities regarding the rights of inventions made by state workers in the university and higher education sectors are clarified, and where both the interests of the institution and the motivation and interests of individual researchers and inventors are taken into account in a unified and good manner. This is primarily a patentable invention, but the Committee has emphasised that research results that cannot be patented immediately can also have a significant commercial potential. In this context, I would like to highlight the responsibilities of the institutional management and the research community, possibly research teams, to help ensure that the same guidelines and intentions for patentable inventions are also respected in terms of commercialisation, publication and distribution of income for other interesting research results. Upon the abolition of the so-called teachers’ exemption from the law on the right to inventions made by workers, researchers and scientific staff at universities and colleges are treated in the same way as other employees, while ensuring free publication for one year. I believe this, together with the changes previously made in the Law on Universities and Higher Education, can be an important contribution to ensuring a greater degree of commercialisation of research results, while contributing positively to an increase in the pace of innovation in our business. To achieve this objective, close cooperation between the sector, capital and market interests in business is required. Market knowledge and seed capital that will and can contribute to the development of a patent for a successful commercial product may not be the direct responsibility of the Minister of Education and Research. However, I would encourage the Council of State to contribute to both building bridges and good networks between the departments concerned, not least between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Industry, but also between our universities and colleges and our business. At that time, the current legislative change could be an even more successful initiative and legislative change, which could make important contributions to the development of our entire society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1002	The Party of Progress is satisfied with the changes that are now being adopted relating to the law on inventions made by workers. But it would have been desirable, in our view, to get even closer to the model that Stanford University has developed and that has produced very good results for that institution. The model guarantees by agreement the institution patent rights to the inventions of the employee. Inventors shall be free to publish the research results if they do not break concluded agreements. Stanford University has developed a standard agreement whereby individual researchers agree to notify the institution of all potential patentable inventions. If more researchers are behind an invention, everyone must agree that publication is the best way to ensure the transfer of knowledge and technology. The best thing about the model is that it is largely based on pre-research agreements, so that the framework for research is laid down. With regard to the question of how to get more of the research that is taking place and disseminate it to industry, the Progress Party considers that it is necessary to have professional bodies to do so. It is not enough in today's society to sit on each other in different educational institutions. A number of our higher education institutions do not have the economy to gain access to the skills and expertise needed to bring about a smooth and satisfactory system for the transfer of patents to products. The Progress Party is pleased that there is a great deal of freedom in the allocation of any resources relating to patents that are traded and that bring revenue. In our opinion, it is of great importance that this be distributed as far as possible through agreements between the institutions, researchers and any third parties. The freedom of institutions to do so may make it easier for institutions to attract recognised researchers with a high level of international competence. In any case, it is important that the institutions which are able to refer to good research results and which are able to translate them into revenue for the institutions are not penalised by reducing government appropriations. If the institutions manage to obtain additional income through research carried out, this will be an additional motivation to increase quality. Motivation needs both individual researchers and educational institutions. The Progress Party has the hope that a change to the law can help to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1011	Facilitating and stimulating innovation is one of the most central challenges we have. Regardless of what is happening in Norwegian industry at present, with job closures, we are facing extensive structural changes in Norwegian business. If we plough more money into the economy, the conversion will certainly go faster than it is today. Our task here in Stortinget is to create a good framework for innovation and innovation. A long-term perspective on this — which has objectives other than short-term populist play — means that the most important thing we can do is to focus on education and research. A high level of education in combination with pecuniary competence is the best business policy. Together with good research environments and consciously prioritizing research, we have provided a good basis for innovation and innovation. For this reason, it was important for industry policy that the Stortinget joined a proposal from the SV to create a stepping-up plan for research efforts, that we should rise to the OECD average level over a five-year period. That we have not followed up well enough, we can only regret it. The amendment of the law that we are adopting today is part of strengthening the work of innovation on the basis of inventions made by teachers and scientific staff. We repeal the derogation in the law, but still teachers and scientific staff have special arrangements in relation to what applies in general to employees. It is important that you are aware of. Still, as I said, teachers should be exempted from the main model. We have done this because we balance the interests between patenting and publishing. One year after the invention has been made by the institution, they can take out patents for commercialisation. I think that the Danish model, where the right to invention belongs to the institution and they have a certain period of time to decide and assess whether they want to commercialise it, would have been a better model. But I accept and realize that this is a first step to facilitate that inventions can be commercialized in a better way than what we've gotten so far. If we are to succeed, and if the institutions are to succeed, within the model we are adopting today, it is absolutely essential that the institutions are able to stimulate employees towards patenting, in order to commercialise research results. Therefore, it is crucial in the future that good structures and models are built in the institutions that can take care of this interest. Then the most important thing, I think, is that systems are being built that stimulate and encourage researchers in the different environments to commercialize, to keep that in mind, too, in the work they're doing. I am pleased that the Committee stresses that in the models and structures to be built in the institutions, one must also facilitate and be concerned with what is not to be patented but which can be commercialised. A lot of what can be commercialised is not to be patented. One must also be concerned with this piece when building up the different models and structures to take care of these interests. I'm curious if we can get more commercial out of the research that's going on at our institutions, now that we're changing the legal text. We're going to evaluate this after a while, and if it turns out that this is not enough, I now imagine that the Danish model would probably stimulate the institutions to be on the hook in relation to what might exist, and what had to be discovered, the inventions that are being made. I am also pleased that we are giving strong and clear leadership on the distribution of what is being commercialised in terms of revenue. We've added up to one-third. I believe that this is a good guide and takes care of the interests of both the institutions and the individual researcher.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1032	For a long time, there has been a desire in Norway for research results to be brought to the immediate benefit of society more quickly. In January 2000 a selection was therefore set up under the direction of Jusprofessor Jan Fridthjof Bernt at the University of Bergen. The committee presented its position in March 2001, and it was on the basis of this study on the increased commercialisation of research results that the Government followed up with a legislative amendment that the Committee has now tabled. Today, when we adopt the law, this means that researchers will have to share their patents with the research institution in the future. Individual researchers no longer have the right to exploit their own research results economically, and the aim is to increase the commercialisation of research. For universities and colleges, this means more resources. This represents an intermediate solution to the question of who is entitled to commercial exploitation of the inventions of researchers, and now the Committee has supported this proposal. At the same time, it is important to clarify that with this amendment, we will maintain the researcher's right to publish its results, regardless of the institution's work on commercial exploitation of an invention. If the researcher chooses to avail himself of his right to publish his findings or inventions publicly, the institution will not be able to apply for a patent. The proposal guarantees the researcher's academic freedom. At the same time, we hope that the amendment will provide sufficient motivation to start new business and increase the ‘intelligent’ value creation in society. Research needs to be commercialised in order to create new business developments. Good patenting legislation is a key to creating an increased interest from the university and higher education communities in the field of industrial development. What is important now is that the institutions are good at guiding their researchers to patenting. Research efforts are central to industrial development and innovation policy. Here, the Government has also provided for tax deductions to increase research efforts. We hope that this will facilitate increased cooperation between industry and universities/high schools. We believe that the proposal takes into account the rights and obligations of both researchers and institutions. The amendment of the law also facilitates the organisation of the work on the commercial exploitation of inventions, as researchers may be assisted by the institution in the commercialisation process. At the same time, resources are returned to the institutions through commercialisation, and this in turn will motivate universities for increased research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1047	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 68]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1063	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups: right 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1072	It's a brand day today. What we're doing today is almost historical. It's historic for the students who get legal protection that they haven't had in the past. We're giving them a break, to be conscious of being able to work with their environment, which they haven't had in the past. It's also a brand day for SV, because this is an old SV case. This is a matter that we have been dealing with for quite many years. We have made a lot of proposals. We now get them adopted in the Storting, but it's taken a very long time. I am very pleased that we have now come so far that we adopt legal provisions for the students' working environment. I would like to congratulate the Committee on the work done on this draft law. I also want to give praise to the different fractions. It's done a good piece of craft, and it's shown great willingness to find compromises. The Committee tightened up the proposal of the Ministry on three points which I would like to emphasise in the first place. Firstly, we clearly give students the right to a good physical and psychosocial working environment. The majority of the Committee would like the school environment to be in line with the professional standards recommended by the professional authorities. So we give an individual right to a good school environment, a good learning environment. We also decide that there should be a school environment committee where users, i.e. pupils and parents constitute the majority. There is a majority in the committee for this. It's an important matter for the users, for the students and their parents. In this area, the majority goes beyond what was in the Ministry's proposal. In addition — perhaps the most important thing next to giving students an individual right — we say that there should be a supervisory body, but in a different form from that provided by the department. It suggested that the primary supervision should be with the municipality, which is the school owner, and then one could involve some body next to it. We say that there should be an independent supervisory body to supervise the environment in schools. This is the majority for, and we ask the Government to come back with proposals for independent public oversight. We have established a supervisory body for the working environment. We have the Labour Inspectorate, where there is a lot of competence in this area. And in the SV's opinion, it would be natural to use that competence also as a supervisory body against this law that we now include in the Training Act. We're now giving the students a good working tool. It is also important in this context to know that this is an important part of the democratic mission of students. Through these provisions of the law, students are trained to deal with these kinds of questions, how a job in a democratically elected body works. In this sense, it is also important, in addition to the purely environmental, that this helps to defend and ensure a good working environment. We know a good deal about how the physical working environment is around in our schools. We know that there have been studies where one has estimated that it may need to be invested up to NOK 40 billion in our school buildings in order to make them good enough in relation to the environmental requirements that we are now falling down and that are in line with what workers otherwise have. There we have a big challenge in facilitating that we can upgrade our school buildings, make them good, so that they meet the requirements that we are now falling down, and the individual rights that we are now giving to students into a good learning environment. As I said, this is a brand day. This is something the students have also asked for for for a long time. It is a pleasure for me to say that we are now able to legislate for this. We now provide pupils and parents, as users, with an important tool to improve their working environment significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1098	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1103	The rapporteur did not refer to those parts of the position where SV is minority in relation to the majority position of the committee. I want to get back to that a little bit. Otherwise, of course, there may be differing views on the extent to which the present attitude is a tightening of the proposal from the Ministry. I'd rather express myself so that it's a fairly clear clarification of some of the points that the ministry has promoted. But at one point, SV is in a clear minority. This is the place where these provisions are to be placed. The majority of the Committee have opted for their inclusion in the Training Act, while SV has stressed strongly that they should be included in the Working Environment Act. The Labour Environment Act is a law that respects the rights of the social partners, where the social partners – both employers and employees – are subject to rights and obligations. When SV makes such a strong point that these provisions should be incorporated into the Ordinary Working Environment Act, does SV also believe that school students should be given the same obligations as workers under the Ordinary Working Environment Act? In this case, it must be reasonably new in relation to what I have seen as the SV's ordinary school policy according to the obligations of the students. How will SV follow this up in relation to being able to get rid of those students who do not fulfil their responsibilities under the Working Environment Act? The Working Environment Act even provides for penalties for those who do not comply with their obligations under the legislation. How does this relate to SV's normal school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1114	The representative Rolf Reikvam is given the word to answer the question. At the same time, the President will ask him if he should make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1117	I thank you for the reminder. I actually remembered it on the way down from the pulpit, so I'm doing it this way. I bring up the SV's own proposals and proposals where SV is a co-sponsor. So to the question from Søren Fredrik Voie. It is clear that we believe that these provisions should primarily have been laid down in the Working Environment Act. There's especially one reason for that. The Working Environment Act is comprehensive. There is a supervisory body, there is a practice, and there is an understanding of what a good physical and psychosocial work environment is, so in that area we have no problem saying that students should have exactly the same rights as workers. In the case of rights to a good working environment, both physically and psychosocially, it must be at the level and in line with that of workers. In the name of propriety, it should be lacking! And since we have established this law, it will be natural for us that the students come under the same law. But it is also quite obvious that parts of the work environment law cannot, of course, include students. What goes on in employment, what goes on, for example, in working time and a whole lot of such provisions from paragraph one or the other and beyond of the Working Environment Act, cannot include pupils. It is clear that those parts of the law should not include and should not include students. I can't see that there is any problem with adding students to the Working Environment Act and then exempting those parts of the law that it is completely inappropriate for students to be subject to, that which explicitly relates to working-time relationships, employment issues, employer/employee relationships, etc. I can't understand that it was going to be difficult for anyone, and it would ideally be the very best, but we accept the second best, namely that this is part of the training law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1124	The representative Rolf Rikvam has drawn up the proposals he referred to. No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1129	The legislative proposal today does not come one day too early, rather on the contrary. Because there is no doubt that it is in the first years of life of our children that the basis for good health is laid. There is also no doubt that a good school environment is essential for students’ learning and development opportunities. It is therefore essential to ensure a good environment at school. In 1998, the first survey of the school environment came to the students, following an initiative by the Children’s Ombudsman. A number of municipalities gave feedback that they felt the regulation for environmental health protection was too diffuse. They needed more information, and they needed skills. In addition, the Children’s Ombudsman considered that children and young people had to have individual rights to a good environment so that they could deal with a complaint under the rules of the Administrative Act. Most of these points are in line with the views of the Workers' Party on the school environment of students. Prerequisites of the majority of the Innst Municipal Committee O. No 41 for 2001–2002 is very comprehensive on what is one of the most important aspects of the impact of the school environment provisions: concrete provisions, participation arrangements and an independent supervisory system. This is also reflected in that Children’s Ombudsman’s report: clear and clear rules, clear and clear rights. Another important premise, which I am very pleased that there is agreement in the committee, is that the students have the right to an equal working environment as well as the employees. The school environment is a theme that engages many, including parents, students, teachers and politicians. I must say that I am impressed by this commitment, through the letters we have received, notes, hearings, telephones and newspaper posts. In several places, action groups have been set up to improve the environment in schools. The physical environment of students, for example, acts as an example. on the construction situation, but it is also about the individual rights of the students. In the view of the Workers' Party, there was a need to clarify the Government's proposals for general requirements, so that it is clear that students have the right to a good physical and psychosocial school environment. The focus on students’ rights means that the school also has an obligation to work for a better school environment. I am therefore very pleased that a unanimous committee has supported this change. The quality of school buildings around the country has long marked our media image. In order to avoid being closed or threatened with closure due to poor maintenance, I believe that the government’s financing scheme for upgrading school buildings, which was subsequently adopted by the Stortinget, is an appropriate and effective tool to stimulate the upgrading of existing school facilities. Then there will be a small paradox when the government, while the committee is dealing with this bill, chooses to cut NOK 1 billion in the budget that we are about to discuss. There was to be an escalating plan for eight years from 2001, at NOK 2 billion per year. years. In a situation of an increasingly strenuous municipal economy and many municipalities in need of upgrading school buildings, this will make a small constructive contribution to a better school environment for our students. With regard to the issue of where the legal text is to be placed, the Workers' Party is of the opinion that it is most appropriate to place the law in the Training Act. There are other relevant laws in the school sector. Other keywords are transparency and availability. But the important thing for us is to give students individual rights to the school environment, regardless of law. The right of students to a good school environment also applies to the psychosocial environment: a school environment free of bullying, violence and other offensive behaviour. The timing of the day determines employees' obligation to intervene and follow up. The attitude also determines the responsibility of the school owner and the school management to counteract and prevent bullying. By confirming the individual right, students also have the opportunity to complain. I would like to make it very clear that stopping bullying has two important aspects: prevention, but also post-protection. In order to work whole-heartedly with this, it is important that students are also included on the team, on the advice and on the design of actions. The government shall be commended for its manifesto with a view to the removal of bullying within two years. If you're going to be critical, maybe the students should have actually been involved in designing this. [[The President clubs.]] I know that time is up. I just want to say that the main intention of ending the bullying is positive, but that we also depend on this being followed up in a good and tight way by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1152	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1155	I have two questions for the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim. Firstly, I would like to say that I fully agree with the representative when she says that this matter did not come one day too early. I fully agree with that. Clemet State Council has acted quickly where the pastors have sold, or at least not acted. A claim that has come from the Workers' Party, which was at least suggested here today, is that the Ministry has proposed a initially sleeping law. In his post, the representative Bekkelem Orheim said: little concrete and general. I find it difficult to understand how the representative can claim it. In my view, the legislative proposal contains specific paragraphs on claims, on rights and also on penalties if things are not followed up. As an example, I refer to § 9a-7. The Labour Party is involved in one concrete amendment concerning the legal text, on which the government parties are not involved. This applies to § 9a-2, where the word «should» is replaced by «should». I would like to ask: is that what is the difference between a sleeping and – I kept saying – an awake bill? Let me also ask the representative how she will characterise this bill in relation to the proposal sent out by the government of Stoltenberg in April 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1169	I have to say first that I am very pleased that the government parties have joined a much more binding law than the department provided. I think we were present at the same hearing. There was no doubt that everyone in the committee who had been consulted felt that the proposal put forward by the Council of State was too non-binding. I will mention two concrete things: if we really believe that students in today's School-Norway do not have clear rights, it must have some consequences and lead to tightening up the law. What the department said in its proposal was that this law would not have any economic or administrative consequences. That was what the committee thought was wrong. We have pointed out that this could actually have some consequences for the municipalities. I am therefore very pleased that, among other things. The right has joined an obligatory note that will give the individual student an individual right, which in turn will mean a clear commitment from the school owner. The representative Olsen was inside what the Stoltenberg government had done. I have gone back and read the letter of the school council Trond Giske sent out in his time. There is no doubt that he made it very clear that the students' working environment needs to be strengthened to a much greater extent than what is being done under the current law. Then he pointed to the psychosocial, aesthetic, and pedagogical learning environment of the students. He said that very clearly that it would come into place. Now it's like there's another state council that's harvesting. I am very pleased that the Storting can today adopt something that becomes binding on all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1178	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1181	There are three milestones in the Government's proposal for a new chapter of the Education Act on the School Environment for Students: 1st@item: inlistbox The school environment is defined as both a physical and a psychosocial environment.2. Infringements of the law on the school environment may be punished.3. The participation of students is ensured through clear rights. There is a close link between learning environment and learning outcomes, especially in the psychosocial learning environment. When up to 70,000 students are either terrified of going to school because of bullying or disgust so much at school that they don't get any benefit from learning while they're there, it's a serious signal. It is therefore so important and right that the government has made a bill that sets clear limits on the behaviour that is accepted at school. The government also wants to have sanctions against school owners, school managers and employees who violate the provisions on the working environment of pupils. In practice, a teacher as a bully can be punished with prison. This may also mean that a municipality can be penalised for breaches of the provision that the physical learning environment should be satisfactory. It is also an important point to state that not only active infringements of the provisions but also inaction with those provisions may give rise to penalties. Closing your eyes to bullying or not dealing with too high indoor temperatures is just as bad as actively arranging the school in such a way that the learning environment gets poor. The participation of students in school environmental work is ensured by clear rights in law. It's important, not only from a democratic point of view, but also for those who experience the school environment on the body to be heard. They have the best assumptions to give a proper recipe for how it can get better. It is in the light of these clear priorities from the Government in the proposition that the opinions of the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, from the Workers' Party in Dagbladet on 29 October made me a little upset. At best, it must be called creative storywriting when she says: ‘That ministry had initially proposed was a sleeping law. We thought it would have to be a sanction option if the law were to become more binding." But the penalty option that I just mentioned has been in Bondevik's proposal all along, and the Workers' Party has not at any time, during the committee's discussion, expressed its desire to change it. What I suspect, on the other hand, is that the representative Bekkemel Orheim is talking about in Dagbladet, is the proposal that was finally put on the table last April, by the government she herself was part of. The current Minister of Education Trond Giske presented a proposal that was completely toothless. It did not contain a single word about psychosocial environments, not a single word about sanctioning options and finely little about students' participation in school environment work. As head of Young Right, during the time of the representative Giske, I have spoken to very many students and organisations, especially in high school. The common thing for all of them is that they actually slaughtered the proposal made by the former Minister of Education. In practice, there was only a regulation of existing regulations, without taking into account the main aspects of the school environment of students. The representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, says to Dagbladet on 29 October: ‘There has been an engagement for several decades for students to gain more rights both psychosocially and physically, so this is a historic decision’. I fully agree with the representative of Bekkemel Orheim that this is a historic decision, and I am extremely pleased that there are now binding provisions on the school environment of students. But with respect to reporting, it gets a little weird when a representative of the then government party, who was again in the current government, now goes out in the media and says that the fight for regulations on the physical and psychosocial school environment is a battle that has been fought for decades. Then I am left with some unanswered questions. Why in the world has not the Labour Party proposed this decades ago? They've been in government almost the entire period. If the involvement of the psychosocial work environment is so strong, why did the consultation draft from the Labour Party Government not contain a single word about this? On 18 May 2000, the Stortinget Government asked for a proposal on the legal framework for the working environment of students and students. Why did Minister of Education Trond Giske wait until April 2001 to submit such a proposal to the hearing? It is not one year too early to adopt legislation on the school environment of pupils. This is an incredibly good day for students and everyone else who spends most of their waking time every day in a Norwegian school. I bring this up with proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1221	The representative of the Commission, Mr Eriksen, has put forward the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1226	I'm a little bit unsure if I'm taking a line to the line. It almost seemed as if the previous posts were more a line to Karita Bekkemelm Orheim than a defense of what the Right has entered the position, in terms of the school environment. But I assume I have a line to the article from Ine Marie Eriksen, and that's the question of school construction. The foundation has been that the state and the Stortinget have committed themselves to giving municipalities greater opportunities to rust up, rebuild and create a better physical school environment for the students. In a decision supported by only a minority, we ask for a situation report on the situation of school construction in Norway. The government parties did not want to be part of it. Is that because you're afraid of the result? Is it because you're uninterested, or is it because it might show that the proposal to reduce the lending framework to municipalities was a bad proposal? Such a situation report will have nothing to do with the responsibility for school buildings located in municipalities and county municipalities, but I think it would be a natural basis for the Stortinget to have in relation to assessing whether the scheme is working properly with regard to loans to municipalities and county municipalities. So I'm just asking the question: what is the basis for not wanting to produce a situation report on the conditions of school buildings for children and young people in Norwegian schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1233	I think the representative, Bjørnstad, was a bit too busy in the rotunda to hear the first part of the post, which was therefore a defense for the proposals of the Government. As far as school construction is concerned, there is no lack of interest in school construction and its design and condition, but we are in the process of upgrading school buildings. The question of the loan framework is a budgetary issue which is not dealt with here, and which I therefore do not address here either. What I think is interesting to notice, is that if you now have a loan scheme that will last for more than eight years, it is still primarily the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that you prioritize money to clean up school buildings. That's why I think it's a little interesting that in the Municipality of Oslo, which now has a city council of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, one has actually gone in with one billion kroner every year since 1997 to refurbish the school buildings that the Workers' Party and SV were unable to prioritize in their time. The Oslo Municipality Schooletaten is now the largest builder in Eastern Europe, taking responsibility with the state for upgrading school buildings and being in good enough condition to satisfy a good working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1242	75 pst. by the post of Ine Marie Eriksen was a polemic against Trond Giske and a draft law that lay out a few years ago, a strange post. I'm not going to polemize against anything, but I'm just going to congratulate the Right, for example, on the fact that we're now establishing a supervisory body. The right has changed its position and supports the majority in voting for a proper supervisory body. I want to give praise to the Right for that, after all, instead of driving polemics towards something they originally wanted. I think that's very good, and we're now getting a substantial bit further than what we were initially. But that's not what I was going to bring up. Ine Marie Eriksen also spent a lot of time talking about bullying, a big and difficult problem in school. We know that the government has taken care of it in a good way, at least verbally. But then there is a proposal here, which the Right does not agree with, that says that the municipalities should be offered anti- mobbing arrangements over a period of time. We know that if we're going to do something about bullying in school, it's mainly the teachers who have the key. It's the ones that need to get knowledge, it's the ones that have to be better to discover bullying, and it's the ones that can push against this. So the majority says that we have to do something about this. We're going to do something about this. Schools shall be offered different programmes. Many good programs have been developed. So this proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party is on the table, which you have the opportunity to vote for, but then right doesn't support it, so that we don't get a majority for it. Where's the logic? Why not support such a good proposal, so that we can fight bullying, which is a major problem, which destroys teaching and also destroys the working situation of very many children in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1249	I fully agree with the representative of Reikvam that some of the most important things about bullying are awake adults who take responsibility. This is also one of the reasons why the sanctions available in the new chapter of the Training Act have been introduced, precisely to prevent adults from closing their eyes to what is a major problem. When we have not gone into the proposal SV has with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, it is not because we do not want to offer bullying programs in school. Bullying programmes are offered in school, and it still has to. But the question SV raises is to offer this free of charge. We haven't found it necessary, precisely because the bullying programs don't cost a lot of money. It turns out that one of the main reasons why they are working or not is whether adults are awake, not whether the school has got money from the state to buy these bullying programs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1256	I have a specific question for the representative, Ine Marie Eriksen. If it is the case that the Right, and especially the Right Young, have been so committed to ensuring the rights of the students, why did Ine Marie Eriksen not bring her own State Council to set up an independent supervisory body? It is clear that the individual student is going through with his or her case, and it is also entirely dependent on having independent state supervision as a watchtower to ensure that this remedy becomes effective. If we hadn't been able to get a sleeping law treated here today. Fortunately, the majority of the committee was able to rectify this. Then I would like to say to the representative who was now involved in bullying: in fact, there are as many as 1 750 primary schools around the country that have been offered to participate in the bullying program, but there are only 226 schools that have accepted. Once even the Prime Minister has set out a concrete goal of removing all bullying in Norwegian school in two years, it is interesting to hear how in all the world we are going to do this in concrete terms. When we have good bullying programs available, but actually see that School-Norway says no because they don't have finances, it's a legitimate and timely question to ask the government why there isn't a single penny added to these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1263	The discussion of the supervisory body is of the utmost interest. What has been put forward, and which is now the result, is the submission by the end of March 2003 of a case on the proposal for a new supervisory body. But we would never have been satisfied in the world that the government had proposed one or two supervisory bodies that did not work at all. You get primary municipal supervision, and you can complain to the county council. But what is also interesting is that the importance of the supervisory body mentioned by Karita Bekkemelm Orheim is not mentioned in one word in the proposal her own government presented as late as April 2001. Why isn't that mentioned, if it's the essential? If this is what makes the new provisions of the Training Act succeed or fail, why is that not mentioned? Why does it consist of one paragraph with four paragraphs, why isn't it a whole chapter? Why are sanctions not included? Why don't you bring up the bullying program? Why don't you take up the psychosocial environment? I ask myself those questions after the line to Karita Bekkemelm Orheim just because I don't think there's any connection between what her own government suggested just a short time ago, and what she is now saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1270	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1274	The Progress Party is pleased that students have been given greater legal certainty in relation to school conditions. The proposal presented by the Government to the Storting was deficient in some areas. Among other things, it was deficient because one was not prepared to grant individual rights to the students. However, the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party, have made sure to get in place, and we are very pleased with this. In our opinion, an individual right will lead to enhanced legal certainty for users. However, the Progress Party is not equally satisfied with the fact that the rights of students to the school environment are placed in the Training Act. In our opinion, it would be more appropriate and a stronger tool to place students' rights in the Working Environment Act, with the necessary adjustments and adaptations. This will be a signal that children and young people should have the same rights to safe and good surroundings at school as adults do at work. Not least, it could help to focus further on the need to put in place the funds needed to clean up school buildings. It is simply a shame to witness that our children and young people go to schools that are so presumptuous that for example. The mural falls over their heads, while the treasury runs out of money. This is a brilliant example of us in our country being about to save ourselves. At the top of it all, the Government in the draft budget for next year is performing to reduce the lending framework that municipalities can use to make progress in the corrections that are necessary. We know that a number of municipalities do not have the opportunity to borrow the money that is made available from the state for financial reasons. Many municipalities have, through a number of years, neglected the maintenance of school buildings, and this has led to the situation we have today, with school buildings that are not health-friendly. The Progress Party believes that it makes sense for the state to take over the financial responsibility for school builders temporarily, so that something is actually done to improve the situation. It does not help students the way it is today, that the municipality and the state place responsibility for the execution on each other without taking a real lift to improve the situation. It is essential that responsibility be placed with one body, and here we believe the state is the right to hold responsibility. However, where the majority of the Committee has chosen to base the law on the training law, the Progress Party has made a strong contribution to improving the law-making process. For us, the users' rights are the most important at the end of the day, not the law in which these rights are placed. The Progress Party is going to encourage students and parents to use the new legislation actively to push on so that children get decent employment. As far as the supervisory system is concerned, the Government has not in any way understood the decision taken during the examination of the private legislative proposal which referred to the rights of students in relation to the working environment and which was dealt with by the Municipal Committee in spring. The majority’s comment underlined, inter alia: that the Government’s proposals for a new law on the school environment of pupils should provide for an independent supervisory system with sanctioning authority. This is by no means fulfilled. The Government's proposal suggests that there should in fact be two different supervisory bodies. This would have resulted in a powdering of responsibilities. In addition, if the Government's proposal had been approved, it would have become a situation where the goat fits the oat trunk, as the municipality was going to be responsible for following up the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1285	The President would like to ask Mr Koløy if he would like to put forward the proposal No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1288	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1293	The representative of Koløy has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1298	The party of progress is in many ways a wonderful party. In many contexts, strong arguments are being put forward for the reduction of public bureaucracy and public administration. In this context, a government of its own will be built to deal with the thousands of school buildings we have around the country. Not enough with that, the representative from the Progress Party says in clear terms that the municipalities have for several years neglected the maintenance of their buildings. Is it, then, to understand that the Progress Party wants a State task to be entrusted with the responsibilities and obligations and maintenance of the municipalities that have neglected their tasks – which they have of course? What about the municipalities that have carried out their tasks and maintained and built their school buildings in a very good way – which is actually the case in the majority of municipalities in this country? And what about local democracy in this context? Has not the Progress Party at all believed that the Norwegian municipalities and the Norwegian municipal government politicians are able to give priority to what should be done in each municipality? Is it so that the bigotry politicians know best in every context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1307	Yeah, the Progress Party is amazing. At least we've had our eyes opened, we've been in politics in the municipalities for a few years. We see that half of Norwegian municipalities have an economy that says deficits – deficits in the accounts for many years – and it does not look brighter in the future with the policies pursued for the local government sector. We have realism in this and we see, as we did in the hospital sector, that the state is given responsibility. That's where the money is. The municipalities don't have money for school construction, it's clear. The counties had no money for the hospitals, and the state took over. We saw that there was SEK 3.1 billion in over-exploitation in the health sector now, and I think a lot of money will be spent in the school sector too to equip these school buildings. The municipalities do not have the means at their disposal. Local democracy and priority: it's not democracy when there's no money to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1316	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1319	Today, when we adopt the setting of new rules in the Education Act on the school environment, it is a legislative change that will ensure students a good physical and psychosocial environment. This law says that the school should work actively and systematically to promote a good psychosocial environment in which individual students can experience social protection and social inclusion. This means protecting against bullying, violence, discrimination and racism. Initially, it is close to asking the simple question: do we need such a change in law? Is there not good work in the country's schools with regard to the working environment of pupils? We know that school management, teachers, students and parents in many schools are busy with the work environment and are doing a good job at their workplaces. Today, however, no one is directly obliged to do so, that is to say, there is no real guarantee or real protection regarding the working environment of students. Today, when we adopt the setting of new rules in the Education Act on the school environment, we state that it should not be up to the individual teacher or school. This strengthens the importance of the good work that many at school do today. I'm glad that the government has got a majority for this to be part of the training law. It is right that this should be incorporated into the training law, because it is this law that regulates the most central part of the everyday life of children and young people. The working environment is crucial throughout the learning situation. The need to ensure a good school environment for students is no longer left to tradition and chance, but falls into the form of law. A law establishes the difference between right and wrong. In this way, we hope that the law changes will be mind-building and give a stronger focus to a good school environment. A law is always mind-creating. Bullying and harassment will come higher on the agenda. Thus, students can also be made aware of this and even contribute to a good environment. The legislative changes that ensure a good school environment are an important contribution to the desired mobility of value in Norwegian schools. I myself have a background as a teacher and as a principal and believe that the decision will restate the school's efforts. Many people are already doing a good job, but this is a clear signal to the schools to focus on the school environment and to put into practice the space for action and the tools that schools have today. This is about developing an inclusive school culture by promoting students’ development of social skills, including good conflict management skills, by having fair disciplinary strategies and a classroom interaction that develops cooperation and care. Or said in a simpler way, the students should learn to take care of each other. By creating a school culture and organisation with the help and influence of students, perhaps the best foundations for a school environment without bullying and harassment are laid. This proposal goes much further than the consultation proposal put forward by the Government of Stoltenberg. Here the psychosocial environment was not mentioned in a single word. There is no doubt that more than the indoor climate of schools and school buildings can be improved. The ever-increasing number of violent episodes that have taken place in Norwegian school can be a warning that our work on the psychosocial work environment needs to be intensified. The proposal also gives students much greater influence on their own working environment. For the first time, the students get real complaints. The physical environment shall comply with the professional standards recommended by the professional authorities at all times and the schools shall be built, planned and organised in such a way as to take into account the health, well-being and learning of the students. an independent public oversight of the sanctioning authority, e.g.: training offices shall be able to concentrate on the situations in which municipal supervision does not function as it should and act as an additional safeguard. This state supervision is now responsible for responding if students believe that the school has not responded to bullying. In the event of a crime, you must be punishable. Teachers who ignore the harassment of students can be punished with imprisonment for up to three months. In other words, if the school has overlooked the bullying of students, it will be possible for supervision to go to the notification. In the old code, the local government had the authority to report. The government doesn't think that gave the students enough protection. The change of laws does not mean that teachers should now be taken first and foremost, but it is clear that no teacher or principal can fail to take the school environment and the individual student’s well-being seriously. It's historic that the students get a school environment law. The best thing about it is that the law should ensure both the physical and the psychosocial environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1349	The Rune Kärlaa is the Central Party's representative in the Church, Education and Research Committee. He has no seat in Odelstinget, therefore this post from my side. «All pupils in primary and secondary schools have the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.» It says a collective committee that the legal text of Section 9a-1 should be obeyed. A good physical and psychosocial environment is a prerequisite for the optimal functioning of the learning environment. The parallel of the work environment for adults is clear. The Committee notes that pupils must have at least the same right to a good physical and psychosocial working environment as adult workers. The central party is involved in the plurality that believes that a work environment law for the elephants must contain clear indications of the physical and psychosocial working environment, and that the promise must have a driving role and not least: an independent supervisory system with sanction authority. These are essential provisions for the law to be effective. The centre party is pleased that the bill includes the psychosocial environment, and that the legislative proposal makes it clear that the school has an active role to play in promoting a good psychosocial working environment for students. This means that no one can be indifferent if a student is suspected of being exposed to offending words or actions from the elephant or adding them. The ball is to act quickly, and if nothing happens, there is the possibility of complaining under the provisions of the administrative law. In the case of supervisory authority, the Central Party, in the form of the plural government, asks the Stortinget to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for an independent supervisory body with sanction authority. We want a supervisory body that's independent of school owners. We want a supervisory body to make sure that students are safe, a school environment that promotes well-being, health and good environmental conditions. When it comes to the issue of placement in law, the Central Party indicated in our case that we wanted a closer assessment of whether the work environment law could be the natural association. We are now supporting the Government's proposal to provide guidance on the school environment with a separate chapter in the Training Act. The Center Party also believes that the participation of the students together with their parents and adding them through a school environment selection makes clear for all their responsibility for a good and building school environment. Nearly seven years ago, two central party representatives made a proposal that their environmental laws on the working environment should be applied to students. And then in these seven years, there's a lot of distributions. That has been said many good words. Unfortunately, the working environment for many students and for many elephants has worsened during this time. That number of people who have e.g. asthma and allergies, have side effects, are just one of several examples of it. I agree with those who today stress that this is a historic day. But I may also feel the need to say that no one should be tempted to believe that a law alone solves the major challenges that we have in order to secure a safe and inclusive learning environment. It's about stalls, it's about willingness to react, and it's actually also about big common roofs when it comes to shoulders. With a very poor local economy, where other statutory tasks are reduced in these days, it goes without saying that there is a danger that the school environment law may lose much of its power. For our part, we believe that strengthening the local economy is an open priority task, and we will come back to it in the context of the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1370	I agree with the chairman of the committee, who said this is a brand day. We in the Left are proud to be a member of a government promoting this proposal, despite the proposal they had at the hearing of the previous government, and also on the basis of the commitment we especially saw in the election campaign, which SV had with its Document No. Eight proposals, for which we have now been incorporated and given a majority. I don't think the main problem is that people don't care about how the kids are doing. I think local politicians, parents, teachers and anyone who's dealing with the school environment actually care about how the kids are doing. But the problem is that we have had a group, namely the teachers, who have had a code of laws around their working environment, while the students have not had it. And we need a whole in exactly that. It's like there's a very broad consensus about most of the things here, even though the representative Eriksen managed to get some speed in the discussion. I want to bring in a little aspect that has not been mentioned, and it is this hall's great pleasure over government governance and good intentions about the working environment of students, versus what we are really going to be doing in the coming weeks, namely the budget. Perhaps this hall has the joy of ruling and enjoying ensuring rights not always related to the thoughts we have about local people's rule. Three other comments: I think it's very important what comes in on student participation. I would like to point out that it is not always the formal structures that ensure student participation. Good student participation at all levels is ensured by knowing something about children and participation, schooling in children and participation, and having models around children and participation. I think kids can participate at all levels in the design. I've spent most of my life before I ended up here, working with kids and participation, and I've seen seven-year-olds who have put state councils in place. I think that if you manage to get participation models, you should not be so concerned with the formal structures, but most concerned about the competence of those who are going to work on this. So a little bit about the concept of universal design. We see how development is in the school sector, and the universal design of what is the ideal class space, is likely to change dramatically. In the concept of universal design, we need to put some minimum standards on what qualities are, and what is needed, but not necessarily create a universal design of a school that in five years' time we'll discover that we're on the wrong path in relation to the educational design. So a little bit about bullying. I believe that programs help a lot of schools. Programmes are a common way of thinking, and a common way of working at a school. But what's basically talking about is adults who see, and adults who are willing to take things. I've grown up with a small kindergarten – we drove a long way by school bus, and my bus driver named Johan. It was the safest place I had in my entire growth, because he had total control. He had never heard the concept of the bullying program, but he had total control over what was happening in the bus! Having adults who are willing to care, adults who take a position and adults who also take a stand for the weakest, is what is really the key. I believe that what is in the law here in relation to penalties, that adults should see, is the most important measure here. Otherwise, I hope that what we do with these changes to the law, is primarily a local commitment around the pupils' growth. I see an emergence of local students, which I think is very positive, because it leads to local debates, to parents and students engaging in both the growing-up environment and the school environment – physical and mental. And I think that's the local commitment that brings us to the goal of getting good schools, not just the law we're adopting here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1395	The representative, Skei Grande, said in his statement that there is no constant agreement between what is adopted here in the Chamber and what is actually possible for our municipal politicians out in the whole country. I believe that anyone who has participated in some decisions in this Chamber over several years can, of course, take self-criticism as to what the framework of the Municipality of Norway has been like in relation to some of the reforms that have been adopted. But then I want to ask the specific question to the representative Skei Grande: when we are actually dealing with a matter that concerns the students' working environment, also the physical conditions of the students, I cannot understand how the representative Skei Grande can defend that the government actually cuts a billion dollars to school buildings. This means that municipalities have far worse opportunities to implement some of the things Stortinget decides today. – It could have been interesting to hear. So a little comment at the end, on the issue of bullying, which also the representative Skei Grande was in his post. The situation is that bullying in the Norwegian school has increased by as much as 70 pst. during the last six years. And this isn't about the teachers not having a desire to help and help stop bullying. The point is that, as politicians, we have filled so much into the Norwegian school everyday life with new things that there are limits to how much the teaching power actually manages to follow up on different types of issues. Then I want to ask for more specificity in relation to the zero vision of Bondevik. What can we actually expect, and if we don't get to the goal, what will the Government's answer be to all the students in the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1408	I've been a school agency in Oslo. The left has been involved and made a budget since 1997. When Karita Bekkemelm’s party crashed and Hanne Harlem was a school firm, they spent 17 million dollars. kr on maintenance, while we have spent NOK 1 billion each year as long as my party has been in and made the budget in Oslo. I think it's through local actions that you see what you're actually doing. Now budget negotiations are about to start, so there are plenty of opportunities between Orheim to influence what the budget ends with. I think that the problem you see in relation to school construction in this country right now, is primarily the result of an underfunded six-year-old reform from this room. The fact that we had a 6-year-old reform where we were going to put a whole new year's coal into our school system, tied up so much local resources that the maintenance was so bad that we're now in the mess we're in – and I think we can only admit it to ourselves. Yes, the bullying has increased. It's a tougher everyday. Now I think that children have also become more good at saying from, and that means that we notice more things. It's positive. We have a generation of children now who are better able to tell about things. After all, the government has now put forward a plan, and they are actually offering these programs to each school. It's not a big sum of money, but I don't think it's always the programs that are the solution. I think with a good principal with a pedagogical idea and a team of teachers, you can get as far as any program.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1417	Trine Skei Grande used the 6-year-old reform as an example of something underfunded. I think it's one of the reforms that was almost fully funded – the municipalities got support on the basis of expansion, and it spent quite a billion dollars. So it's perhaps one of the reforms that's been the closest to being fully funded. There are quite a number of other reforms adopted here in Stortinget, which are not fully financed, and where the municipalities often sit with blacks. But the 6-year-old reform was therefore quite close, after all, by being fully financed. So I want to follow up on the question from Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, with a slightly different twist. I'm not going to ask questions about what you think about the government's proposal to cut NOK 1 billion, but actually link it to the change in law that we are now doing: the rights that we give to students, the demands we now make on the working environment, both the physical and the psychosocial. Does Trine Skei Grande think there is a need for large investment in education in the years ahead? And does Trine Skei Grande think that this law could be a good break for students and others to get to these investments, to make school buildings better and to create a better working environment for those who are at school, then first and foremost the students? Does she think the billions that are going to come must come from the state? If she thinks so, I guess she can't go in to reduce these billions we've now made available to the municipalities, from $2 billion to $1 billion. I want first of all some reflections about what she thinks will be the need in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1426	I must be allowed to use my own experience, especially from the city we are in now. It is clear that the 6-year reform was fully financed, but there is still frequent correspondence between this house and Mrs. Clemet's department about that very piece. The answer to one question from the representative of Reikvam is: Yes. When it comes to the question of whether all the money has to come from the state, the answer is not necessarily. In Oslo, we have done a great deal without money from the state. What we've done is we've looked at the municipality's total properties, and then we've asked ourselves what's most important to own, to own, to own or to build good schools. Then we sold commercial premises and built school buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1433	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1436	I also think this is a good day. I'd like to join in and characterize this as a brand day, and maybe also a historic day for the students in Norwegian school. I am proud on behalf of the Government that we have promoted this bill. I'd like to join in and give SV honor to that party's long-standing commitment, but I'm probably more surprised when I hear the representative Bekkelem Orheim, who indirectly criticises this government both for delivering a pale bill and for bringing it late. I want to say that I think we promoted this proposal approx. Six months after we joined the government, and when we joined the government, nothing was clear. There are miles of differences between the bill that lay there from the government of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim itself, and the proposal that we have made. The representative from Orheim quoted something from this pulpit that the former Minister of Education had said about the psychosocial environment. As far as I'm aware, it's from a letter that went to the Children's Ombudsman on the last day the last government put in government. I don't think we've spent that much time, and I think this is important. The school is not something you can choose from. Most people can't. Most people also have to go to the school they are given — not so many can choose another school — and students have to be entitled to a safe and good environment. I think this is among the simplest and most legitimate wishes parents have for their children when they send them to school. They want the children to be safe, they want the children to behave properly towards others, and they want the children to learn something. Unfortunately, this is not the case for anyone who goes to Norwegian school. I'm very concerned about quality in school, and I think this is one of the most central challenges for Norwegian school. We know that the quality of the learning outcomes isn't always the best, that it's just middle in central basic education. We know that many school buildings are too bad. We have a rather poor estimate of the number of school buildings that are too poor. There's a lot of numbers going on, but there's a lot of uncertainty about it. I have taken initiatives in the ministry to try to better monitor this. There is too much bullying and problem behaviour in Norwegian school. Here, too, we're going to be careful with numbers, but the most reliable research we have suggests that approximately. 100 000 students in Norwegian school are in possession of bullying, of which approx. Three fourths are victims. As a result, we must also say that user satisfaction in Norwegian school is too low. It's just medium or low, and I think that, among other things. due to lack of influence, lack of transparency, lack of transparency and dissatisfaction with learning outcomes and the learning environment. So this is it important to do something with. The good news is that if we want to do something about the side of the learning environment that concerns problem behaviour and bullying, there's no contradiction between working for a better learning outcomes. Here you have a mutual, positive, and negative effect on each other. So it's a good effort to make, whether you're working on the learning environment and problem behaviour and bullying or you're working on more traditional learning and professional requirements. A law cannot solve all these problems, but it is one of several measures. However, the law is important, for it clarifies the duties and rights of students and parents on the one hand and the employees and owners on the other. It's also important because we've given students and parents much greater user influence. And, not least, I think it is important because it gives a much better judicial remedy by saying that the inaction on the part of the school is actually to be seen as an individual decision that can be appealed against. Adults are given an obligation to respond in many ways. I think only the existence of the law and the debate about it can produce results. I think we already see it. I think we already see a greater commitment in school. The Government shall also make its contribution — not only verbally, as some have expressed here. We offer all schools anti- bullying programs, and not all of these programs cost anything. All schools shall be offered before the end of 2003. We're going to help establish school regulations. We use the Learning Center, and we have entered into a partnership with other actors to try to realize a zero vision for bullying. A zero vision is very ambitious, but I find it hard to have ambitions that we should have some bullying. Any case of bullying is one case too much. The manifest we have signed is not a promise or a guarantee that all bullying will be removed within two years. It is a promise that everyone who has signed should do their best to reduce and preferably eliminate bullying. I also hope that this can motivate the municipalities to engage more in the physical upgrading programme. Since the Municipality of Oslo has been mentioned here, let me just mention that in addition to the fact that the Municipality of Oslo is now spending so much on upgrading the school buildings, one has also learned from the past and is now devoting, as far as I understand, earmarked funds to ongoing maintenance in the future. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1463	When you're going to start summing up the debate here today, I have to say that I'm a little surprised at how high the Right goes on the track in their posts. I think we might also be able to trace a certain wound in terms of the posts that have been held here today. It is true that the Council of State has put forward a proposal that provided for a two-part supervisory system, in which the municipality itself should actually be involved in overseeing its own activities. Then I think it would be interesting to hear a little more factual reason for that very proposal from the Council of State. I would also like to ask whether she also today, after the decision that we are about to reach, believes that what we adopt will not have any economic or administrative consequences. Since we have also not received any particularly clear reasoned response to the cut of NOK 1 billion to school construction, I will ask the same question to the Council of State that I just asked Trine Skei Grande: How in the world are we going to defend this cut when we know that the building situation is so bad around the country? So it's like that right and left repeated times refers to the situation in Oslo. After I've managed to get along, it's probably the case that the City Council in Oslo spends NOK 5000 less on average in schools than the national average. There is no doubt that the needs of School-Norway are great, and that a city like Oslo also has completely different challenges and needs than that of some of our small municipalities in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1474	Who is high on the field and uses strong words and expressions, I think each one can think about. With regard to the questions raised by the representative, Bekkemelm Orheim, I will try to comment on them. Of course, we will, in deep loyalty to the Stortinget, follow up the decisions taken, including the decisions taken on independent State supervision. But I must be allowed to say that even I feel, and the Government believes that we have followed up the request for a public independent supervision in the submission we have had. So the state doesn't own the school buildings. It's the municipalities and county councils that own the schools. Therefore, the State is independent of the municipalities. We have proposed a state supervision. We believe that the country's education offices have school-based competence and competence for children. There's sanctioning possibilities there. It is an existing body and it is also such that that supervisory body can intervene directly. The fact that the municipality also has a primary supervision, I think it can be positive to mobilise responsibility. At least we know from the experience we have with municipal health services and regulations on environmental health protection, that where municipal supervision has worked well, the condition is also the best. So we think that the proposal we have presented is quite good. But I will, of course, do my utmost to follow up what is going to be the decision of the Storting, and I will examine this in more detail, think about it, and come back to that in the spring of 2003. The very best thing would have been to get back in the context of the revised national budget, because we have announced in the budget that we will have a review of the entire government education administration. Then it would have been nice to see this together. But as I said, you do what the Storting decides. In terms of economic consequences: I think it has financial consequences. It is probably implicit in many ways in the scheme decided by the Storting that we should spend NOK 15 billion on school buildings. It is, of course, the economic consequences and will also have to be seen in the context of the demands made on school buildings, which in themselves have been there before, but which are now being clarified in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1485	I registered that the Council of State put in a strong defense for a supervisory model that the majority has expressed is not what you want. This implies that the Council of State has to look at other alternative models. Although she felt that she had made a good model herself, the Storting did not entirely agree with it. It implies that she has to come back to Stortinget with another system, another way of organizing supervision. I can then simply challenge her whether she assesses it so that the Labour Inspectorate can be a good supervisory body. We have argued strongly about it, because it has a competence that other bodies probably don't have – and then it's about building up a new bureaucracy, a new system, alongside something that works for workers, and we could probably easily transfer that competence by giving them this authority that we're reaching, or the authority that we're trying to find a body for. There were some reflections around just that. So for bullying. Governments also spent a lot of time on it, and that's good. I fully agree with her on what goes on in the zero vision. There's no way to say that we have any other goal than to get rid of all the bullying. And then she says that the department will offer different programs to the schools. There is no need for this to happen to the ministry, because already today schools are being offered programmes. Education directors have different programs, and we have other programs that are offered to the schools. So there's no shortage of offers. There are offers, but the problem is that schools simply cannot afford them – they lack 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000 kroner at the cost of these programmes. We have to do something about that, and then there's really only one way to do it: the state goes in and takes responsibility for that particular part. It's very important that the teachers become aware of anti- bullying work, and that they get a reflected attitude to it. So there's no lack of offer, there's no lack of money. Why, then, do not the parties of government and the Council of State want to take part in this proposal? Here they had the opportunity to show that we're going to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1496	Of course, it is quite clear that even if we think we presented a good model where we took into account the original wishes of Storting when it comes to supervision, we have to think again. It's on the clean. When the representative inquires about the competence of the Labour Inspectorate, it is a matter of what kind of competence you are looking for. It is clear that the Labour Inspectorate has a special type of competence in its fields, but what we thought was the advantage of the government’s education offices, which are gradually integrated into the county, is that there is competence in the area of children, there is competence in the area of pupils, there is competence in the area of children, students and health, there is competence in the area of school, etc. There we thought it was a very central competence to supervise the schools. But we'll think about this one more time, and then we'll get back to it. But I can say that one of the reasons why we chose to add these provisions to the Training Act – which I think is a good idea for users too, because it makes it quite user-friendly – was that we should have independent supervision, state supervision, namely state education offices, which are linked to the Training Act. But we have to get back to this. With regard to these anti- bullying programmes, the Government has taken active steps to offer this to all schools by the end of 2003. This is because funds are also allocated on that occasion, and more specifically the so-called Olweus programme. But there are also many other programmes on the market. Everyone's not good, but someone's proven effect. And some of them cost nothing. Everyone doesn't need it. When it was shown that not all schools have asked for this, it is because some schools have already done a job, have already implemented programs or may not have the same kind of needs. And these programs don't cost much. There are some side effects of the state taking over this responsibility, including the economic one. When the state does, it tends to be like that, we look at the field of continuing education, the area of competence development, where the state has assumed so much responsibility that the municipalities almost do nothing. But I'm going to follow it carefully, and I'm going to have high ambitions, and if it's necessary to do it another way, I'll evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1508	I would like to thank the Clemet Council for a very clear and good response to a number of things. But I also want her to elaborate on the fact that the municipalities will have these 15 billion kroner available for the repair of schools and the maintenance of schools. In Hordaland counties many municipalities have loan stops, they must have approval from higher teams. What will the Council of State do with this? So to this with anti-pumping programs. When you go a little bit into these numbers that have been present in some studies lately, you see that 42 pst. By the students, the teacher bullys, and 40 pst. by fellow students. But what was even stronger for me when I read it was that the students say that the teachers are unable to involve them in learning, in trades, and that's pretty serious. That's a situation that we might not have known about. What will the Council of State do in this area? Maybe this isn't just about bullying, maybe there's something about education, and what have you thought about this page in the future? Maybe it's about a longer teacher education than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1515	I've often stated that I'm not quite satisfied with the average learning outcomes in Norwegian school either, that there's a little lack of basic skills, and that it might look like the math skills go back. We got a good example of this when the newspaper hit on its cover that 42 pst. The students are bullied by teachers. The right number is approximately. 5 pst., and the background for the newspaper to write it, was that they couldn't count 42 pst. of an amount of 11 pst. But it's 42 pst. by those who are being bullied, who are being bullied by the teachers. So the actual number is 5 pst. I guess that lookout shows that we have a bullying problem, but it also shows that we have problems with math skills, and that we have to do something with both. When it comes to the question of what kind of impact this will have on education, I think the representative has an important point, which we discussed in connection with the teacher's education message, that being a teacher is not just being a teacher, it's also being a leader, being a class leader. The very knowledge of the profession of classroom management is important, and it was emphasised here in the hall in connection with the teaching instruction. Actually, the work against bullying and the solution to the problem is almost simple: what you need is clear adults. You need good management and codes of conduct. If you do that, you can achieve quite a lot in the schools. But it requires that every adult, not only teachers and school managers, but also other staff at the schools, the parents at home and the neighboring fraternity, and those who pass by, assume a responsibility to intervene when they see bullying happening. As far as the loan scheme is concerned, it was said, I think it was the representative of Bekkemel Orheim, that it was a suitable and good tool. I'm probably in doubt sometimes if I think it's a very good tool, but at least it's an instrument that's been suggested, because the situation has been too bad in school construction. After all, the government has not changed any plans to use the EUR 15 billion framework, but what is to be used annually is then a budgetary question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1526	The government has agreed and announced very ambitious goals when it comes to bullying: abolishing bullying in two years. It has a direct emphasis – a positive note – but also a straightforward wonder. What is the contents of the Government's commitment? How will the Government follow up? After listening to what has been said from the government party and now from the government council in relation to the anti- bullying program, which must be a good ride, I am not getting calmer. It is true that here are tried out programs that, at the individual school, help to put attention to bullying and to raise awareness of the students, parents and those who are added to the school. My simple question is: is it that the government's active steps in this area mean that the schools that want to do so will have the possibility of a program? And is it so that the schools that want it, and that get the possibility, have to pay this for themselves, or set up the government? So the state council says she wants to get an overview of the state when it comes to school buildings. I thought that was very good. She has plans to follow this up financially, for example. with a stepping-up plan, in relation to the municipalities where this is necessary? And will it also, as part of such a state plan, get an overview of all the schoolings and the centralization of schools that are going on right now, with the insecurity that it brings and the consequences that it gets, and the economy that needs to keep up with a decentralised school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1540	I have to repeat: the government has of course not decided to abolish all bullying. It cannot be adopted by the Government, and no one can guarantee that all bullying is gone. But we've allowed ourselves to have a zero vision, to have zero tolerance for bullying. The reason for that is that I think it's very difficult to have an alternative vision that says we're going to have some bullying. This reference to the abolition of bullying in a few years is probably based on some misunderstandings. This is originally an initiative of the Children’s Ombudsman and of the Education Association, or the teacher’s organisations, the KS as the school owner, the Government of the Ministry of Education and Research, where the Prime Minister also participated, and the parents’ organisation, FUG. And then the students have been sitting by all along, but they haven't signed this mentioned manifest, because they shouldn't commit, that's us, that's the adults, so to speak. But the students have been with you all along. What we've signed on is that we each have the means at our disposal to do our best to combat bullying. And then we can have a vision that we can really achieve goals. I've been thinking that I think it's better to shut up in a couple-three years so that the bullying isn't removed than to get it to do nothing. This at least puts a powerful spotlight on bullying, and I think a lot of schools, many parents and many teachers have become aware of this and now do something extra. Thus, with regard to the programmes mentioned, the Government is spending funds on several of the research environments that provide programmes — funds being used. But we've also said that we're going to make sure that at least some of these reach all the schools with an offer. One of these programs, the Olweus programme, will cost the receiving schools something — not much, but something. But there are also other programmes in the market that cost nothing. What we've been trying to communicate to School-Norway is that you don't have to buy any program, because not everyone works well and has documented the effect. But fortunately, in our country, we are very much on the international stage in research into bullying and measures against bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1549	First just a little clarification, so that the Council of State will not get the feeling of unjustified criticism: I have not perceived it so that there are some who have criticised the time-use of the Council of State in relation to getting this matter out. I think it's gone relatively quickly. So, until the school building situation, which — once again — is completely central to the physical working environment of children and young people. I noticed that the Council of State said in its introduction that the department had a problem with figures, and that there was a great deal of uncertainty about the situation of school construction. She also said that she would launch a further screening to get more clarity on it and get more statistics. I mentioned in a previous line here that a majority of the Storting is clearly uninterested in such a material, as there is only one minority who wants to get such a situation report. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: if any parties here at Stortinget were interested in the results of that survey, would the Council of State and the Ministry ensure that these parties got that basic material?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1556	To the extent that I get some information of interest in this area, I will share it with anyone for that matter. I'm standing here with a note from my own department. I have asked in the department, how did you find this loan framework of NOK 15 billion? And just to say that, then you used a bunch of sources to try to form an idea of what the situation was when it was about school construction. I can read: It's information from the Labour Inspectorate, Multiconsult, Aplan Analysis report, NTBU report, Child Ombudsman's mapping, Trondheim calculation, a calculation from a SU director, media posting, etc. Common to this is that it does not give a complete picture, nor is it so easy to obtain it. Because you have to ask yourself, what methods are you going to use, what are you going to ask for, what standard is there going to be, and there's going to be some independent people trying to map this, you have to ask the municipalities themselves? - So on. So it's not as easy as I would like it to be, but I've at least taken steps internally in the department to try to form a better picture of the situation than the picture we have per. today. Now there are 14 billion dollars and 40 billion dollars, but they are based on different types of assumptions and associated with great uncertainty. To the extent that we can get a material that can give a little more certainty about this, of course, I'll be able to share it with anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1561	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1566	I will not extend this debate in particular, but there is a need to comment on a few points that have emerged. The legislative proposal is very offensive in terms of the psychosocial environment of pupils – there can be no doubt about it. The bullying problem in Norwegian school is being taken seriously, and there is every reason. New studies show that, despite all kinds of schemes and programmes, the problem of bullying is increasing — even rising sharply. Good educational programmes and good educational arrangements are important to combat bullying. But my claim is that without responsible adults in the school environment – and that is what teachers say in most cases – their responsibility is conscious, we will not be able to fight the problem. The awake teacher who intervenes when bullying is seen is necessary to ensure the necessary safety in school for individual lives. All of them, most of the teachers are awake – fortunately, and taking action, but for some it's easier to ignore or think it's going over enough. But bullying doesn't pass. That's exactly what the bullying is all about. It doesn't pass, it's persistent. It is therefore positive that the Government is ready at this point. The bullying shall be intervened against, and the school administration shall be notified. If not, it can lead to fines or imprisonment for up to three months, as can be seen in Section 9a-7. I think this is a necessary tightening up and stressing the responsibilities of adults. It has at least been claimed in some newspaper articles that this point was addressed by the Committee. That's not right. The proposal contains the necessary paragraphs on the psychosocial environment, including those on punishment in the absence of intervention. And it can't be stressed enough that the psychosocial environment is very important for the individual student. Security and the sense of social belonging are important for every human being, especially for children and young people. Bullying, violence, discrimination, or other offensive behaviour undermines security and destroys the self-image, concentration and learning capacity of bullying victims. Many students have gone through school without having the opportunity to concentrate on learning. It's been enough to survive everyday life. By adopting this bill, the responsibility for preventing bullying and stopping bullying is further clarified, and that is important. Let me also mention another point: the right is in the majority who want the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for an independent public oversight of the sanctioning authority. We believe that the supervisory function is important in order to ensure the school environment of the students. There are also several hearing bodies that have pointed this out, and we in the Right-wing Committee have been sensitive to this. Today's decision is historic, as it is said. For the first time, the rights of students in relation to the physical and psychosocial school environment are guaranteed by law, and the Council of State deserves praise for a constructive and concrete legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1581	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. [[Footage, see page 69]] However, the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map is finalised – there is one case again and vote – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1599	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see page 71]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e1607	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2133	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2143	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2150	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, with the exception of the proposal for Section 2-7, fourth paragraph, which deletes proposal No. 2, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 3, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2190	Before we go to voting on Section 2-1, the President will vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 16 June 1989 53 on real estate mediation is amended as follows: new paragraph 2-1, fourth paragraph. 5 shall be replaced by the following:5. be associated with the appeal procedure referred to in Sections 2 to 11. The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 2-1 of the sixth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The credit supervision may, in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 2-1, provide detailed rules on training requirements and other professional background for other persons in the undertaking who are engaged in real estate transactions:Persons or companies authorised under the first subparagraph of Section 2-1 and lawyers engaged in real estate transactions may not engage in any activity other than real estate transactions.§ 2-6, second paragraph, shall read as follows:Real estate brokers and lawyers who are themselves engaged in real estate transactions, employees of undertakings engaged in real estate transactions, as well as owners and trustees of such undertakings who are normally engaged in the daily business without being employed, must not be themselves engaged in or engaged in any other business activity, nor be a member of the board, business meeting or representative of undertakings engaged in other commercial activities.Section 2-6, fourth paragraph, shall be deleted.Section 2-7, fourth paragraph. 6 shall be replaced by the following:6. not within the time limit laid down by the supervisory authority to comply with the obligation to join the list provided for in § 2-11.New § 2-11 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2257	It is then voted over the Committee's position on § 2-1.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2290	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 16 June 1989 53 on real estate transactions is amended as follows:The title of Sections 2-3 is replaced by the following:Real estate agents' letters and the titles of state-authorised real estate agents, real estate agents and brokers§ 2-3, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following:Only those who have real estate agents' letters are entitled to use the titles «statutory real estate agents», «property brokers» and «brokers». [[4]] Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they are moving towards the position. It is therefore the first to vote on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2315	It is then voted over the setting. The Progress Party and the Central Party have announced that now that their proposals have been dropped, they will support the vote subsidiaryly, while the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2366	We have now reached § 2-12. Here the rapporteur on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party has put forward a proposal, No. 3, which replaces the setting § 2-12. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 16 June 1989 53 on real estate mediation is amended as follows:New Paragraphs 2 to 12 are replaced by the following:Sections 2 to 12 Prohibition on dealing in real estate This provision applies to real estate agents and lawyers who are themselves engaged in real estate brokerage, employees of real estate agencies, and owners and trustees of such enterprises who are normally engaged in the daily business without being employed. [[1]] Where persons referred to in the first subparagraph have, or are given, a personal or economic interest in the trade to which they are subject, that person or undertaking shall refuse to take up or resign as soon as such interest arises. [[2]] The same shall apply in relation to the related persons referred to in the first subparagraph. [[3]] The credit supervision may provide supplementary rules on the provision referred to in the second subparagraph, including determining who is considered to be related. The credit supervision may provide for derogations from the second subparagraph by regulation or individual decision.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2396	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2435	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2445	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2453	During the debate, Mr Lund, on behalf of the Centre Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government requests that a new investigation be presented by the Government as soon as possible on the basis of which gender-neutral contributions should be made and that life insurance companies should be required to provide pension schemes to ensure this.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2518	The Central Party has announced here that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2576	The Central Party has announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2588	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Central Party also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2598	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2609	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2615	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2 and 3, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2831	The second sentence of the third subparagraph is made subject to an aberrant proposal. That is proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘In Act No 10 June 1988 No 40 on financial activities and financial institutions is amended as follows: the second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2 to 33 shall be replaced by the following:The King may also, by regulation, lay down rules limiting the possibility of the bankruptcy or management board to dispose of loans and other assets included in the portfolio pledge.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2969	Here, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have notified that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e2994	A different proposal is made for the heading and the second paragraph. That is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, which reads: ‘In Act No 10 June 1988 No 40 on financial activities and financial institutions is amended as follows:The heading of paragraphs 2 to 37 is replaced by the following:Information to borrowers – the explicit consent requirement§ 2 to 37 second paragraph is replaced by:Transfer of the portfolio of loans from a financial institution to a special purpose vehicle may only be made subject to the express consent of the borrowers.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3018	The first paragraph of the paragraph is quoted above.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3056	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act amending Law No 10 June 1988 40 on financial activities and financial institutions, the second sentence of the first subparagraph of Decision II shall be replaced by the following: [[securitisation and covered bonds]] First of all, there is a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3076	The Committee's recommendation for II is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3086	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3096	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3140	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3150	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3180	The party of progress here has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3193	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to vote against this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3207	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3271	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3281	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3288	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ine Marie Eriksen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 2-5, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 6, by Rolf Reikvam, on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Simonsenproposal No. 7 and 8, by Jan Koløy, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and by Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9 and 10, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President first refers to proposals Nos. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10. Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party reads: ‘The Government asks for a situation report on the need for upgrading, rehabilitation and construction of new buildings, for public primary and secondary schools.’ [[in Revised National Budget 2003]] Proposal No. 3 from the same batches, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a National Trade Council for Indoor Climate and Learning Environment.’ Proposal No. 5, also from the same batches, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all schools are offered free of charge before the end of the school year 2003/2004.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Jan Simonsen, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case where the Working Environment Act applies to primary and secondary school students and where the Labour Inspectorate acts as supervisory body. [[Law of 4 February 1977 no. 4 on protection of workers and the working environment, etc.]] The regulatory act shall apply from August 2003.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring its own case before the Stortinget for the establishment of a political and ministerial independent representative for primary and secondary education responsible for ensuring the legal security of each student in relation to training and the quality of training.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose, as soon as possible, the temporary state takeover of all school buildings in order to ensure rapid progress in carrying out the necessary upgrading of school buildings so that pupils in school receive a fully satisfactory physical working environment.’ Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party, it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan for upgrading existing school buildings according to the universal design principle.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3430	There are three different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and Left, to the second paragraph, the first sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 9a-2 shall be replaced by the following:The physical environment at school should be in accordance with the professional standards recommended by the professional authorities at all times.’ That is proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to the second paragraph, the second sentence. The proposal reads as follows: The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 9a-2 is replaced by the following:If some environmental conditions differ from these standards, the school must be able to demonstrate that the environment does not have a worse effect on the health, well-being and learning of the students than if the professional standards had been followed.’ And that's proposal No. 9, from the Socialist Left Party, to the third paragraph, the second sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 9a-2 shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3578	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3588	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3604	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3697	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07-lower.ana.ud1626e3707	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
