ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e251	Welcome to a new, long day! The President will inform us that, in cooperation with the Committees, we have divided the day and night into time-bolks, and within the various time-bolks, the Committees themselves have arranged their debate arrangements, so that there is reasonable reason to assume that we will escape at least before noon. 03. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty, and it is the three minutes. The President must ask those who are asking for the floor for three-minute speeches at this morning's meeting to take account of the fact that there are also people who are going to debate a little later in the day, trying to limit themselves. The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e263	On behalf of Christopher Stensaker, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to suggest that we await a possible move of the Nordlands part from the State Archives in Trondheim to the State Archives in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e268	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e282	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Advance Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose exemptions from the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure by giving access to lines, but so that lines and answers are limited to a maximum of one minute each. It is proposed to give rise to a sequence shift of up to three one-minute increments, with replies from the main speakers of each group and five one-minute increments, with replies from members of the Government. The President will be careful to keep the lines within one minute. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e293	«Communic Economy Is Twilight Matter for Special Interests» Stein Aabø wrote in Dagbladet on 14 June. This matter is the theme of the day. I guess the local economy is as far away from the crazier one can get. The economy of municipalities has a direct impact on school provision, on the quality of care for the elderly, on childcare provision, on social services — yes, for the whole of municipal service production — and neither can or should be treated without this as a starting point and basis. An overall committee underlines the important role of the municipal sector for the population and the country’s welfare production. The Committee also states that it is central that the tasks are designed and prioritised in democratic bodies, both municipally and regionally. Increased freedom of choice based on local circumstances is an objective. The Committee also considers it important to play with employees and their organisations and to clarify that municipal employees are a valuable resource. This should provide a basis for a broad consensus on the municipality structure for 2003. ‘Kronen threatens Norwegian exports’, wrote the Address Paper on the leadership position yesterday. The export has dropped by about 10 pst. to date this year. In Nord-Trøndelag, the export fall is 21.9 p.m., in South-Trøndelag on 14.1 p.m. and in the valley of Moreh and Rome on 16.8 p.m. The country's largest bacon producer, Grilstad Fabriker, is flagging parts of its operations to Sweden. Many look forward with concern to the meeting of the Bank of Norway on 3 July. The experts are tracking interest rate increase. Central Bank Manager Svein Gedrem said in his year in spring that industry will lose 60 000 jobs in ten years due to the high use of oil money and the growth of the public sector. This is part of the backbone of the holistic approach that we have to base in our economic policy in the municipal sector as well. We must avoid interest increases to the detriment of the municipal sector and its inhabitants, and we must not least avoid job-rearing in District-Norway for the sake of the workers and the economy of the country. The municipal proposal for 2003 has caused concern among municipal politicians. The opposition parties have accused the government of raging citizens' services – an accusation I cannot agree with. On the other hand, the accusation agrees to build up under the gap between expectations and the ability to meet these which all parties' local politicians strongly warn against. That the opposition is dissatisfied with proposals from the Government is not new. But I would like to stress that the unrest that engaged municipal politicians around the country have shown has made an impression. The Government and the Christian People's Party will work to ensure that the local government sector has predictable framework conditions. In line with the Sem Declaration, we will work to further improve the finances of municipalities in the long term. In 2003, the local government sector receives an economic growth of DKK 2–2.5 billion. This is in addition to the growth in the municipal sector of 900 million. in 2002 continued in 2003. In addition, the agreement on the municipal economy between the government parties and the Progress Party implies that municipalities retain the VAT growth in 2002 and 2003. Per. Today, it is not possible to say how much VAT growth will mean for municipalities next year. But we know that the VAT growth for 2001 was NOK 2.9 billion. Overall, this means that the municipal sector will have a predictable financial framework next year. The Workers' Party has criticised the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the municipal sector. The Labour Party has used different characteristics when the proposal has been debated, but their main message has been that the local government sector needs more money than the government puts it up to. Then it is strange that the Workers' Party in its alternative proposal has a further increase of SEK 1.5 billion for the municipal sector – SEK 1.5 billion to be withdrawn from the municipalities according to the kindergarten agreement. I am based on what Hill-Marta Solberg said in the Evening Post on 19 June: «In the proposed increase to the municipalities, for example, we have taken into account the kindergarten bet». So the Labour Party is actually proposing the same framework for the municipal sector next year as what the Government is doing. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government will come back to the bet on the kindergarten sector in the state budget for the autumn. To those who criticise the rigour of next year's municipal economy, I would say, the Christian People's Party acknowledges, like the municipal minister Solberg has expressed several times. the tightness of the local economy next year. For this reason, it has been important for government parties to ensure a majority of the financial framework. This gives municipalities predictability for the next year already, and it is important for the further financial management. The economy of the municipalities, as I have pointed out, must be seen in the context of the country's total economy for 2003. Tax decisions previously taken by the Stortinget have an annual effect in the 2003 budget, which means that the scope for action to increase the expenditure of the State for that year is limited. Expenditure related to regulatory arrangements, such as: in addition, the sickness pay scheme increases sharply and places ties on significant funds next year. However, it is important for me to clarify that the Government has prioritised increased transfers to the municipalities within the existing operating room. It is important for me to say that the Christian People's Party and the Contracting Parties are aware of the major challenges of increased wage and pension expenditure for municipalities, and we recognise that there is a need for government involvement to facilitate the exceptional situation that has arisen in 2002. This is precisely why we have proposed that the municipal sector should maintain the growth of VAT both for the current year and for the next year. I am very pleased with the initiative the Prime Minister took in order to clarify the situation regarding the pension costs of the municipal sector. On 12 June 2002, a meeting was held in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs with representatives from the Local Government, the Municipal Pension Fund, the Municipal Pension Fund and the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation. The letters of the Council of State to the Municipal Committee of 13 June 2002 point to the agreement on the numerical basis and not least to a possible solution with regard to accounting in municipalities from 2002 in accordance with the principles of the Norwegian Accounting Standard. The Government has decided that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs shall lay down rules for the accounting of pensions in municipalities and counties. The rules will take effect from the financial year 2002 and allow municipalities and county councils to account for a lower amount than the amount that is now signalled as a realistic pension contribution for 2002. The rules, which will be established during the autumn of 2002, shall ensure that the amount to be accounted for annually will be more stable than accounting for annual pension contributions. When this is said, I want to make a clarification. There must never be any doubt that the local government sector itself is responsible for compensation of employees and pensions. What wage-earning arrangements and what pension schemes are negotiated with employees must be adapted to the existing financial framework. In 2003, the local government sector receives a real income growth of 1.25 pst. From 1998 until this year, municipalities have had an average annual income growth of 1,16 p.p., i.e. a lower income growth than in the next year. I am particularly pleased that it is possible to generate growth in the free income of municipalities. Next year the growth will be about 750 million. kr. I have faith in local self-government. I think that the priorities that are needed are best known in the individual community. Do you need kindergartens or improved primary schools? The answer to this is not similar everywhere. Therefore, it is important that this will show our local politicians the confidence that lies in a reduction in earmarked grants and increased transfers in the form of free revenues. Good care for the elderly is important for the Christian People's Party. We are therefore pleased that the government parties and the Advance Party have agreed that the retirement plan should be completed by building a further 5,000 nursing homes and nursing homes. It is also important for the Christian People's Party to stress that the disabled are prioritised in next year's municipal planning. Thirty million. SEK has been allocated for the outsourcing of young people with disabilities from old-age and sick homes, and another 50 million. SEK in addition to the Government's proposal, a total of 650 million. kr, is set aside for particularly resource-intensive users. It is very gratifying that the government parties, together with the Progress Party, were able to find good solutions for these groups. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals No. 1–5, where the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party are proposers. I would also recommend that the government parties vote in favour of the nomination I, II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e337	Ivar Østberg has addressed the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e342	The representative of Østberg should remain too good to misinform the Stortinget. The Labour Party has a higher financial framework for the municipal sector than the Government. I will come back to that in detail in my main post later in the debate. Many spokespersons call for caution against the government's municipal arrangement for 2003. The party of progress helps the government with the swallowing of the municipalities, says a spokesman. Bondevik must be aware that the road to welfare is going crazy now, says spokesman Jan Erik Gyllensten. He belongs to the same party as the Prime Minister. My question to the representative of Østberg is therefore: does Gyllenstein give a correct or distorted picture of the future of our municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e351	As I pointed out in my article, the scheme that the Government has will give a greater growth than that which has been the average from 1998 until this year. So the government's plan will provide a real income increase for Kommune-Norway of NOK 2–2.5 billion. As I also pointed out, it is necessary for us to have a holistic view as we approach the economy. Then I get questions about the rapporteur, Mr Gyllenstein, describing things correctly. I have said that we take the signals from Municipality-Norway seriously, but there is a significant deficiency in the assumptions that the Government and the cooperation parties will clear up. It is the pension costs that have been the major threat to Kommune-Norway, and we have now taken action to solve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e360	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good report, in which he made a good presentation on the municipal proposal for 2003 and the agreement with the Progress Party. In fact, I want to take off my hat for what the rapporteur has done, and much of what he has written, the Progress Party can definitely stand behind. However, I would like to point out that I have recently read on the Statistical Central Bureau pages that saving on municipal mergers could be from NOK 3 to 4 billion. So it looks like there's a considerable amount of money to save here. The Progress Party has proposed that it should produce a concrete, but, of course, non-binding, investigation of the municipal structure in this country. Of course, volunteering must be at the bottom if aggregation is to be carried out. However, I would like to have the rapporteur's view on what he thinks about the proposals of the Progress Party regarding a more rational municipal structure in Norway, and on which municipalities should be merged.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e369	For the Christian People's Party, volunteering is the fundamental principle of the issue of community reunification, a decision taken by the Stortinget in 1995 and which has never since been lifted. The Christian People's Party wants to stimulate broader and deeper intercommunal cooperation in a number of areas, and I remember what the Government of the City Proposition has put up in terms of the disaggregation grant. I myself was the case rapporteur for the division law, and a ten-year breakdown grant was introduced. The Government has now provided and supported the continuation of this scheme as a phasing-out mechanism for a further five years. I think these are the tools we need, and not the setting up of an investigation commission, as the Progress Party suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e376	‘It shall be marked as being in government,’ writes Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on the Christian People's Party's website. And those who get noticed now are schoolchildren, who don't get alternative education, and disabled people, who don't get help for the very most elementary. We have no more room for action, says Christian People's Party and Ivar Østberg today, because we have used it up – not for what Valgerd Svarstad Haugland says on his website, namely that we who live in abundance are going to share more, but to distribute tax credits to the millions of people, the richest. Is it really true that the Christian People's Party believes that it threatens Norwegian economy, among other things. with interest rate increases — and it was certainly also both bacon sausages and bacon that were threatened — if schoolchildren are given alternative training and a good school, and disabled people can get up and go on do when they have to?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e385	Help is still to be given to disabled people. Disabled people will continue to receive help in Norwegian school. Those who need help to get in the toilet should still get that help, and there is nothing in the local authority's proposal that it should not be possible. I've expressed that it's going to be a tight economy. Nobody wants us to rage at jobs, that we rage at the value creation that we all – including the school – depend on. At the same time, even though we live in a scattered rural area, we know that Norway is one of the top countries in fifth place, according to OECD estimates, in terms of school spending. So we spend a lot of money on the schoolwork. I am not afraid that the disabled should not still be able to feel good in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e392	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e396	The municipalities are a crumb in our society. They are the sovereignly most important well-being builder in the country. They produce services as residents of the 434 municipalities and the 19 counties every day. In this way, the municipal sector is given a very special role in our everyday lives. The Labour Party therefore believes that it is very important that the public sector's task solution remains under local and regional democratic control. When municipalities and county councils provide most of the welfare services, the two must also have a financial framework to enable them to provide the services needed by the inhabitants. For the Labour Party, it is a priority task to provide the municipalities and municipalities with sufficient resources to carry out their welfare tasks in a satisfactory way. We want well-being that is fairly distributed, not a distribution that left the wallet decisive for whether or not you get a welfare offer. Your fundraiser should not determine the quality of the welfare services you receive. This is the foundation of the Workers' Party. We will simply be a guarantor of the well-being of our society. The Government of Bondevik has put forward proposals on how the municipal economy should be in 2003. It announces a difficult everyday situation for those who want to use the welfare services in their municipalities. The growth in total next year's revenue shall increase by NOK 2–2.5 billion. It's a much worse setup than it's been in the past few years. State Council Solberg said that the day she presented the proposal: it will be a tough arrangement for the municipalities next year. And it added that for some municipalities there is a reduction in the provision of welfare. It's an unusually bad place for those who live in our municipalities. The consequences will be noticeable next year: the government will provide too little funds for kindergartens around the country. There may be a deterioration in the supply. They will lose most of it that has the greatest need for kindergarten space. There'll be too few municipal dollars for training in many of our basic schools. The quality of the training will be reduced, contrary to the promises made by the government party in the election campaign, not least to the Right. There will be less resources for extra training for those who wear the most during their training. Such a policy is very unfortunate. The most frequently needed frames are those that need most help. Differences in society are increasing in this way. The Government Party and the Progress Party negotiated the municipal economy for 2003. The four parties were some. But it gave a bad solution. Not a penny more for kindergartens, schools and elderly care in the municipalities next year, despite the fact that the reactions to the government's proposal have been unusually strong and negative from municipal politicians most. Those who know their daily lives in municipalities have given a clear signal: more resources are needed for the municipal sector to sustain welfare. But it hasn't made any sense. Not on the government side. Not even Per Sandberg from the Progress Party. When the agreement was made between his party and the government party, he simply said, "We are very pleased." The Labour Party believes that the growth in total income of municipalities must be increased to DKK 3.5 to 4 billion for 2003. There are $1.5 billion more than the government wants to use. That is one of the main questions that Stortinget is going to address today. The results have a great deal to say about the provision of municipal services next year to children, young people and the elderly. The second main question is pension costs. This year, municipalities receive substantially higher pension costs than expected. There's every reason to believe they'll be in later years too. The Labour Party disagrees with the Government's plan, which requires municipalities to take full responsibility for pension expenditure. In this case, further reductions in the provision of welfare would result. It is a policy that the Labour Party cannot accept. Therefore, we propose that new measures be implemented already for the current year: municipal accounting rules need to be changed so that municipalities and county councils can even out year-on-year deviations from a realistic long-term pension premium. A loan or fund arrangement must be established. In this way, municipalities can cover their pension obligations. The purpose of such a scheme is to enable municipalities and county councils to borrow funds from the country or draw on the fund when the pension contribution is above the average. When the pension contribution is below the average, it must be repaid or entered in the fund. For 2003 and later years, the Labour Party proposes that regulatory changes be introduced to take account of conditions other than wage growth when compensation of pension costs is made. The following factors shall be taken into account: increasing pension costs associated with an increase in the number of disabled persons, increasing pension costs associated with an increasing proportion of older workers and other underlying demographic conditions and state-initiated changes in pension policies, such as: the coordination rules, the rules of accounting in the public interest and the statutory service pension schemes. In addition, it is suggested that the Government return to the Storting with proposals on how the fluctuations in pension contributions in the local government sector can be evened out over time. The Labour Party wants to promote the issue of pension costs by 15 October of this year. It is striking that the Government does not take responsibility for the serious situation in which the municipalities are located because of the high pension costs. Not a single proposal will be put forward to remedy the situation. The Government Party and the Progress Party are bounded to ask the Government to work to ensure that the local government sector can account for a stable annual pension cost from 2002. It's defensive. The consequence is significantly greater economic problems in the municipal sector than it is currently expected. The reduction and deterioration of supply are unfortunately the result. It is a policy that the Labour Party cannot accept. The State has to take responsibility for the fact that these costs can be met without a reduction in the provision of services in the municipal sector. This may be done outside the budgetary framework by means of a government loan or fund arrangement. The working party points out that this does not lead to an increase in the pressure in the Norwegian economy. On the other hand, there is a normalisation to the level of activity envisaged. The Government Party and the Advance Party reject the proposals from us this evening. That's bad news for the municipalities. They themselves are fully responsible for greatly increasing pension costs. Common people get to notice it in terms of even poorer provision in kindergartens, in schools and in care for the elderly. It's an unsocial policy. The government prioritizes tax relief and non-welfare. It's a deliberate political choice when the government wants those who think the most in society to have huge reductions in tax. The Labour Party rejects such a policy. We want to spend a lot more money on welfare measures in municipalities. It is necessary to ensure fair distribution, which is a pillar of our policy. The government argues for more efficient and competitive provision of municipal services. Clearly, it should provide municipalities with a better economy. Of course, the Labour Party believes that the renewal of the public sector is an important objective. However, the efficiency requirement should not be so high as to lead to a reduction in the population’s tenteenth supply. The government has too much expectation of the result you can achieve from efficiency. In addition, the Government attaches great importance to the ability of competition to generate significant savings in the local government sector. However, no corresponding emphasis is placed on the quality of the services and the different needs of the inhabitants. Therefore, the Labour Party cannot accept the Government’s policy in this area, which sets strict requirements for efficiency improvement, and which places a strong emphasis on competitive exposure as an instrument. When well-being is weakened, it is usually those who need these services most, which become frames. This will undoubtedly be the case when local authorities are given too little funds for the tasks for which they are responsible. Baseball is a core activity in municipalities. For the Workers' Party, having a public school is free of charge for everyone. That's why there's every reason to get upset when we're told that parents in Nittedal and in Oslo feel compelled to pay school money to get a proper school for their children. And the economy is getting even worse in the municipalities in 2003 after the government's arrangement. It's close to thinking that there can be a conscious wish behind it, a desire to weaken the public school. In this way, a way of establishing private schools is paved, in line with the bill that is clearly under way. The Minister of Education will provide better financial conditions for the private spheres. It should also be understood that private schools can be established without requiring alternative pedagogics or a particular religious background. This fully indicates that in the government quarter there is a commitment to weakening the public school. The struggle for money for the schools is even greater than before when the same amount of money is going to be shared by more people. This week the Stortinget made a historic kindergarten decision. From August 2004, all children will have guaranteed kindergarten space at a price of NOK 1500 per day. month. Unfortunately, the government has tried to spare its missing bet on kindergartens. They would no longer comply with the promise of a price of less than NOK 1500 per person. The month, as they said in the election campaign. The government party would also not be involved in the economic lift to which it is going. They deliberately chose to be outside the conciliation that was concluded. The majority have now established the course without the government party participating in the creation of a new policy. We note that the local government's central association believes that the agreement binds 3 billion kroner of the free funds to the municipalities. These are funds that are currently being used for kindergartens. We expect municipalities to use the same amount in the future. These funds will be used to determine the total or part of the buffer that local authorities will be required to handle. to smooth out cost deviations. The size of this buffer will not be established yet. Local authorities may even be able to transfer larger sums than they are now, when a set of price notes on the services and tasks allocated to municipalities. It's clear that the biggest increase is coming through the state bill. As a result, there is no basis for claiming that the freedom of action of the municipalities is reduced because of the child care agreement. We've come to a time gap, said a very experienced municipal politician here by day, and he's talking about the government's municipal proposal for 2003. He noted that the municipalities were asked to cut down on the welfare supply. For the first time since World War II this is said by a government. This naturally raises enough awareness. Many others also have late words about the government’s financial arrangements for the municipalities for 2003. A number of vocabularies have done so in the last few weeks. ‘This just doesn’t go any further. Bondevik is the boss, and he has to take responsibility and get us more money," says Fusa's spokesman, Asbjørn Heidal. He belongs to the Christian People's Party. And as if it were not enough: Roar Obrestad in Suldal expresses himself as follows: «Bondevik should be aware that there is a clear pain limit for us local politicians». Obrestad is a spokesman, and he belongs to the same party as the Prime Minister. The criticism from the spokespersons of the government party has been massive. This is in stark contrast to the assessment given by the case-speaker, Ivar Østberg, to Stavanger Aftenblad. Østberg simply states that tighter economies don't just need to be negative, and adds: «Trange times often trigger creativity that can give better solutions...» In the Christian People's Party, there is clearly different understanding of our daily lives in our municipalities. Next year, there's a choice for the local government and our county council. It hasn't always been easy to recruit good candidates. Now, this becomes even more difficult, showing an examination between a selection of vocabularies. With the economy proposed by the Government next year, it will be a central task to make unpopular decisions in municipalities. Welfare measures must be reduced or removed. Many of our spokesmen say they won't stand for election again because they get poorer financial conditions to work under. So bad local economy is going to be a threat to our people's rule. But Hans Kristian Hogsnes of Right-wing knows that the rapporteurs must rather resign if they don't think they can do their job." It's Hogsnes' message conveyed through TV 2 and Tønsberg's magazine. I understand that many people in our municipalities feel provoked. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Labour Party and the proposals where the Labour Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e442	The representative Sandal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e447	The representative, Reidar Sandal, shall at least not be accused of being a joyist. In the child care agreement mentioned, the Workers' Party is in favour of a state-owned co-financing of childcare facilities. It doesn't mean more money to the municipalities, it means less. Billions shall be deducted from the municipal budgets. It may be thought that this is good for kindergartens, but it is not good for municipal freedom of action. A municipal buffer does not change this main image. Reidar Sandal said in his post that you should not withdraw money from the municipalities. This is contrary to what SV claims, namely that it is a point in itself to override the municipalities of kindergarten policy. Reidar Sandal says the Workers' Party is going to spend a further SEK 1.5 billion for the municipalities. At the same time, Hill-Marta Solberg, in the evening post yesterday, says that the one and a half billion must be seen in connection with the nursery agreement. This is at best double accounting. Now, Reidar Sandal has to answer: is that one and a half billion going to the municipalities, or is that part of the kindergarten agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e456	It's not like the representative Sanner is trying to make it, that we have a financial arrangement for the municipalities that are not realistic and credible. We say that we will give 1.5 billion kr higher revenues to the municipalities next year than the government party and the Progress Party are in favour. There's a point of view that stands firm, no matter what kind of benevolence the representative Sanner is trying to get ahead. I argued that the government party has also intended to use funds for nursery schooling next year. What we might need for more money for our nursery bet is the difference between the government's expenses and ours. That's what we're going to do in our municipal framework for next year. Otherwise, I thought that what is essential in this debate is that the members of the government, including the council of state, Svarstad Haugland, adhere to the Stortinget's decision on child care. That's what's the political point now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e465	I will first commend the representative Sandal, who, throughout his contribution, sums up ten years of mismanagement in the municipal sector – by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Because that's what the representative Sandal did. It cannot be the case that in the municipal sector there has suddenly become such a crisis overnight. This has been going on for many, many years through mispriorities from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party – not only from Stortinget, but also from the rapporteurs of the Workers' Party outside the municipalities. It is therefore interesting that the representative Sandal points to recruitment. Now he belongs to a party that experiences the opposite, while there is great interest from our ranks to enter into local politics. And that might be what's necessary. My question is about what the representative Sandal says about efficiency improvement. I understand that Sandal is at least interested in extracting the efficiency potential in the municipal sector, while Stoltenberg in today's version of the Municipal Report says that there is no more to pick up. [[President clubs]] Does Jens Stoltenberg and the representative Sandal agree or disagree on whether it is possible to extract more of the resources in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e472	I must ask the representative to respect the speaking time. One minute won't be anything anymore even if you talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e475	Jens Stoltenberg and I, of course, have a parallel view of improving efficiency in the municipal sector. If you read the Municipal Report for today, and keep what it says, along with what I said in my post, you will find that there is full consistency between the fines. Otherwise, I will strongly refute the representative Sandberg's claim that the Labour Party's error priority. I've done well because we're now faced with an ideological choice in the question of the municipal structure for next year. There is the choice between investing in common property, building well-being in our municipalities, and giving a tax relief of over 30 billion dollars during the ageing period. That's the choice you're going to have right now. In that election, the representative Sandberg and the Progress Party have chosen the wrong side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e482	It is somewhat surprising that the Workers' Party dramatizes the local economy so much, but has so little to do with the sea. What has surprised us and which we are concerned about is in particular the great spin-off the Workers' Party has done in relation to the county's finances and hospitalization. What's happened? In the newspaper yesterday, County rapporteur Ragnar Kristoffersen, Labour Party in Akershus, wrote about a little rusty and a little tidy settlement. As late as April, the Labour Party agreed with SV that previous hospital deficits should not be included in the county budget of 2002. It's happening now. Now we're going to turn this deficit into a long-term debt that you're going to go with for many years and pay for, and that's going to close for necessary borrowings, for example. in secondary school, which is absolutely necessary. What in the world is what has happened to the Workers' Party in this important matter, and do they think that this arrangement is rusty and tidy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e487	Of course, the Labour Party has not forgotten the promises we have given and the points of view that we have had in the past. We will increase the economic framework for the municipal sector, including the county, for next year, and we will set up a growth in the free income. It will also benefit the county councils. Otherwise, I'd like to emphasize that this case has two main pages. One is that the economic framework needs to be expanded beyond the government’s arrangements – we effectively support this with our approach. The second is to find a defensive solution to pension costs, which has increased strongly in the municipal sector. The Labour Party has taken the lead there. And I'm pleased to record that the Socialist Left Party and we are on the way a few things about the setup. There are many extra dollars in the municipalities as well as in the counties around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e499	The economic situation in many Norwegian municipalities is difficult. Sometimes it's very difficult. Many local politicians signal that they will not be able to solve the tasks they are required to do within the economic framework set at their disposal. I believe that this message has been made clear to a part of Kommune-Norge, both through the contacts that have been made through the Municipalities' Central Association and all the enquiries that have come directly from municipalities and county municipalities. That is why I think we should be able to agree quickly on a description of reality, how local politicians in many Norwegian municipalities now feel. I believe that both the Government and all the parties on the Stortinget take this seriously. However, the picture is complex. Municipality-Norway is very diverse. That's why I think the medicine also has to be a little bit different. I believe that the eagerness after non-discrimination and attempts to reconcile any difference today is one of the most contributing to the increase in differences. The income system is still very complex and inconclusive, and continued flotation only contributes to cementing and reinforcing the differences. Moreover, so many in this Chamber have a past as municipal politicians that we know very well that most municipal politicians will not be particularly objective in assessing the finances of their own municipality. Any change that is in favour, they rarely protest particularly strongly against, but a change that reduces the availability of resources, no matter how fair such redistribution would be, will most often arouse loud protests. It's just like that. It's one of the things that makes the task and the role of the Communes' Central Association so difficult. There will and will be a difference between what is most necessary to do, whether we are in Vardø, in Hjelmeland, in Tønsberg or in Oslo. There's a lot of the challenge for us sitting here in this room. I am well pleased with the grip the government takes on this. There will, of course, always be a discussion of how much resources are to be deployed and how much resources are available. The worst politicians know, is to give priority, but I've long understood that there's a much simpler problem in the opposition than in the position. That reality can lie like a back porch when we're in the process of today's debate. The government is clear that the municipal structure next year is tight, yes, for some municipalities it will be very tight. Nevertheless, there is a fact that there is a big difference between how much and how well the municipalities have tackled their challenges. Fresh KOSTRA figures tell us that many municipalities have a still great potential to improve their own business, or simply to get more out of the money they have at their disposal. This can be done either by changing the way the municipalities themselves perform their tasks or by finding solutions together with others. No one must come to say that they have tried everything. Most municipalities in this country still have the potential to do their tasks even better. But it takes courage. It requires new solutions, and it requires ability to see new opportunities with others. Some of the principal speakers in the municipalities contribute well to the potential of the municipalities. What is meant to be a struggle for District Norway sounds more like a mobilization order for today's young people to get to the central strike as soon as possible. Many of the municipalities actually have even less to go by. builds up, but seems strange enough as places where the possibilities of the future lie. We will certainly see this in today's debate. Someone's talking down District Norway, even though they're trying to give the opposite idea. What you are asking for is only more of a policy that has worked badly. It should be thoughtful, when someone has now formed what they call the ‘People’s Action for redistribution, well-being and democracy’. From the Right, we are very pleased with the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party on the Municipal Economy for 2003. We agree that this is a very tight approach, but the agreement means that the municipal sector will now retain the VAT growth for both 2002 and 2003 in addition to the growth of between DKK 2 and 2.5 billion in 2003, which is already in the projection. The municipal bill provides the municipal sector with predictable framework conditions for 2003, which is important at a time when the economy is tight, and the government party agreement with the Progress Party further improves. Worth mentioning in this context is the provision of services to the weakest groups. That's why we're still choosing to label $30 million. for the discharge of young people with disabilities from old-age and sick homes. At the same time, another 50 million are earmarked. So we're going to add up to 650 million. kr to particularly resource-intensive users. This will be a transitional arrangement for the Government in 2004 to come back with a top-level funding scheme for this group. The Contracting Parties also agree to extend the commitment framework for the action plan for the care of the elderly by 3000 sick places in addition to the Government’s proposal in St.meld. No 31 for 2001-2002. This means that the action plan can now be completed on the basis of the applications received from municipalities by the deadline of 1 October 2001. Rapidly increasing expenditure on pensions has been the main element of the debate on the local economy over the past few weeks. There is no doubt that the growth of pension expenditure poses major challenges for the local government sector. The representatives from both the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party therefore stress in their comments that the primary responsibility for the development of wage and pension costs lies with the local government itself. It is essential for a well-functioning competition between pensioners that the State does not intervene in such a way that costs which should be borne by their owners be passed on to taxpayers. Companies themselves are responsible for sufficient financial strength to cope with fluctuations in the return on capital and thereby contribute to the stability of annual pension contributions. I believe to be able to record the correspondence from the last days that someone now feels a need to tone down the crisis mood on the pension front, and it confirms the strength of the arrangement that the government parties and the Progress Party choose to follow here. Local authorities are better able to meet the premium increase resulting from wage-fixing and other relevant contractual conditions. The construction of additional provisions is a commercial assessment, but it must be allowed to recall the repayments made by local authorities' own companies to their owners in 1999 and 2000, which was also used for all of the value of the growing competition for municipal pension contributions at that time. The fact that premiums were too low in 1999 and 2000 is apparent afterwards with all the desirable clarity of the movements in the additional provision in the years 1998–2001. The fact that a poorly marketed poverty description would have an effect on the assessment of the current situation by both customers and competitors should not come as a surprise. And I have noted with interest that the pension problem is now fading. The important point here is that the government parties and the Progress Party create a more predictable economy through the 2003 municipal economy structure, and that through an expected VAT growth, municipalities are also better able to meet increasing pension costs. I also register with great satisfaction that the municipality's own pension company, KLP, now also takes steps to collect more equity and has arranged to spread ownership somewhat, so that the municipalities that want to reduce the risk associated with ownership can hopefully do so. Municipalities, as large employers, are already at high risk through the vulnerability of growing expenditure on pensions, if they do not also have to double-expose the risks through ownership of companies to participate in increasingly tough competition in the insurance, property and financial markets, both nationally and internationally. Overall, we are pleased that the Government seems to be joining the main lines of its 2003 municipal economy plan, and that through the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party, we have been able to further improve this structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e531	The representative of Hogsnes has been rapporteur for many years. Now his former Right Colleague Margaritha Rambøl in Rälingen says that the Mayor lives in a different world. Heir Toning in Ålesund says that the government's understanding of what is happening in the municipalities is absent. But the previous Right-Rapporteur, Mr Hogsnes, answers: ‘The rapporteurs must also resign if they do not think they can do their job.’ Does the former Right-Rapporteur Hogsnes think that Rambøl, Toning and other Right-Rapporteurs who react strongly to the Government's municipal arrangements should resign?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e543	I think that this question is best for both Toning and Rambøl to answer themselves. Many of the rapporteurs' jobs are to fight for the best possible framework conditions for their municipality, on behalf of their citizens. Their mandate is their own citizens and municipality. It is short and well a bit of their job to complain. What I have commented on are the rapporteurs who threatened to withdraw if they did not get a better community economy. And then the answer was clear: then maybe they should do it. That may not be the spark, the surplus or the ‘tired’ there to meet the challenge of being a rapporteur in a Norwegian municipality. But each rapporteur himself is the closest one to consider: have I ‘dreamed’?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e552	It is a bit polite to listen to the representatives of the Workers' Party who bring forward some rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party and the Right, who are now in some way insurrection. We must not go back so many years to find a collective rapporteur's corps from the Workers' Party who protested against the Labour Party's district policy and local economy. But to the representative Hogsnes: he was involved in this with misunderstandings in relation to the income system of the municipalities. And here I would like to challenge him: what will the Right do to get more justice and equality in relation to the transfer to the municipalities? For the situation is actually the way the representative Hogsnes dealt with: the differences are so large that some municipalities have NOK 18 000 in income per person. the population, while other municipalities have twice as much income per year. the population. At some point, we have to do some action to cancel this out. Here is my challenge to the representative Hogsnes: What will the Right do in the short term to smooth out the imbalances that already exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e561	I have confidence in the work of the Government and the Ministry of Local Affairs in this area. It is quite right, as the representative Sandberg points out, that there are distortions in the income system. There is ongoing work in the Ministry in that respect. In addition, a review of the entire income system, as a follow-up and evaluation of the work of the Rattsø I Committee, will be carried out gradually. I guess the municipal minister will be able to come back to that in an article later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e568	On the front page of the Newspaper today, what we really knew is that it's going to be a better school for the students, where the students learn more, if it's invested in them. One of the students says this: «The teachers often have a bad time. They're going to reach a lot of students every hour, and there's always some students who don't get help per hour. Ripped teachers provide poor environment and little motivation. But it is not the teachers who are to blame." In the election campaign, the Right promised two things: Better school and lower taxes. Both parts cost money. Now the Right has spent money on lower taxes. But if you're going to keep the election promises, you're going to have to bet money on the school as well. And how on earth have the Right intend to keep the election promise for a better school if the municipalities are forced to cut the school budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e578	It's about continuing to work on building up the local authorities' operating rooms. That means that we need to have less earmarking and a greater share of free income, and we need to enable each municipality to make the choice that is important for that municipality. It'll also give you a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e591	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e594	I would first like to thank, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Presidents and members of the Governments of the Municipal Committee, for a good and constructive cooperation in the demanding process of achieving a sober but nevertheless good approach for the Norwegian municipal sector in 2003. My assessment is that the result that exists and that has been agreed between the Progress Party and the Government Parties is satisfactory for the local government sector. The agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties on the 2003 municipal proposition has resulted in a real growth of 2–2.5 billion kroner in the municipal sector next year. This is in addition to the 900 million. the Contracting Parties have agreed to add the local government sector to the revised national budget for 2002 and to be continued in 2003. Overall, this represents a real economic growth in the local government sector of well over DKK 3 billion in 2003 compared to the state budget for 2002. Furthermore, the agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties ensures that the municipal sector will retain more of the tax growth both this year and next year, that the major urban grant will be extended to seven cities, a further 3000 new health homes are agreed, the national border regime is saved, sufficient financial resources for the relocation of young people with disabilities from old-age and sick homes are secured for 2003. It has been set up to establish a permanent top-level funding scheme for particularly resource-intensive users from 2004 and to safeguard the interests of that group through the 2003 discretionary grant. A majority comment has also been included that is positive to the establishment of a rehabilitation centre abroad. Although the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have, this time, come up with some harsh criticism of the content of the Municipal Proposition for 2003, and say that more money is needed for the local government sector, it is my view that much of the criticism is well above objectives. However, I should not like to suggest that the local government sector is facing major challenges, both in terms of the growing expectations of its citizens and of the scale and quality of service provision, and in terms of financing the increasing wage and pension costs of the local government sector. At the same time, however, it must be clear that the local government sector has an autonomous obligation to operate as cost-effective a service production as possible. Here I regret the unwillingness of local authorities to improve efficiency through the use of competitive outsourcing. For recent years, several reports and investigations have been submitted which conclude that there are significant sums to save on the use of tenders and competition on the operational side of public service production. Several investigations have actually concluded that it is economically 5-20 pst. saving through the use of competition or privatisation as an instrument to increase the efficiency of public service production. Even an estimate of just 5 pst. the savings gain is likely to represent an amount greater than the amount entered by both the SV and the Central Party in order to provide additional appropriations to municipalities next year. We should notice this. I would have liked to see a more pragmatic and more positive attitude, at least in the Workers' Party, towards the application of competition in the municipal sector. For competition, such as the entry of the market into the public sector, great scepticism and multi-stakeholder resistance have been completely unjustified. This is sin, and it must be based on a great deal of misunderstanding about what competition entails and is. It is therefore very gratifying that there is now finally a majority in this Chamber in order to adopt a sensible policy by the central authorities in order to make the element of competition more effective in the public sector and in the production of services. It is only in this way to complain that the parties that complain the most about poor local economy are also the most opposed to competitive outsourcing, although there can therefore be a significant potential for saving, efficiency and quality improvement in this particular instrument. The promotion party’s municipal policy strategy is to facilitate efficient and needs-based municipal service production for the benefit of both users and taxpayers. In addition, in order to achieve the objective of adequate capacity, quality and efficiency in public welfare production, it is also important to put in place a new funding system for welfare services, based on a state-wide pricing principle based on the most objective criteria. The Progress Party therefore proposes a new funding system for the basic welfare benefits, where the State is to assume full financial responsibility. In addition, the availability of public welfare services must be ensured through statutory rights and a high level of individual freedom of choice for users. But also in terms of rationalising the administrative structure itself, there is likely to be a lot to save. The county should thus be closed. It has become completely pointless to maintain the county after the hospitals became state-owned. The county council today represents an absurd and irresponsible waste of taxpayers' and society's money, which we cannot defend in the long run when there is a lack of money for old, sick, schools and children in this country. Similarly, we need to look at today's municipal structure. There is a significant rationalisation gain in getting a structure based on fewer and larger municipalities. By now, the Central Statistical Office estimates that there are DKK 3–4 billion to be saved in fewer and larger municipalities. The Progress Party will therefore have carried out an investigation which will produce concrete but, of course, non-binding proposals for community mergers in order to launch a debate on the Norwegian municipal structure. At the same time, it must pay for the respective municipalities to join together. That is why we propose to investigate a scheme in which municipalities that join together voluntarily are to be rewarded with partial government debt cancellation. I think this is something that all parties are earned in the long term. Another major challenge in public activities is that public productivity does not have the power to follow in the same way as in the private sector in terms of productivity growth. Therefore, as mentioned above, we need to establish competition as a principle for all publicly funded service production. We need a more appropriate and rational governance structure, a better income system, a rights-based welfare system and increased local autonomy. All of this has been covered up by the proposals of the Progress Party. Because there are system changes that are required, not just more money. We therefore distance ourselves from the race to allocate as much money as possible to the local government sector. We believe this funding race, for which especially the Center Party and the SV are exponents, both pathetic, it's extremely little constructive, and it's almost a parody of the will to modernise and renew the public sector. In real economic terms, Norwegian municipalities have never had more money at their disposal than what the Government and the Advance Party are now adding for 2003. It's actually increased by over NOK 3 billion. This increased economic framework, therefore, comes at the top of perhaps the most ambitious effort of the time to initiate the transformation, efficiency and modernisation of the municipal sector through increased use of competition and the market. If we want to do the best on behalf of the welfare community, we need to improve the ability of municipalities to be the most important implementing actor in the welfare state. But then we all have to be willing to turn all of the rocks that exist to find new ways to solve these problems. Some are sadly still sadly stuck in old tracks. Local authorities must also be given increased opportunities to make the most of their own local needs. Among other things, municipalities should have an increased interest in facilitating business start-ups by reintroducing corporate taxes. We need to take a promise to facilitate increased opportunities for more local creativity and a more vibrant and committed democracy on the local level, by introducing, among other things. free local tax law. Speaking of which, it has long been the subject of complaint — from almost all the way back to 1837, when we received the Presidency law in Norway and Norway was divided into municipalities for the first time. I would also like to mention that the first Norwegian state budget ever adopted was in 1815. It was actually less than what the municipal budget is in my small municipality of residence, Fromand, today, even when we convert to today's monetary value, as far as I have been able to calculate it at least. And 100 years ago Norway was Europe's second poorest country. Today we are the richest country in the world. And this tells us a little about the adventurous economic development that has taken place in Norway in the last 100–200 years. However, even worse than ever, there is a complaint about the weak local economy and the poor state of the public welfare system – health cows, schools in decline, unworthy care for the elderly, poor roads, yes, there have been day-to-day incidents to hear about this. This is most paradoxical, and you can wonder how this can happen in the world's richest country. There is now too much that has begun to crunch in the large Norwegian public sector, although there is therefore a lot of resources available. We therefore need a new policy for public activities, based on a different funding system and a different rights system for citizens, an offensive competition policy, a more rational local government structure and a more independent local democracy. Had all this been done a long time ago, today we would have had a much more well-tried public sector, to the delight of both taxpayers and users, and we could have avoided many of the problems that are now raging up more and more. But fortunately, we are now slowly, but surely in the process of moving forward in the right direction in this area. And we now see clear outlines of a new public sector policy, based on market exposure and competition, more personal freedom of choice, regulatory simplification and increased local autonomy. The Progress Party is therefore optimistic on behalf of the announced policy that we believe points in the right direction, but of course we want the positive statements to be made as quickly as possible through real policy action. Here we will closely follow developments in the future. We will demand action and determination from the Government, without too much sommel. Finally, I would like to point out that the main points of view of the Advance Party are clearly visible by promoting a total of 17 individual proposals in the vote. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e630	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has drawn up the suggestions he made well for. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e636	After such an article, you should have had an hour to reply. However, I only have one minute, so I'll take the most important thing. That the Progress Party believes that the municipalities have enough money is nothing new. We've heard that before. But the Progress Party is not concerned about whether old mother in the nursing home does not get a single air trip because the caregivers do not have time for it; they must be even more effective. But what may most astound the Workers' Party is that the Progress Party does not get any success when they enter into negotiations with the government parties. With regard to the system for resource-intensive users, the very weakest of us, the Party of Advancement has, knowingly, claimed that this matter is very important, and demanded that we now have to get a deal on it, year after year. But when they come into negotiations, nothing happens. Then I would like to ask: has the Advancement Party turned the case around? Does the Progress Party now feel that today’s system is good enough anyway? In some other way, we can't interpret what's now happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e647	The Labour Party says that the Progress Party no longer supports this proposal. It's nonsense! However, with regard to the allocation to particularly resource-intensive users in the municipalities, we – together with the Right and Christian People's Party – vote for the III proposal to increase the allocation to this group by 50 million. kr within the discretionary framework. In 2004, a solid funding mechanism for this will be put in place, as we are included in a majority proposal. But we want to wait for a round of consultations on the alternatives of this working group, to make sure that we get the very best arrangement. Therefore, we wait a little and do not implement this in 2003, but, as I said, in 2004. In addition, we are promoting our own proposal for our own top-level funding scheme for particularly resource-intensive users. I will now have asked to hear that we have turned this case around. With this I hope to have refuted this claim emphatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e656	The President would say that the word 'customs' is not a particularly good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e659	The party of progress is neither able to convince them that they are on their promises with regard to the disabled, nor to refute the great failure of their elders. The Progress Party has been jointly responsible for most budgets in recent years. They're involved in describing the misery, that old people don't get enough help and care; they're employees. They describe the misery. They're in charge. They are responsible for the community structure, which will now mean that many old people do not get the help they need. And then they stand here on the pulpit and suggest almost quick washing of old nurturing and fast-food – exposed to competition! It's the old ones who get dizzy. The Progress Party has its own financing arrangements on which they turf and turf. Meanwhile, the old and disabled have to wait. Would it not have been best if the Progress Party had acknowledged that these were municipal tasks, and let the old and disabled go ahead of their own funding system?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e668	The party of progress is proud of its senior efforts. We have been the largest party in the world for a long time to make proposals in order to strengthen the very conditions of care and health in the municipal sector. We have also proposed this time that in 2004 there will be an increase of NOK 300000 in grants to build new hospitals. Moreover, I would like to point out that in the cooperation agreement, we have increased the framework for hospitalisation sites by 3,000 in addition to the proposal for 2,000, which originally came from the Government. As far as competition is concerned, we will have a funding system that is independent of whether there is a good or a bad economy in the respective municipality. It's hitting this system today. It just hits the offer of many old ones. The state is going to finance, and then we're going to have a system based on objective criteria, so that everyone gets help. We want legal rights for those under care in the municipalities to ensure that they are adequately and qualitatively good help.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e675	First, I would like to say that the local economy has been better in terms of constructive cooperation between the Progress Party and the Government Party. But otherwise, we disagree with many things. I've wondered what the Progress Party means when they say on the one hand that they want to make the municipalities less dependent on the state, which is what the Christian People's Party believes is good, democratic and future-oriented, while on the other hand they want to introduce a piece of price finance, which is a state-owned representation of each krone municipalities get from the state. Where are municipal self-government and local priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e682	To the question of whether the piece financing will narrow down the local self-government, I will answer no. It is, therefore, that a State price system is only a financial guarantee to ensure revenue for the activities to be carried out by municipal politicians. And if there's something they're missing today, it's money. We must remember that it is the basic needs of users that need to be ensured first, not primarily the ability of politicians to manage money. Therefore, a state funding system, which we want, will result in vulnerable groups not being affected, as I said before, by good or bad local economy. That's the way it is today, unfortunately. That's why we want a new system here, and I can't see that there's any contradiction between it and local self-determination. I think the system will secure the users, the customers and the patients. These are the people we want to help primarily, and it's also going to be the case if local self-government does not get to say more in this area when it comes to prioritizing money for the disadvantaged groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e687	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e690	Municipal economy is about having a modern welfare state with a free and forward-looking school that is so good and so diverse that everyone wants to have their kids there, which provides care and care so older, sick and disabled have the opportunity to get up when they want, go on dowsing when they want, shower when they feel they are on time, and with kindergartens that are safe and that people can afford to use. People want more and better services, not fewer and more expensive. Therefore, SV believes that the local economy needs to be strengthened. The regime of the Government and the Advance Party will give us a worse school, fewer older people will get good care, and we will get higher self-esteem and more privatisation. SV cannot accept that old people should lie without care and supervision, or that children should not be able to adapt to training and to get out of the classroom to learn about business, experience culture and nature, and visit, for example. an old-age home. To improve the level of knowledge and quality of public schools, the local economy needs to be strengthened. SV will strengthen the local economy by DKK 8 billion in 2003. We can afford that, because we don't spend money on tax bills for the richest and expensive and faulty waste projects in the defense. We don't spend more money than the government does, but we use it differently. The Government and the Advance Party are at least honest. They admit that it gets cut, and that it gets worse. If you're going to say it a little humorous, we might conclude that you think the school is too expensive and good, that the old and the sick have it too good, but that the millionaires suffer and have to get first! Instead of using the opportunity a rich country has to strengthen school, which is the most important thing we can do, they choose a strategy that makes students who need adapted training not get it. Now we go back to the school that I went to in the 1960s – one teacher, one class. Those who need special education get it – ‘that’s it’. This is the school with which the Right Harassed in the election campaign and called the Unity and Equality School, where all students are going to learn the exact same thing at the same time because there is no money for anything else. This is a bad school, and this is a school that SV doesn't want us to have at all. I was at a public meeting in Fredrikstad this week, and there are many engaged parents. They say it this way, and I think they're quite right: now we can choose if we want to teach our kids to read and write, if they're going to be happy to go to school and want to learn something more – or we can do the opposite. It's not that hard to figure out what's tricked. Actually, we have that choice. We're a rich country, and most of us are getting richer and richer. But that doesn't apply to everyone. This community proposition does nothing to correct those differences; on the contrary, they increase. There are poor children in Norway. For them, the community economy is important, both because they need the school to be so good that it can give them what they can't afford to be at home, and that social assistance, for example. may be such that they can afford to be part of something else as well, for example: participate in leisure activities, go to music or music schools. There won't be one more penny for that in the municipal structure we have here now. On the contrary, some of us have received tax credits in the thousands of dollars class. I can't help but realize that I have needed it. The elderly and the sick are completely attuned to the local economy. The Elder Plan has provided many fine dwellings, but little decent care inside the dwellings. Someone has to do that job. We need more help nurses, more carers and nurses, and now many stop because pay and employment are poor, and people get sick. So it's at the end of the time when Florence Nightingale dominated these professions. Now you have to have a decent salary. SV will not fail the old, as the Progress Party does. They're busy building a lot of hospitals, while they're cutting into the local economy, so there's less money to pay to those who're going to work there and take care of the old ones. And then I can say a little bit about the paycheck. It must be in such a way that the State covers the economics of what they negotiate, for example. in the case of the establishment of a teacher. Municipalities have to have the same framework for their wage settlement as the state received. It's not like that today. Now the municipalities are left and have to cut off the services to afford to hire enough people to care for old people or to have enough teachers in school. Then to the settlement of the hospitals: I said a little about it in my reply to the Workers' Party. It's a state robbery that's happening now. The state is allowed to recover the deficit of NOK 1.7 billion in the county municipalities, and the county municipalities are therefore required to operate secondary schools. Perhaps one of the most important things for business in the future is that higher education schools become good and diverse, have modern equipment and can offer a variety of courses, so that students can get the training they need and that they want to take. Now it's not going to be like that, because there's a long-term debt that's going to be allowed to stay there. In my home country, they need to raise loans to modernise high school, make them more efficient and in line with what business needs. But they're not allowed to do that, because now they're going to be sitting there with this long-term debt – not just for this hospital settlement, but they're going to get it for the pension costs as well. This is going to be a bad high school, and for SV as a serious school party, it's a matter of course that the state should settle its bills afterwards and not send them around the country and beach to high school students. That the Progress Party does this, is not so strange, that the Right does it, is shocking, they were supposed to be a school party, and that the Workers' Party has also run from these promises, I must say SV is very disappointed about it. The government and the Advance Party have profiled themselves in tax laws, and they have, that job they have fulfilled. But there are some taxes that are increasing in this country, and that's the excesses. They're increasing quite dramatically. SV has suggested that we make a plan to get the props down. There shall be no charge and tax on disability or chronic illness. This should be a heart issue for the Advancement Party, but neither here have they been able to add a wide-faced saying and hit a crown, either in the revised or in this municipal settlement. In fact, there are also hundreds of young people in old homes in Norway. The size has promised that this will be the end of 2005. Now the Government and the Advance Party will remove the grant to move them out. And to make it look a little bit better, you're going to make 30 million dollars. kr of the discretionary pot for the purpose. I believe that neither the Advance Party nor the Government may have heard what the disabled people's organisations say: The offers are too bad now! So first of all, you have to cut off bad offers, so you have to label a little bit of what's left, and then you have to think that it's going to be a lot better. At the speed we have today, the young people who are being enrolled in a nursing home today and who may be 20 years old are at risk of being both 40 and 50 years old before they get out of there. If this grant has not worked well enough, how in the world can it work better by removing the money altogether? It's totally incomprehensible. I'll try to give you a picture to describe what this looks like. Let me say it so that I stand outside a public toilet and have to terrible on do. I have $20, and that's what it costs. Then Municipal Minister Erna Solberg comes by at the speed of speed, hides in me so five dollars spread out of my hand, rolls off the farm and disappears. Then comes Per Sandberg, the saving angel, past, picks up again two of them, and says that now he's done an innmari good job helping me. But I have to ask, am I even coming to do? I still need the three kroner that were gone in the big shovel. – That's what this is going on. It doesn't help to earmark or to figure out two to three dollars when you need it, really is five. SV is based on what they have said and promised a state top funding for particularly resource-intensive users, where the Progress Party has now run from what they have agreed with SV for several years. SV wants a metropolitan grant on the principle that all municipalities that have large expenditure will have them covered by the same system, and we want an investigation that makes it possible, for example, to include them. The SFO grant in the income system needs to be reviewed in order to take account of these costs for children and young people. I will be allowed to address the proposals to which SV is the proposer or co-sponsor, which have not already been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e728	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestions she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e733	I would like to help the representative, Karin Andersen, with the last heads, so she got to do! At least in the article to Karin Andersen, I have noticed her great concern for the municipal sector and the welfare services that the municipalities are going to offer. I noticed that she said that they proposed an increase in growth in the municipal sector of between 8 and 8.5 billion kroner. The question is, whether Karin Andersen says they have a funding on this, how realistic is this and what kind of budgetary framework is SV going to do? We notice that SV does not go off the road to suggest more money for almost all good purposes. The Labour Party will also increase the framework for the municipal sector, but within a somewhat more realistic framework. In addition, we have a clear plan to avoid the exceptional pension costs that are now the preference for the local government sector, both in the revised and in the setting here today. Why is SV not included in this setup?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e743	I am a little surprised that the representative Rudihagen, who is on the Financial Committee, has not discovered in, for example. The last revised national budget, which we will deal with tomorrow, actually spends a little less money than the Government. Otherwise, we spend just as much money in our arrangements as the Workers' Party does. A few years in the last period, we've even used less. We distribute differently. It's actually possible, and that's what politics is about. For SV, therefore, a good community economy, a good school and good care for the elderly are more important than for example. part of the projects that the Workers' Party has prioritised in relation to the Defence. In the case of pensions, SV is co-sponsored on all the proposals that are aimed at finding out if it is possible to obtain some schemes for the cost of pensions that can relieve pressure. I have to say that I think the Workers' Party must also look in the eyes that we are getting more old, and that this is an increase in the costs that we have to have a realistic relationship with and be willing to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e750	After Karin Andersen's little fairy tale, it might be tempting to start by saying that one should hear a lot before hearing these. But enough about it. After working with SV for several years in local politics, I am used to hearing that the party has money for all good purposes. Karin Andersen's contributions to today's debate are no different. Not surprisingly, the party is raising the municipal sector's framework by DKK 8 billion – but the cuts and consequences are coming later. I think it is very interesting to record that SV in its comments they say they want to compensate the local government for compensation of compensation of employees in line with the wage settlement negotiated in the country. Does SV really believe that municipalities should have freedom within their financial framework, yet not take responsibility for their own wage development, and does SV believe that the State should set up every time the local authority's own organisation has imposed an expensive wage settlement on the local government sector? Isn't freedom related to responsibility? It could be interesting to hear what SV thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e759	I continue to record that grossing-up representatives obviously do not sit in budgets and have seen that we have the same balance sheet as others. But we're completely honest about what we're prioritizing, and what we're prioritizing down. We don't spend more money than the Right, so I think the Right can stop saying it now, because that's not true. So we have money for good purposes, but not for what we think is bad and that Right supports. This applies to tax reliefs to the richest, tax exemptions on dividends and some wasted projects in the Defence. In terms of wage settlement, in the name of honesty, it must be that the state is involved and pays the wage settlements that the state is selling, and then we believe that the local government sector needs the same framework for its wage settlement as the state has. This year, the State has negotiated the framework under which they operate, but demands that the local government sector abide by it. This means that the local government sector should be able to compete less poorly for good pay and employment for its employees. That'll be the worse services of!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e768	After hearing the comments from the representative Karin Andersen of SV, there is one thing that strikes me, and it is that this party should really be extremely pleased, because it is such that Norwegian municipalities – until at least today – have been largely driven by the monopoly principles that SV like so much. But it doesn't work anyway. And so a lot of money is the only solution SV is able to see, and they're going to disappoint 8-8.5 billion kroner, and so they're going to be the best in the class. This money is usually collected through more taxes from the wealthiest, as they say. I wonder if there are so many kingdoms in this country that they will be able to pay SV's bill at last! But is it that SV does not see any potential for efficiency in the Norwegian municipal sector? Do they really have no other solutions than spending more money? After all, it is a prerequisite for the welfare society that we have a competitive, value-creating private sector and that it is not taxed in its entirety. Doesn't one see the context here, that the public sector depends on a value-creating private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e775	If you're really concerned with value creation and business, you have to be very hard on the school being the best in the world, and you have to have a research and education policy that's full on the level of other countries, and modern. We do not have that today, it does not have the Progress Party. SV wants to have it, and that is absolutely the best we can do for both Norway as a country, for individuals, for business and not least for districts. Then SV believes that there is room for efficiency in the municipalities – we have said that. We also believe that it is great if some municipalities want to merge. We're not negative to it at all -- it says it right here. But we're against breaking up public businesses in little pieces that are going to compete with each other. We believe much more in cooperation, and you have to see the service as a whole, because that's what users need. They do not need to be dragged between units to compete with each other, but they need a coherent and coherent approach to their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e783	Securing a good and free school, a safe follow-up of the disabled, a worthy care for the elderly, a safe breeding environment, childcare facilities, cultural schools and voluntary organisations – it is municipal economy. It is about money for pay for teachers and nurses, personal assistants and support contacts. It's about nutrition funds to develop work where people live. It is about county municipalities having money for further education, culture, public transport, road and business development. For the Centre Party, it is a value choice to ensure that citizens have good common welfare arrangements. It was a strong experience to follow the silent train of spokesmen who went through the streets of Oslo to hand over a bulwark to the mayor. Ninety minded spokesmen, most of them from the Center Party, found it necessary to do what they had not done before, go on trains to ask for the work to continue for good welfare services to their inhabitants. It's bad when a student loses his special arrangement. It's hard when a fireball goes down. It gets followed when the music ball in a municipality has to reduce its supply. It's hopeless when a hospital is empty. 2002 is a very special year. Half of the municipalities in this country warned before the government announced the revision of the national budget and the municipal bill that they had seen enough to cut in school, care and culture. After these documents have been submitted to Stortinget, many more municipalities see that they do not get expenses and revenues to go together. Spokespersons of different batch colours gather in plug-in and meeting. Now it's not just about some downsizing here and there – now it's about the very basic security of many communities! Parents make decisions about school money in Nittedal. At the Basin of Oslo, they discuss private schools to secure textbooks and other material. KS is calling for extraordinary national government. Fat local government adopts civil disobedience. The spokesman in Engerdal is on his own. There are many more examples. The last, and also one of the strongest, is a municipal minister who is in Tromsø and tells us that if the municipality is investing in culture, it is going to go beyond the municipal economy, then it becomes weak. The central party will claim that it can actually cost a lot more, meaning a much worse local economy to stay out of it. For the Centre Party, selecting strengthening of common costs is a value choice rather than a tax option. The main features of the Central Party configuration are as follows: Firstly, the extraordinary pension and wage costs must be covered. According to KS, this concerns pension and salary expenditure of DKK 5.9 billion. We think the state should settle down. The option for municipalities is to cut service provision to find the necessary resources. We produce an own Document No. Eight proposals in the fall when it was clear that there were extra costs here. We took the initiative against all the parties now in our day to get a joint handling if possible. We didn't get along with it, but we're happy to say that there's a new and increasing willingness to look for solutions that can help in a very difficult situation. There are also several articles in this room today. Higher pension costs are a problem for municipalities both in the short and long term. The specific high pension costs for 2002 are addressed in the revised national budget, and I refer to the Central Party’s comments and suggestions to cover up to DKK 2.3 billion in the premium and DKK 1.9 billion in a buffer to take future fluctuations. Let me also stress the following: Our claim is that covering these extraordinary costs will not create pressure in the economy. They do not lead to an increase in activity beyond what the Government adds. One of the main objectives of the Petroleum Fund is to secure future pension obligations, which, in the opinion of the Centre Party, makes it possible to withdraw money from the Oil Fund for this purpose. The consequences of not resolving these problems are large and unintentionally cut off in the public service provision. And then it's kind of unclear what number you're going to add to. We are surprised that the government is at a different level to the expected financial return than the life companies are operating with. The government believes that the construction of buffer capital in life companies can be done over several years. This will mitigate the problem for municipalities, but unfortunately it is far from enough to avoid cutting service provision. When the bills from the life companies become known beyond the fall, this theme will re-roll with full weight. The drama is already known. I am sorry that the government has just done well to push this whole case complex. In the longer term, it is necessary to secure a local economy that enables municipalities to manage their pension expenditure. This requires an increase in transfers to municipalities for the next year of NOK 2.3 billion. Secondly, the creation of the economic imbalance that we are now seeing. Over several years, there has been an economic imbalance because the Stortinget has undertaken major new reforms without full funding. We want a three-year plan to create the imbalance, and my debts must be one of several measures. $12 billion in debt will make it easy to operate with $1.5 billion. We are very pleased that both the Labour Party and the SV support this proposal, but the more surprising it is that the Christian People's Party does not think such a plan is necessary. The party proposing $2 billion as a first provision for this plan. Thirdly, the majority must support a worthy end to the elderly. A number of municipalities are in serious difficulty because they are not represented by the Government's plans. The municipalities have set up plans for 7,300 units in consultation with government agencies, county councillors, county councillors and the House Bank. We want all of these to be included in the phase-out, and we propose an extra 2,000 in 2003. For some municipalities it is now said that care homes, for others it is the sick home places. Some have postponed the upgrading of older building masses at the end. Where are the municipalities going to reduce if they have to pay the rest of the old bet themselves? We are deeply concerned that it is the school, our children, the future itself that must bear it. Fourthly, specific resource-required users. The party of progress had a unique occasion there. Those who have spoken for so long and so much about top finance fail when it is due, both to it and to the preservation of the benefits of the relocation of young people with disabilities from old age institutions. We note that our proposal from last year is about 80 pst. reimbursement of costs in excess of NOK 600 000, a proposal which is also supported by the Christian People's Party at that time. Self basic security is at stake this year. We have a government that is busy with several private solutions. It looks like it's deliberately tormenting the municipalities to force it. Trust in us elected people is also at stake. Many have our voice in election struggles and on the rise with promises of better and more services in the municipalities. Now the government of the municipalities owes it when the cut comes. Next year, it's local. Who wants to set the option to just manage shutdowns? Self-democracy can be at stake unless the Stortinget now takes responsibility and systolic responsibility for providing the most necessary resources to the local government sector. There's more money this is about. Right went to a better school choice. So now the government is going to hand out an additional $31 billion in treasure chests to the richest, while the public school is going to crumble. Fifthly, own entry for inter-municipal cooperation as an alternative to municipal convergence. Today, a report from the Statistical Central Bureau, which says that the smallest municipalities can save $3 billion by merging, is announced. That's old news. That's the same calculation as we saw in the Christiansen selection's setting from 10 years back. But there were costs of this, and they haven't come out so clearly in this round: depopulation of some communities and centralization in others. The centre party will have a much stronger focus on inter-municipal cooperation, and proposes its own post on the state budget for it. We believe that decentralisation and popular rule are a necessary foundation for a positive development in society. There is good reason to be concerned about a trend towards more and more centralisation. When power is moved from local to central level, from popular government to bureaucracy, and from social support to market thinking, this creates poor solutions and popular disapproval. We want a turnaround, both in economic policy and in how power is to be distributed in society. We are very surprised that the Government believes the financial problems in the local government sector are their own responsibility. This is a regular disclaimer of responsibility for the situation we're facing. There is a great deal of government that, through legislation and major government reforms, has given strong leadership to the local government sector. By means of a lack of funding, municipalities are heavily indebted, and labour with high operating costs. State Secretary Bergesen of the Ministry of Education and Research has the recipe for the serious situation that has now arisen in Kommune-Noreg: it's just throwing the vocabulary, 'and everything gets so much better'. Right-wing local political spokesman Hans Kristian Hogsnes also gives a clear message: The spokesmen who cannot accept the municipal scheme from the Government have probably been in for too long! Both of these two have until recently held central positions in Kommune-Noreg. Right has chosen a special strategy to remove the responsibilities that they themselves have. They're in debt to spokesmen and other local folklorists. It's a simple strategy. Now big business and government must take the responsibility we have for the developments we are now seeing. Finally, I would like to highlight the suggestions made by the Central Party in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e838	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has drawn up the proposals to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e843	The Centre Party and the Working Party stand together a lot in this setting. However, the Workers' Party proposes a growth that is roughly in line with that of the Workers' Party in the government position, with DKK 1.75 billion in increased transfers for free income. No one shall question the representative of Kleppa's desire to strengthen the municipal sector. Nevertheless, it was likely that the growth in the local economy of Bondevik I was clearly lower than we have seen in 2001 and 2002. E.g. In spring 1999, a real growth of DKK 2.5 billion, including the hospital sector, was taken into account in the Community economicproposition presented. Is it realistic, then, when the Central Party is now proposing a growth in the local economy of about 8 billion dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e852	It is a measure of the Centre Party's consistency between tasks and revenues. The most important contribution in this way was our initiative to put in place a consultation system, which I am very pleased about, between the KS and the government, and which the Labour Party carried on. For 1999, we must have in mind the horrendous year of 1998, with imbalances in all kinds of economics, whether we are talking nationally or internationally. Nevertheless, after strong efforts by the Centre Party, Bondevik I was able to strengthen the municipal economy at that time. What's going on this year? It is about DKK 5.9 billion in increased pension and wage costs, which municipalities either have to cover or alternatively have to cover by cutting costs. We actually want to protect the elderly and the disabled. We want to protect a good and free school. Difor is our choice: More to the municipalities than to the tax havens. [[The President clubs.]] And I'm surprised by the Working Party's lack of... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e861	Then it's the next replicator. The President wants to remember time. In a very busy day, there's no time for so many exceedances.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e865	I want to address the inconsistency that Karl Eirik Schjødt-Pedersen also pointed out. For the centre party, this is ‘business as usual’ in the opposition. Billions of hail. When the Senterpartiet was in government, from 1997 to 2000, and with the municipal minister – nothing less – it was both in 1998 and 1999 a negative real growth in the free income of municipalities of 0.5 and 0.4 pst, respectively. When this cooperative government adds up to a positive real growth of 0.5 pst, it's too bad for the Center Party. Does the Center Party agree that it is better with a positive real growth than a negative real growth, to which they themselves added up? Maybe the Center Party is a little too happy to yell at the wolf!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e880	Let me just say first of all in relation to the previous line that both the Labour Party and the Center Party have used very strong words in connection with the Government's arrangement. And it's in that context that it surprises me that the Workers' Party thinks they have room for everything that they think should enter this two-and-a-half billion that they propose extra. So my answer to Peter Gitmark is: Yes, of course it's better with a positive real growth. But I have to ask the question back: is it really such that both 2.3 billion dollars in additional pension expenditure in 2003 and more to the elderly, a better provision for the disabled and a good and free school will be covered within what the Government is now proposing? Neither do their own or the rest of the vocabulary see what Right now thinks is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e887	I have noticed that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Center Party said – and repeated – that the Progress Party will not be involved in the scheme of outsourcing young people with disabilities and a top funding for particularly resource-intensive users. I don't accept to be blamed for this. With regard to the release of young people with disabilities, we safeguard the interests of this group by promoting a clear proposal where we earmark 30 million. kr through the discretionary means. It was supposed to ensure that this group. And in terms of the top-level funding scheme for particularly resource-intensive users in municipalities, we are going in to increase the funding for this group by 50 million. kr, and put us together with the Right and Christian People's Party to make sure that this actually happens. In this case, we have clear lines. We also promote our own proposal that the State should cover more than €600 000 for particularly resource-intensive users in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e896	I understand that Torbjørn Andersen needs to wave his arms in this matter. He's got a bad thing. The ratio is simply the following: There would be a majority today for a top funding from 2003 if the Progress Party had stood by what they had done before. When it comes to the removal of young people from an old age institution, there is a special supplement introduced under Bondevik I, which I followed carefully, and which means that the municipalities that move out of a disability from an old age institution receive 1 million. kr to accommodate around the individual. It's a far-reaching system. It's a system that municipalities can take care of. They know they get the money. So in this case, according to Torbjørn Andersen and the proposal of the Progress Party, they are left to the discretion of the County Council. And they're not exactly the same scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e905	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e908	The situation in many municipalities is difficult. We've got a lot of evidence of that in our day, and many of us also have sufficient experience and knowledge to judge the problems facing many local politicians. On the other hand, we should demand from local politicians that they also have a certain understanding of the macro-economic and political issues. «People don't live in macros», Kristin Halvorsen recently wrote in Today's Business. This way, an opposition politician can draw a distinction between the big picture and what people experience in everyday life, and play out that people don't see the context. But such a context is there, of course. It's not that hard to explain either, for anyone who wants to. For the Left, keeping the economy in order is an overarching policy objective. It seems to everyone, not least the poorest, whether they're individuals, municipalities, or postponing businesses. Nothing is as crazy for these as an unspoiled growth that pushes prices and interest in the weather. It has always been the opposition party's privilege to ignore this and play on the fact that many voters cannot see the context. I think it is particularly sad that the Central Party has said goodbye to responsible policy. When Restad is gone, the others will dance on the table! The fact that the centre party is unable to prioritise within the responsible framework in which the party has previously agreed, but must break the rule of action in order to get its overcrowded, shows how difficult the situation is. But, of course, it cannot be resolved in this way. In the same way as in the district debate, the Center Party has chosen to place itself on the sidebar. I'm surprised and I think it's sad that the Center Party, which we worked with in a government that just led a tight policy to bring down the interest rate, let all the inhibitions go and use the forces to outsource a government that is leading a lot of the same policy. Today's proposal is not very different from the one that the center government could deliver. Over the last few years, the annual real growth in the local economy, regardless of government, has a doctor of between 1 and 2 p.p., as it will be for the next year. What has been said by the Government and in the agreement between the Government Party and the Progress Party on pension expenditure and tax revenue makes the sector collect well within the tight framework that is there. The fight against interest rate rises and the many leaders that have already been placed on the State budget for 2003 mean that there are limits to growth for a sector as large as municipalities and county municipalities are. Within a responsible framework, the Government prioritises the municipalities. It goes through the Sem statement, and it goes through the proposition we are dealing with today. No current government option would have brought your municipalities a dollar more to the current date. It is said to see how much remains of the Workers' Party's modest overburden here today, when the state budget is to be settled to the fall, with all the other promises made by the Workers' Party. The myth that this government prioritises tax relief rather than welfare is likely to be promoted further, but it is true that the majority of tax reliefs agreed on this day are in line with the Labour Party and the Center Party. An anti-commercial measure to double-tax dividends with a highly dubious proceeds is the one real proposal on which the opposition continues to attach this rhetoric. We all know the good foundation the Labour Party gave against this when they were responsible and the opposite view. The left would have liked to have seen that there was room for a bigger lift for the municipalities, but that's not the situation today. Therefore, we must be honest and not throw people blue in the eye. Local authorities and citizens are not exposed to a policy that endangers the social economy. Within the realistic framework, municipalities have to find their own solutions, and I believe that the key to a better local economy and better local self-government is more freedom for municipalities. The faith to control in detail from Stortinget, the decision to designate with detailed rules to be checked then leads to poor resource use. The fear that local authorities may choose differently is great among individuals in this room, but it is actually what local self-government should be about. Of course, there must also be incentives for better solutions, more cooperation, better efficiency, etc. More money is not the only answer to the challenges, although it would have been easier for those who are local people. But they also have to see that the Norwegian economy has to hang together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e945	The coastal party will improve the local authority's right to have its own income, so that each municipality has the best motivation to provide a stable income base. At the same time, we will ensure that municipalities with limited income opportunities are not forced to join neighbouring municipalities. The Coastal Party will ensure that the State appropriations for the municipal sector are proportionate to the tasks entrusted to the municipalities. We therefore support the proposal of the Centre for the growth of total revenue in the municipal sector to be DKK 7.6 billion to 8.1 billion for 2003. In this way, we will ensure that the municipalities are not forced to introduce or increase the property tax due to government cuts. The member of the Central Party of the Municipal Committee expresses the opinion that a freer municipal taxpayer should be an alternative to today's municipal property tax on works and use. This is good, but what about the property tax on the dwelling? Won't the Senter Party liquidate this tax? Together with SV, the Senterpartiet promotes proposals for the investigation of freer municipal taxpayers as an alternative to today's municipal property tax. Does this proposal also include taxes on property for housing? Economic security for homes is an important objective of the Coastal Party's policy. Therefore, the Coastal Party is against property taxes on housing. SV will have a tightening of the property tax by proposing that it be printable equally for the entire municipality. We just have to ask ourselves, is SV for or against property taxes on housing? In the opinion of the Coastal Party, the Bondevik I government made a big loss when the company tax transferred to the State. We have therefore registered with satisfaction that the municipal councillor says that she wants to do the corporate tax again. The question is only when her word will be followed up with action by the Government. The coastal party makes its own proposal that the company tax should be paid in municipal terms and that it should be due to the municipality(ies) in which the production takes place, irrespective of where the company’s head office is located. In this way, the funds can be reduced to their place of residence, and municipalities are economically motivated to pursue an active industrial policy. In the case of local fisheries management, the Coastal Party has agreed with the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre’s Party that the merger of fishing director’s fishing offices has gone too far towards centralisation. The service should be close to professionals, both for the purpose of providing services and for the ability of the authorities to gain access to the industry. Local self-government may be particularly important in planning and land-use matters. Local needs are best known in the neighbourhood, and local communities are the best aware of the consequences of such planning and land decisions. In the larger cities, the distance between politicians and the population is great. This is why urban selections have been set up to better assess local needs. The State should provide the legal best possible conditions for the decentralisation of building council decisions to the Urban Committees, so that the local population can gradually gain better control over its own neighbourhood. In Oslo, city councils often fight in vain against obscene office expansion projects that create traffic pressure and pressure on housing prices and the local environment. In order to give the city councils the necessary legitimacy, they should be chosen by direct elections. In 2001, the municipalities were charged significant extras from the Municipal Landspensionskasse (KLP) because of the reduction/loss of equity of the municipality's pension insurance company, KLP. The municipalities that had been tricked and predictable and had changed to private pension insurance companies by the end of 2000 saved significant costs in 2001. According to KS, pension expenditure of the local government sector will increase by DKK 5.7 billion this year. As you know, the municipalities are the owners of KLP and thus the guarantor of equity, but in the private companies it is the private owners who are responsible for equity. I hereby claim that responsibility for equity is significantly greater in the private sector than in the CLP. Of course, the municipalities are free to leave the KLP every year, while private companies can be changed whenever they wish. With this background, it would be interesting to get an assessment from the Minister of Local Affairs on what measures the Government is assessing. If appropriate, will the State provide the municipalities with the necessary capital to cover the costs of extrapolation to strengthen the equity of the KLP? Or will it be considered to change the legislation so that municipalities are freer in the choice of pension insurance company, so that they can find the most profitable alternative at any time? I am asking for an assessment of these questions from the Minister of State because the Coastal Party does not, in experience, get involved in the change of line with the Minister. I'm addressing proposal No. 53 which the Coastal Party has advanced in this case with regard to company tax. I would ask that this proposal be voted on before proposal No. 35, from the Progress Party, so that I can subsidize proposal No. Thirty-five.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e979	The representative Swensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e982	Most of our common well-being is created in the municipalities. The municipalities are struggling with the tight economy. There is a misunderstanding between what it costs to deliver the services and the money at your disposal. This was an important reason why the Labour Party government increased the transfer to the municipalities. In the 2002 budget, growth in relation to spring levels was up to DKK 3.5 billion, of which DKK 1.7 billion was in free income. The situation in the municipalities is now even more difficult than it was in the last harvest. In addition to increasing local government expenditure, inter alia: Because the population is increasing and we are getting older, municipalities are struggling with extraordinary expenditure on pensions. I understand, therefore, that rapporteurs around the country were shocked when the government put forward a scheme for next year, where they did not increase growth in relation to this year, but on the contrary, around DKK 1 billion suggested lower growth from this year to the next year than the Labour Party government had carried out from last year to this year. The rapporteur, Mr Eigersund, said: «This proposal for community planning is one of the most dramatic things I've experienced in the 15 years I've been a local politician. It's honest Right-wing policy, but it should be fatal KrF policy." Or as the Christian People's Party's rapporteur in Evje and Hornnes, Bjørn Ropstad, says: ‘It is not good for the municipalities to be trampled on by a KrF policy’. The government recognizes that that's what's going on. Minister of State Erna Solberg said when she presented the scheme, that it ‘for some municipalities a reduction in the provision of welfare services’. In Dagbladet on 13 June, the Prime Minister fully supported the municipal minister and took political responsibility for the fact that the municipalities now have to cut the welfare offer, i.e. the setting-up of kindergartens, the setting-up of school classes, the closure of nursing homes. When right-wing rapporteur Margaritha Rambøl in Rälingen says that municipal minister Solberg ‘lives in another world’, the answer is, ‘There is probably more money to save in the Rällingen too.’ The government proposes that children’s gardens, schools and hospitals should be cut in order to accommodate lower taxes and taxes. In time, the Government produces as if this were the result of budgets already adopted. Of course, this could have been avoided by the Government, but they chose the last harvest to increase the tax relief beyond the record relief of NOK 7.7 billion proposed by the Labour Party government, among others. with a lower peak tax. Besides, there are direct errors. Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss proudly promised at the Government's Budgetary Conference on Halvorsbøle that at least DKK 1 billion will be given in tax relief next year in addition to what has already been adopted. So Kjell Magne Bondevik chooses to drop school classes and nursing homes so that Per-Kristian Foss can provide additional tax relief. Then you can understand the rapporteur, Mr Oddvar Haugland, who says that ‘this is what Bondevik is now an anonymous administrator of the Right Policy’. But it is not only in the Christian People's Party that it reacts. Right- rapporteur Arve Toning in Ålesund will rather wait with tax reliefs and says he has the support of many Right-Rapporteurs to ensure that the offer to the elderly, sick and children must go ahead. The experienced Christian People's Party rapporteur Tore Johansen in Aremark says: ‘KrF should have cooperated with the Workers’ Party instead.’ Yes, then many would have looked different. But even when the Bondevik government was negotiating support for the municipality complex in Stortinget, they did not contact the Workers' Party. We have never heard anything from the government parties in relation to securing a majority for a scheme for municipalities next year. They only contacted the Progress Party, and of course they got a majority for Solberg's cut toppings. The working party wants a completely different arrangement for the municipalities. We're proposing to increase the free income by $1 billion in addition to the government's plan. That's roughly the growth that the Labour Party government itself raised from last year to this year. Of course, in addition to the growth of the free revenues, the Workers' Party will also finance, among other things. the increased bet on kindergartens to which we have added. Here we don't know what the government itself has invested in increases. We therefore provisionally assume that the total transfers to the municipalities will be increased by NOK 1.5 billion in addition to the government's arrangements. At the same time, we disagree with the Government, which unilaterally shifts responsibility for the high pension costs to the municipalities themselves and says that municipalities will reduce the supply to the population if necessary. The Workers' Party proposes that the State establish a fund or loan scheme from which municipalities can deduct money this year with high pension costs, while they pay back this year with low costs. This does not cost anything on the state budget. But that means enormously for the ability of municipalities to pay the high pension costs without having to cut the offer to the population in a completely unreasonable way. But the government says no. The government believes that this is not their responsibility, that it is not their responsibility that school classes, nursing homes and kindergartens be closed down. I understand Christian People's Party-Rapporteur Lorentz Lunde in Tysnes when he says, "I have a terrible amount of frustration in me."
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1028	In general, I would like to say that the municipal bill contains several elements. It contains the framework for the municipal economy in 2003, it contains long-term changes in the income system and the funding system, and it contains the Government’s policy for modernising the public sector, especially in relation to the municipal sector and the work to be done in that area. In general, I am very pleased with the setting that is here today. It's a setting that gives us a connection to the main features of the government, which has some changes, changes that I think are positive in themselves, and which the government will naturally follow up on the agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties. It is a strengthening, among other things, relative to resource-intensive users, and there is the preparation of some principles. I think we have something to work with on the basis of this setting. When you go in and look at the differences, one of the most striking things for one who has been on the municipal committee for four years and has been involved in this time and time again is the complete conversion of the Labour Party to its municipal policy in areas other than what is only economic. Now, the Workers' Party for new population numbers, which they have been against all along – is an important change in relation to the municipalities of growth. Now they almost don't think we're moving fast enough. But they've always been against it before. Now the Workers' Party is in favour of a top-level funding reform for resource-intensive users, despite the fact that they voted against last year, and wants us to move even faster. Now they're too big-city grants for drug and psychiatry criteria, which I've been trying to achieve for four years at the Stortinget. The working party has always been opposed to finding practical solutions to this. It's nice, but I kind of think it's a little striking that you expect something to happen very quickly – overnight – when you've actually been against the decisions, against the leaders and against everything that's gone on giving both the municipalities of growth and the cities a census. So Reidar Sandal said something that was completely wrong. He said that there was no more crown in the arrangement of the government parties and the Progress Party. So it's NOK 2–2.5 billion more for the municipal sector next year in the government's arrangement, which has been approved here. The other important part that is interesting in relation to what is now said is that the Workers' Party is constantly trying to sell a story for the moment that, in order to get room for tax relief, we have to cut the municipal economy. Then it's interesting to see the context of the Workers' Party's own policy. I have tried to explain why in 2003 we have a very tight arrangement for the local economy. That's because we have too many long-term commitments that have been adopted in the past and that we have to finance. Despite a rule of action that the Workers' Party now thinks we spend too much money on, we don't have that much room left, and we have prioritised the municipalities. But what's in the Workers' Party's arrangement every day in this room? Well, it's spending even more money on the 2003 budget, adding new commitments, and kindergartens are just one example. Thus, in the revised national budget of the Workers' Party, they represent the largest tax relief for all, to be paid in 2003. They are in favour of raising the depreciation rate on machines, which have a higher proceeds in the years to come than the so-called tax relief for the rich, a proceeds effect that is just as high as the increase in the Workers' Party's contribution to the municipal economy for next year. I really think that the Labour Party should end with its double-booking. They say something on the one hand, they sell out each piece, but the context is no longer there. It could be because they don't expect to be taken with their pants down when it's like that. It may be that the Workers' Party believes that no one can add up all the individual items when they do not fulfill everything they individually go in to fulfill, and figure out a sum for the budget for the harvest. But that is, among other things, so that they finance their budget in the revised national budget by pushing on expenditure of DKK 1 billion to the defence, which would thus have been included in the budget for the following year, following the arrangements of the Workers' Party, if the agreement with the Government parties had been credible by the Workers' Party. I expect that we will never see the extra billion in any arrangement from the Workers' Party, because we have got this through by means of the Advance Party. But it's a double bookkeeping, and I'm not going to say what I really think about it. But I think it's really going to help create a lot of electoral contempt if you don't dare be honest about what priorities you're taking. The second working party says that it is alarming with all the single examples of what rapporteurs have said about our budget for the municipal sector next year. I can go back and find quotes from the Labour Party rapporteurs on how bad it has been in their municipalities. I have said that in some municipalities there will be welfare changes and perhaps reductions next year. That's the truth. There were welfare reductions in some municipalities also in 2000, in 2001 and 2002, despite the constructions of the Workers' Party and we have been together about, because of, among other things, this. have been the conversions of the income system in order to increase the individual impact of some municipalities over only the sum of the increases. So I think it's pretty incredible that the Workers' Party, based on an increase in free income of NOK 1 billion and based on totally different signals about what they actually have within and what they have outside this municipal economy, whether the kindergartens are inside or outside, can actually go out with such big words. So to the question of pensions. It is also the case that the Government is concerned about pension developments. I would like to remind the Central Party that what KS wrote to the Municipal Committee is now used as a truth, the 5.9 billion kroner. We have tried to go through these figures, and we still believe that it is agreed that the long-term increases in pension expenditure are between 2 and 3 billion kroner. That's why we've also said that it's the long-term costs we're going to take into account in the municipal economy of each year and in the municipal accounts, and that we're going to regulate this in a regulation. That means that one part of what the Workers' Party has proposed, has been fulfilled in many ways, because we have said that we now come to the municipal law in this area. But it's a little bit difficult when KS itself says it was an illustration, and the Center Party continuously uses this illustration as if it were the truth. The truth is that we do not yet know what the costs will be, because KLP has, among other things, not printed. I find it difficult, and it should also be a problem for the Central Party, which in some way stood as the father or mother of the consultation system, which we now have with the local government sector, that KS operates with figures other than those we discussed in cooperation in the consultation system, as it was in fact agreed. I think it is important that, for structural reasons, the local government sector also takes account of its own pension expenditure and that it is the ones responsible. I want to give an example of why this is good for the Norwegian population. The municipality of Kristiansund has had a conversion, and they have, among other things, has chosen another way of resolving their post-employment benefit obligations, because they have taken a greater share of the disability of their employees. This has meant that Kristiansund Municipality was in the first line to join the inclusive working life and was the first municipality in More and Romesdal to sign up under the scheme including working life, because they had a self-cost, because they had a motive for having a better working environment. Such structural changes are important that we have in Norwegian society. That's why it's important that we can't just count on delivering the bills, and that they are to be paid by the rest of the community. Nor do we get good initiatives locally. What I think is most negative by reading the community proposition, which fortunately does not have a majority, is the Workers' Party's total turnaround about giving municipalities greater space for action. In terms of area, they are now jumping off schemes which they themselves submitted two years ago to the Storting, schemes that would go from being earmarked schemes to being incorporated into the local economy. In this way, the Workers' Party ensures that we continue to focus on things to be earmarked, the Stortinget should give priority, and we do not trust the municipalities. Even in the context of the debate we had on the ten percent rule on housing, where one could not have confidence that the municipalities could decide who to cooperate with, I find it disappointing for the future of Kommune-Norway. I believe many are waiting and longing for less individual regulations, less bureaucracy and less earmarking. Designations of the type we have today, and bureaucracy are linked, because that means that each State Council is responsible in this Chamber for the use of earmarked funds, and that means that there is much closer control and reporting procedures. I hope that this is only a one-off case from the Workers' Party, and that they will find back to what was their idea when they themselves put in government, less earring. Let me finally say two things about the elderly care reform. I am pleased that we are now coming to an end to this, and that a broad majority have found a solution to the end. When Karin Andersen says that it's just a housing reform, I'm going to make a confession, that I've also said that for a long time. However, I would like to say that the evaluation presented in the big message that has gone to the Social Committee shows that the objective of 12 000 new annual works related to this, which is the quality part of care for the elderly, is actually over-fulfilled. There are 13,000 more annual work in the care of the elderly. We must not help to bring down this reform by complaining that there has not been any improvement in quality. The Minister for Social Affairs has said that we will come back with a review of quality and how we will better deal with the elderly and improve quality in these areas. In sum, I think there's a lot of positive in what the majority is doing here, but I'm actually very disappointed because the Labour Party, through the arrangement they're showing here, has turned completely in relation to earrings and relative to freedom in the municipalities. It is frightening, and I hope that the local politicians will also discover that the Workers' Party has turned all the way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1059	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1062	In the financial speech last year, I announced that the Workers' Party will spend NOK 1 billion more on kindergartens every year. Of course we will. That's also what we do through the kindergarten agreement. The Workers' Party proposes an additional DKK 1 billion in free income in the municipal economy, which is about the same as the Workers' Party had in the budget of the year, as well as the provision to cover the difference between the Government's structure and the Workers' Party and the majority's arrangement in the case of kindergartens. Then there is the natural question to the Council of State Solberg: Has the government not given anything to the kindergarten sector in its municipal structure? In that case, I fully understand that the government did not find it possible to participate in a kindergarten bet, contrary to the signals sent by the government parties in the past. I would also like to ask Solberg: Has Solberg said that the municipalities have to cut off the welfare offer, or has she not? Paragraph 2: Has Per-Kristian Foss said that there will be at least DKK 1 billion more in tax relief than that already adopted for the current year, or not? In that case, has the government had a choice between more tax relief than what has already been adopted, or cut in schools, in kindergartens and in other welfare services, and isn't that what we are actually facing here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1071	We are not finished with the 2003 budget. What we can afford for kindergartens, what we can afford for municipalities and what we can afford for tax relief and all the other important things in the 2003 budget depends on what we actually have in income in this country, and not least how much demands we have on funding different types of decisions taken in this room over the past few weeks. That means that today we don't know how much space there is for kindergartens. There is a certain room for a bet on kindergartens within the earmarked schemes that have been taken into account in our municipal economy. There is also room there for a commitment to the further development of the psychiatry plan and care for the elderly. But it won't be the same pace as we would have liked if we hadn't got all the decisions that have already tied up the space for action. When we get new decisions every day, it becomes a problem. But what's interesting is that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, through the revised national budget, has promised SEK 1.6 billion in tax reliefs, and then he has more than what Per-Kristian Foss has already said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1078	The representative Swensen from the Coastal Party was in this with the company tax. The coastal party has also made a proposal which is on the table of the representatives today. Proposal No. of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 35 is a little bit more concrete. Now we know that the government is working on this, and then it could have been interesting, for the Progress Party at least, to know where this is now in the apparatus. Is it such that the Government comes up with a case of its own, or is it possible to get something more out of it in the 2003 budget? The reason why the Progress Party wants the Council of State to elaborate a little more is that we are wondering whether we might have to do something about proposal No. 35 to a transmission proposal, because we have no interest in agreeing to the proposal to refund the company tax. Therefore, it might be interesting to get a little more confirmation that this work is in progress, and that the municipalities will soon get the company tax refunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1088	It is such that we have a working group in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Local Government working on corporate tax issues. What we have said in the Sem statement is not that we should go back to the old system, but to a system in which we allocate the profits according to other principles, so that it becomes more in line with the value creation that happens, as the old system was. Everyone knows that the old scheme primarily gave big revenues to Bærum, Asker and Oslo, because the financial income was distributed among the head offices, and that it therefore gave a division. That's why we're working on new distribution criteria. Because the introduction of corporate tax into the local economy means a change between municipalities in the income systems for the future, we see no possibility of getting it from 2003. We work in relation to perhaps having to do it in 2004, but we have to have this working group done before I dare to conclude and promise Stortinget a time when we will be able to get it done. We're working on a request for 2004, that it comes in the municipal proposition for the next spring. But until 2003, I think I can guarantee that we will not make it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1095	I will quote from a letter that I have received this week. That's where it's called.\t\t You can change the settings of ‘I’m the mother of a nearly 13-year-old boy who needs extensive special education. We're writing June 17 today. Soon it will be St. Hans. Then there were vacation plans that were in focus. We also write a complaint about the lack of allocation of T-hours/Assistant hours. He has a chronic ‘suffering’, a complex diagnosis. He's multi-disabled. Unfortunately, it's amazing to think that disabled children, young people who roll off to their place of study instead of going, older people who want to keep themselves clean, etc. etc. may be those who are going to roll over a government budget or destroy the national economy....Do you want to give anything to the municipalities? So that they can give something to our children, to the young people who roll out,»... «to the elderly who so would like a shower more often than every 14 days...» I'm asking for tips from the government council for a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1115	There is no doubt that the local economy, both next year, this year and all the previous years, will lead to some who have needs and tasks that we cannot solve. Unfortunately, there are people in our society that I think we will always have problems finding solutions for. I have myself as a politician before I came to the Stortinge sitting and assigning extra lessons to just such groups in school and knowing that at that time we also had to rationalize with the hours we had, because it was simply a financial framework for it. I know it's going to be hard for some people. But I also know that it is possible to use resources better than what we do in public today. Therefore, I think it is very important that we ensure that the municipalities get the best possible framework conditions for making the best use of the money they have. This means that we need a programme to modernise, so that there are smaller denominations, that there will be the opportunity to launch competition in certain areas and to follow up on resource utilisation in order to make the best use of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1122	The Minister of Local Affairs is an honest person and admits that it will be cut. Why wouldn't it also be right to admit that what she's really asking the municipalities for is to spend the same money several times for the same things. You can't do that. Why is it necessary that we have to be so spooky in Norway today, that we have to sit and rationalize on such things, as the Council of State has now said? Then you owe it to me that there's some earmarked money that makes it impossible. It is absolutely impossible to understand that the government of the world's richest country, which has the best economy to take off, is not able to solve the completely elementary, fundamental needs of people who have no means of helping themselves. What in the world is what makes this government, which has such resources, have to admit that it is, that this must continue to be the case in 2003 for disabled people in Norway, because we cannot help you.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1127	It's not that spending more money necessarily always means getting more problems done. If spending more money means spending money in wrong places, through inefficient solutions, or if we push up interest rates, push inflation, push up cost levels with everything we have to solve, we don't necessarily get any more of it. That is the background for the previous big business decision that we should have an action rule that would phase in the use of oil money in a healthy way compared to the Norwegian economy. It's actually the biggest fence because we don't have enough money to solve all of the problems. Then we can discuss between ourselves, SV, Right, Labour Party and other parties, what priority we should have, for example. on the long-term growth-creating mechanisms – which I believe the tax relief scheme is important in order to achieve – because in the future we will also have to solve the problems for people with disabilities and others. It's still going to be like this in our society, whether we have to take care of the growth power or not. But that always means that as politicians we're going to have to say no, also to some weak groups. That's part of the job we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1132	Parents feel compelled to start with school money to get a good school for their children. It upsets me very much. Obviously, the Solberg and Clamet Councils do not let such a thing happen. From them is the comment that municipalities must prioritize different. There is no more money for public schools, but private schools should get better conditions, and private schools should get more. My question to the Council of State is therefore: was it the Right's plan that the voters should use the tax on property in the school? Otherwise I must be allowed to correct the Council of State. I said in my previous post that the agreement between the government party and the Progress Party here in Stortinget had not given a further penny to the municipalities in addition to the government's arrangement. Of course, that is my point of view, because it is consistent with the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1140	What the representative Reidar Sandal said, and what I heard, might be different. I believe I have heard that he said that there will not be one more penny for the municipalities next year in addition to the scheme that had now been agreed. Then we can take it afterwards, if we read the minutes or other things. No, actually, it wasn't the Right's opinion that you should get more props in school to finance tax relief. My question is in many ways: how to finance the tax relief of the Workers' Party? The fact is that the system of depreciation rates on machines set up in the revised national budget will have a tax relief effect next year, mainly on the weak, which is higher than what Per-Kristian Foss has suggested could be a possible tax relief. That is also a priority. I can agree to discuss that it is a priority in the long-term growth force to be able to solve public tasks in the future, which our tax reliefs actually are, but it's not like we're in favour of tax relief and the Workers' Party's opposition. The Labour Party operates double accounting, because they have something here in the very area they're in for when they talk to those people, and then they have something else when they're talking about local economy. It's not related.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1147	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1150	The husband of crisis maximisation and pessimism from the left in Norwegian politics I have not experienced. I am absolutely sure that the crisis maximisation and pessimism spread from these parties now is at least not for the benefit of the municipal sector and is not erased for the inhabitants of the municipalities of Norway. It is claimed from a number of areas that the municipal sector and the municipal economy have been run in the ditch, and trains run through Karl Johan with 90 to 100 rapporteurs. The representative, Kleppa, had received a letter. I do not know how many letters or e-mails I have received in the last three months from insurgent rapporteurs from the Central Party and from the Labour Party who have been in charge of their own municipality for 4, 8, 12, 16 and 20 years and who are responsible for the economy of each municipality. So SV's representatives and the Central Party's representative spend a lot of their time criticising the Progress Party, so doubt the goals and agenda of the Progress Party in local economy and in politics. We have always met that – a criticism. Now we have entered into a deal, negotiated with the government parties, where we actually give NOK 2 to 2.5 billion more to the municipalities, more than we've ever done before. This is not the policy of the Progress Party, because we believe that the framework for the municipalities is large enough. But here we agree to increase the size of the municipalities by up to NOK 2.5 billion. In addition, in this cooperation, we will have commitments to provide municipalities with all the increased tax revenue from today's date out of 2003. If the labour market becomes stable, if business becomes stable, it can add almost $4 billion to the municipalities, based on the figures we use from the past. Then we're actually in the vicinity of SV's promises. But the SV doesn't say anything about when they promise 80,5 billion more, is where they're going to bring in the 80,5 billion. They shall do so by increasing the property tax, the VAR taxes in the municipalities, increased petrol taxes, electricity prices, etc., which all the weak groups, of which SV are so concerned, must be involved and pay. To think completely, they're all inside. Then it is also important to look at the costs that the left-hand side of Norwegian policy imposes on municipalities through tax policy, along with what they try to provide. It is therefore interesting to read the report of the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal and Municipal Economics, March 2002. Is it that wrong with the local government sector? All of them, most of the municipalities are in balance or have profits. A minority of municipalities are in deficit, largely managed by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. Municipality-Norway has $250 billion in wealth. They have $80 billion in debt. Overall, it tells me that the municipal sector in general has good framework conditions. The problem is that the rapporteurs who are now threatening to leave because they do not get more money to spread around to secondary areas in their own municipality have not previously prioritised primary tasks. If this is the case, which is another signal from these rapporteurs, that the State has imposed too large a task on them, why can they not then allow the State to take over some heavy tasks, let the State finance the care of the elderly, let the State finance the school? At least we get enough money for these areas, which seems like more people in this room are busy, but the system is more important than providing enough resources for those tasks. That's what's kind of most important. This has nothing to do with reducing the right of self-determination in local communities. Of course, even if a person receives government funding, the municipalities can operate nursing homes, nursing homes and schools. The point is to provide sufficient funds, and then the majority in this Chamber will soon have to look towards the Progress Party in terms of financing arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1169	The government has from day 1 when they came into government, flagged high the fight against poverty, and since that time they've been looking for what's going on to find out who's going to be considered poor. But we know a lot about who's poor. One of the things we know is that they certainly live somewhere – they live in a municipality – and that it is a municipality and a county that will give them housing, that will provide them with training, and that will give them good social conditions with which it is possible to live. But with the miserable local economy that the Government is raising, there is reason to ask the question: Who is affected by increased ownership, as we see municipalities introducing everywhere, cutting housing and tightening budgets for social welfare beneficiaries? So this affects the most, the poorest – it's young people, it's lonely with children, it's refugees, and it's some minimum pensioners. The Housing Committee has said that there is a need for a large-scale investment in housing. If we can't do it, more people are going to need housing support in the time to come. When there is too little housing allowance, and there is not enough money in the municipalities to compensate for it, we risk that everything will stop. It's precarious for the young people, who are today down-prioritized, and it's precarious in relation to the goal of making refugees. This will result in – in parallel with a lower level of government housing support, and in a reduction in the number of people with housing support, and in a reduction in government housing support – that municipalities with municipal housing support receive a corresponding increase in their expenditure. If the local economy is narrowed, it means that it affects those who receive municipal housing support. In worst cases they lose all the municipal housing support, because the municipality cannot afford to have it. When the Council of State asks the municipalities to take up 8 000 refugees every year, and we see that until now only 2 000 refugees are living, the speech of the figures is clear: this is something the municipalities are unable to do. We need more money to give priority to social housing, and we need more money to give priority to the poor. It does SV in its proposed municipal economy for next year. So the government doesn't. Then I can't let go of the Advance Party. For the Progress Party, SV's proposal of SEK 8.5 billion calls the municipalities more pathetic and a little constructive, that is what was said instead. Søviknes in the municipality of Os is unable to send the pensioners to the South, as he promised in the election campaign, because his municipal economy is too tight. When we want a better community economy so that the municipality of Søviknes and Os can give priority to sending the old to the south, I have to ask: is this pathetic? The representative of Alvheim in the Social Committee, at the end of the seniority effort, is in favour of 8 000 additional employees in the municipality to care for the elderly and to provide them with a proper, decent offer. When SV wants to enable municipalities to give priority to the same positions, is it that we are pathetic? The advancement party will have its own system so that the elderly can have the right to care and care, but as long as they don't get it, they tighten up for those who care today. Is it then that we are a little constructive, when we want to give the municipalities the opportunity to provide better care and care? I am so sorry about the hypocrisy of the Advance Party in this matter, when they use the old pastor's trick to promise people the light of heaven, and then they ask people to look blind on the sun. Because it is not that the Progress Party keeps its promises and prioritizes the disabled. They do not give priority to the weak groups in the budgetary comparisons they make with the Government, which they have been responsible for over the last few years. There are always other things that are more important to the Progress Party. We have seen several times that what is more important is tax relief for the richest – SEK 1.5 billion in taxes on dividends. It's money that could have been used well to make sure people got a better offer, both older people, young people, disabled people and others who need it. This money should have gone to the municipalities, because they are doing the job today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1182	The President would point out that calling another party's policy on hypocrisy is hardly a parliamentary acceptable expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1185	Welfare is created in municipalities. There's created a lot of well-being in my grown-up life. The municipalities have increased their services at all levels, and in 20 years the double number is added. In this debate, I thought it to the right as if Kommune-Noreg were completely bankrupt. I can't believe it's like this when I travel around. I would also say that 20 years ago, Kommune-Noreg was a good place to live, with good growing conditions, with good schooling, with old-age housing that did not create dissatisfaction. I'm not in agreement with SV that the misery of the 1960s was overwhelming. In the 1980s we had at least a lot of qualities. And today we have a lot, a lot more. Let's stick to that fact. The Government's programme of modernisation will mean less reporting and control and more time for service production. That's necessary, because Norway actually doesn't want money in the first place, but free hands to do the job, and that leads to some constraints. Does not the Christian People's Party take vocabularies and misguided telephones, e-mails and letters seriously? Yeah, let's do that. We can easily see that many – often underfunded – innovations, demands and statutory tasks, such as 11 September, with consequences for the stock market and therefore for pension funds, as well as an expensive wage settlement, have caused serious difficulties for many of our municipalities. In this situation, the comparison with the Progress Party gives some good answers. The municipalities will retain more of the tax growth both in 2002 and 2003. Of course, we can't say exactly what it means by improvement, but this meant $2.9 billion more in 2001. As a result, municipalities in the fall could pay the additional pension costs without cutting down on welfare. The fact that they also increase pension expenditure is not as gigantic as the worst case figures that have taken place in the KS and in the municipalities in the last weeks is still a good thing. Countless calculator has been delivered with incorrect instructions and thus incorrect conclusions. The Government Party believes that the growth in VAT may correspond to the increase in pension expenditure, which means that there will be a real growth in the municipality of Norway, which may have to be used to pay the wage increase. It is sadly a fact that while we employ both teachers and health professionals in a better personal economy, the wage-fixing system is striking under both the export right of business and the total economy of Kommune-Noreg. It would have been best for everyone if the paycheck had been an agreement where real wage improvements came in the form of e.g. Tax relief – it is not always so negative – in some form or other, as the Netherlands has done for ten years and better saying competitiveness continuously. The parental reform is now seeing its end. But before the last nails are spiked, we have built all the sick home places that the municipalities have applied for. I'm glad. A total of 5,000 more sick places — some of them just enough care places — mean worthwhile old age. The one-room reform has been completed. I hope there hasn't been a single room reform. And I hope it's enough with two people's rooms left for those who get anxious about bowing all alone, or those who want to live in rooms with their spouse. I am pleased that the municipalities of growth have finally received attention. It has been highly unreal, although population growth is positive, that some municipalities have not been counted against all their actual residents when calculating transfers. It's also positive to have a total of 650 million. kr of the discretionary post is set aside for heavy users. Top funding will be available in 2004, but in the meantime, heavy user discretion has doubled in a few years. Despite the tight frame: The black paint about next year's municipal economy seems to me to be untimely. I would wish that those who use the blackest and widest brushes could admit that no fury has happened since last year, and that the people out there will have about the same supply for next year as this year. In some areas, provision will also be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1204	When the government presented the municipal bill, it was a surprisingly tight arrangement for the municipalities. Even the Minister of State said during the presentation that the economy would be tight until next year, and that a reduction in the welfare offer in some municipalities was inevitable, but that it was the responsibility of the municipalities to adapt to the framework that was given, and that the government had spent as much money on the municipalities as there was room for in a responsible budget. In other words, the government had used up the space of action in the economy for tax relief for those who have the most. The major problems with increases in pension expenditure were unresolved, and the Government stated in its proposal that increasing pension expenditure was a municipal responsibility. Many in the municipalities probably believed that the Stortinget would arrange and increase the framework so that the municipalities could have a framework that was to live with, without having to go to the drastic cuts in the welfare services that were in the government's arrangement. It was the Christian People's Party, which also had the case rapporteur, that many municipal politicians put their trust in. It gave hope. But the Christian People's Party had no difficulty in concluding an agreement with the Progress Party and thus secure a majority for an incredibly poor arrangement for the municipalities to next year. The working party was completely uninteresting as partners. The municipal uprising was not allowed to wait. It came strong and wide from all parties, including the government parties. I'll give some examples from my county, Eastfold: 36 Christian People's Party-rapporteurs in rebellion, there stood, Christian People's Party-rapporteurs the country around Kjell Many Bondevik, demanding that he personally intervene in the municipal rebellion. The demand was more money and a solid dishwashing round with the municipal minister. The Aremark rapporteur from the Christian People's Party said he thought we had a municipal minister who didn't have a bearing, and said that the Christian People's Party should have cooperated with the Workers' Party instead. And so we could read about the Christian People's Party rapporteurs from the municipality to the municipality around the country. But nothing helped – demonstrations, newspaper headlines, extraordinary KS national meeting, meeting with the Government. They traveled the veil and empty-handed home again after meeting with the Government. They had no promises. A united presidency, all the parties in Fredrikstad, is in favour of civil disobedience. Now it's over, they say, and they connect their fists. Today we've heard that municipalities can save $3 billion by merging, and many think that's the solution. But Fredrikstad is a merged municipality. There's a municipality of 67,000 people, and they've taken full advantage of the property tax. But the economy is just as miserable. As an example, I would mention that Fredrikstad had had $129 million. kr more to walk with if the municipality had had the average income level in Kommune-Norway. All the parties in Fredrikstad have now decided to implement a number of measures that will affect the state, not the inhabitants. The same thing has been done by a number of other municipalities. Fredrikstad municipality has, among others: expenditure on economic social assistance and child protection was high. Nevertheless, the Government in the proposition does not propose that Fredrikstad should receive the metropolitan supplement. Fortunately, it's done something to a total of this stuff, and that's going to be an extra $92 per. the population. But $6.3 million. kr will be small in relation to the gap between the costs and the income of the municipality. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party go further and believe that grants must be given to several municipalities that have expenditure on drugs and psychiatry, in line with the largest cities. We have numbers of this. And Sarpsborg is one of these municipalities. But we don't get a majority. The progress party blocks and will not participate in giving such a majority. With respect to reporting, it is alarming that the ex-rapporteur in Tønsberg, who is now a member of the Municipal Committee, six months after leaving the rapporteur's chair, says to Tønsbergs Blad, under the heading «Stop complaining»: ‘I think perhaps some of the rapporteurs who have now been most loudly threatened should do exactly what they say, draw and let go of new forces to be able to do things in completely new ways.’ And today he continues that the municipal politicians are not very objective, the worst politicians know, are prioritizing, etc. It is amazing that such statements come from someone who was rapporteur just six months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1241	I will give rights to individual representatives, other parties and KS in that many municipalities are struggling and are in need of finance. It is a reality. Our municipal minister has not disputed this at any time either. On the contrary, the Council of State of Erna Solberg has been fully involved since the City Proposition was presented, stressing that this is a strict municipal arrangement, not least because there are strong commitments in relation to the 2003 budget. These commitments are a direct consequence of all the decisions taken this year. It is worth noting that despite this, the local government sector has increased revenues of between 2 and 2.5 billion in 2003. It is a real growth, and the comparison between the government parties and the Progress Party will also lead to municipalities retaining the growth of VAT in 2002. We're doing, as we know, gripping on reducing the pension costs for the municipalities. So the picture is far from black. But the municipalities have challenges. Wages and pensions have been thoroughly highlighted in the past, and I am not going to say more about this, in addition to the fact that the consultation mechanism between the State and the KS should be an important tool for a future constructive dialogue between the State and the municipalities. For the right, it is important to look at possible improvements within existing schemes and frameworks. We have therefore made great efforts to ensure that municipalities receive state top funding for resource-intensive users. We would have preferred the scheme to be put in place as early as next year, but accept that the government needs time for thorough preparatory work before its introduction in 2004. Therefore, within an unchanged discretionary framework, we suggest instead that an additional 50 million be added. In addition to the Government's proposals, these will be attached. Another temporary scheme must be commented on. In the future, the government will focus on the situation of cities. I would like to stress, for my part, that when we need a rural policy, we also need a policy for cities and press areas. Both parts are equally natural. The government proposed, as you know, a temporary arrangement for Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger and Kristiansand. Three cities were added to the arrangement through the agreement with the Progress Party. I will not comment on this, except to say that it is important that this is only a temporary arrangement. In order to avoid a difficult demarcation problem, next year, the Government will have to find a permanent solution to the challenges of developing objective criteria that are fair and accurate and compensate for the additional costs of many municipalities, among others. drug treatment and psychiatric treatment. We're facilitating the pressure for growth municipalities. For 2003, the population subsidy shall be based on population figures per year. 1 January of the financial year. This change in the calculation rules will mean that municipalities with population growth will be compensated more quickly than at present for increased costs. Thus, citizens will be able to get a better offer. Although we do not fully comply with the Government's wish to reduce the amount of earmarked grants to the municipalities today, there are still several areas to be included in the framework grant. The aim is to reduce the state-level detailed management of the municipal sector and to give municipalities and county municipalities greater opportunities for adaptation to local conditions. Reduced earring will also lead to lower administrative costs at all administrative levels. For me – almost to say – the principle is most important: having confidence in politicians at municipal level. Freedom and responsibility belong together. The economy in the municipal sector is, as we have heard very, very many times earlier today, tight. We recognize that. However, a unanimous committee also expresses the willingness to work towards better framework conditions for the municipal sector in the years to come. Equally important is that the municipalities themselves look at their operations with a critical look. I know from my own experience that many municipalities have cut down and tightened up for years. But I also know from my own experience that it is possible to do things differently, be creative and see opportunities. Many municipalities struggle to get a satisfactory service offer for their inhabitants. Possible instruments for these may be inter-municipal cooperation or associations with other municipalities. Three to four billion savings we heard on the radio today early. But what serves the best of each municipality should be up to the politicians in the municipality to decide. But I can't help but point to another possibility: outsourcing. Municipalities themselves need to assess the extent to which they will use competitive outsourcing as an instrument. But from a user perspective, we believe it is right to have a more freer position for municipalities and state service providers. [[President clubs]] Then I'll finish my post there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1269	The working party wants to ensure that municipalities have predictability in the economy, so that they dare to build more kindergartens. The majority will increase the State operating grant to about 80 pst. from 1 August 2003. We're adding a one-off grant of NOK 16 000 per. space for children over three years of age, and NOK 20 000 per year. place for children under three years of age, from 1 July 2002. The working party knows that more money is needed to get more babysitting places. We're willing to invest that money in the kids. Although kindergartens were debated earlier this week, we still lack answers to some questions. Does the Government intend to follow up the decision on kindergartens? The government parties say they want the same thing as us. Now I want to know how much money the Bondevik government put in in connection with the negotiations in the nursery agreement. We know the answer, but this was a question the government parties would not answer in the debate on Monday. Now can we get the answer? It is absolutely necessary to transfer more money from the state in the coming years, so that municipalities get an economy that is proportionate to the tasks they will do for their citizens. In the 2003 municipal bill, the government says it gives the municipalities 750 million. kr for free income. This is very close enough to cover the increased costs to municipalities. I allow myself to complain that the Government has also failed to comply with the requirements of Storting regarding increased financial compensation for resource-intensive users. It is important for both small and large municipalities to put in place such a predictable and stable financing system. Care for heavy users is very costly and consumes considerable resources, both economically and humanly. In fact, a government must follow the decisions taken by the Storting – some of which are called parliamentaryism. It should be noted by state council electord Reply City Haugland. The Government has not followed up the decision to establish a state top-level funding for resource-intensive users by the majority of the Storting. When municipalities work economically and have users who, for example, cost between 2 and 3 million. kr per. person in the year, the consequence will be that municipalities will not be able to provide satisfactory quality of the offer or that the supply of disabled persons will be so expensive that it will be at the expense of welfare services to the other population in the municipality. Even in a well-developed welfare society, there will always be someone who needs more from the community than others. It is the municipalities that notice that some of the residents do not have it that well. This results in a breakdown of the social budget. In local terms, we read that many municipalities have problems dealing with child protection issues within the deadlines and get help from these children and young people. We therefore ask the Government to provide an assessment of the child protection situation in the 2003 budget and, where appropriate, to put in place measures. I'm from Hedmark. It's a beautiful country with beautiful nature. But we're in an oil shadow. We don't live by fishing either, and geographically and economically the county is clearly too far south. I receive daily enquiries from rapporteurs in Hedmark, who are quite dismayed that they do not have financial opportunities to give their citizens the welfare they need and demand. The rapporteur in Engerdal said that he had to cancel himself to save wages. Engerdal municipality is small. It has 1,700 inhabitants and has to save 8 – 8 – million. kr. It'll be tough for a small municipality. I can also inform you that the salary bill and the extra expenses of the Municipal Pension Fund cost the municipalities of the Østerdalen and Hedemarken 227 million. kr. The result is cut, which will have to hit the population, both children and young people in kindergarten and school, the elderly and those with special care needs. I wonder if this is a misguided development so that the merger of municipalities forces itself. It's a paradox that the government that used to choose to create a better school is leading the municipalities into poverty, where the school is actually one of the hardest hit. But maybe the school or the municipalities aren't so important when it comes to paying for new promises of tax relief? That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party is now proposing an increase to the local government sector, although this is obviously not enough either. I want to ask the Council of State, which represents the Right, if she agrees with what came up at the Central Council of the Christian People's Party when they discussed the kindergarten situation on Tuesday. Because at the meeting, which was also attended by Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, a spectacular resolution was adopted, it says in the VG, where the Christian People's Party Summits recommend the Government to disregard the maximum price decision in the Stortinget. What's going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1297	First, to the representative Eirin Faldet, who should definitely be reminded that the Labour Party voted against top finance as late as last year. The Labour Party had done nothing about this matter until they luckily left the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Then turn over to the representative Signe Eye. The representative Eye and the Workers' Party have the same credibility in this matter as when they were out in the media a month ago and criticized the government's lack of investment in refugee housing. Not one additional crown granted to the Workers' Party in the revised national budget for refugee housing. So over to the modernisation of the public sector and the municipalities, which is an important goal for the cooperation parties. This is what we want to do by developing a more vibrant local democracy, by giving local politicians greater scope for action, by facilitating more efficient use of scarce resources, and by using more user-adapted service production. Strengthening the incentives of local authorities to promote the development of nutrition and to ensure the establishment of nutrition is a small part of meeting the first two principles mentioned above. It is therefore important for me to get the government's work on returning a share of the corporate tax to the municipalities. This will stimulate economic development across the country and promote municipalities that facilitate value creation and new jobs. As government parties see it, there are no decisive arguments against opening up the competition to municipal audits. Municipalities should be able to choose whether the audit should be carried out by their own municipal auditors, perhaps in an inter-municipal cooperation, or whether the task should be outsourced to a private company. Postponement of competition gives the municipalities freedom of choice, freedom of choice to choose the solution that best suits the municipality: either to retain an audit entity of their own, to participate in inter-municipal cooperation or to use a private company. This freedom of choice is a good civil policy. It is therefore very gratifying that the Ministry announces that it intends to promote a legislative proposal on municipal control and supervision based on the law opening up the competition to municipal audits. The current value added tax system provides economic motivation for public activities to self-production of services that are subject to VAT law rather than to purchase the service from private operators. Large parts of the public sector are outside the VAT system and are therefore not deducted from their purchases from VAT. Public enterprises thus save VAT by producing themselves. This system handles differences. In any market, discrimination of this kind is unfortunate. It is always in the public interest that the supplier who is the most efficient and of the best quality is chosen, regardless of whether the service is produced by the public itself or by private individuals. The cooperation parties want to balance this difference, and it is also gratifying on this occasion that the Government is working well to explore solutions. It is with wonder that I record that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have great distrust of the local politicians of the country. It is these parties that are at the forefront of earring and thus show a huge distrust of our local politicians. And the strupping of municipal autonomy continues. The kindergarten agreement is probably an example of a lack of confidence in the priorities of our local politicians. The cooperation parties have – and demonstrate – confidence in both local politicians and the other individual individuals of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1314	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Before we start on the three-minute posts, the President will remember the arrangements that have been agreed upon in advance, and will ask the representatives to make an effort to limit themselves. We have now debated the matter for 3 hours and 15 minutes, and there are many things left on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1320	The requirement for increased cost-effectiveness in the municipal sector is not a new date. It has followed developments in the sector as a damp shadow throughout the 1990s. There have been and are still areas that can become more streamlined and more modern than today, but in pursuit of better and cheaper services, we often forget to ask questions about the instruments contribute to a fair distribution of resources. It is commendable that the Right and Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party, contribute to the maintenance of the VAT growth for 2002 and 2003 by the municipal sector. I want to draw attention to the income system, even though this is not affected by major changes in the St.prp. No 63 for 2001-2002. It is positive that the Government will take a closer look at criteria that can capture variations in capital costs. In particular, the pressure areas around Oslo and other major cities note the pressures of high investment needs. The forecast for the number of 16- to 19-year-olds in the period 2000–2010 shows that Akershus will have a growth rate of 36 p.m., while the country will otherwise lie at approx. 19 pst. What this will mean for the need for places for secondary education is obvious to everyone. The needs are all special today for Akershus. Not only the county municipality, most primary municipalities in the county have worn out for a long time. The income system and its use are a major cause of the situation, inter alia: Akershus. This is not, as several workers' party representatives have claimed, the responsibility of the Government. Neither the Cooperative Government nor previous governments have been able to criticise this for the last ten years alone. The basis for the differences created began with the introduction of a new income system in 1986. For example, we could take the allocation of ordinary discretionary funds to county councils over the last eight years. Akershus has received 1.8 pst. of the resources allocated during the period. It may not be possible for the income system to function as well in Akershus rather than in other counties. We are today invited to set the total estimate of 4 251 million. kr. Of this pot, only minor amounts of distribution are justified, with the exception of the exceptional discretionary framework. When the practice of the ministry in the distribution of discretionary frames is experienced, both unfairly and randomly, the allocation basis for the entire discretionary power should be the subject of a new debate. It may not be possible for the income system to function badly year after year in one place in the country, while the seemingly well-functioning elsewhere. The funds shall, as is known, compensate municipalities and county councils for special local conditions that are not captured by the cost key. It would therefore be interesting to discuss the overall basis for the distribution of the trillions of discretion in the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1335	It is a strange debate conducted by the Labour Party in particular in many ways. There is a debate that is historyless, on more than one point. Firstly, the Workers' Party is trying to create the impression that a difficult local economy is something that started from yesterday until today, or from the moment we changed the government and until today. It refers to a number of rapporteurs, not least the dissatisfaction of the government parties, and ignores the fact that the first truly great revolt against the municipalities and district policies came under the previous Labour Party government. You've always forgotten that. Representatives of the Workers' Party have today stated that the Government does not follow up the decision of the Storting relative to particularly resource-intensive users. It is interesting that the Workers' Party has suddenly been occupied by it, because when this was up last year, the Workers' Party voted down to get this top-funded. Now you've suddenly become very concerned about it. The government is actually following up on this, by adding 650 million. kr in the budget. That's 150 million. kr more than last year. It's a follow-up to Storting's policy. Then I want to say that I think that the community economics proposition focuses on something that has perhaps been poorly debated in recent years, namely the situation of the major city municipalities. I think it is important to be aware that the major urban communities need greater attention as a consequence of the kind of problems that they may have, in particular, relating to infrastructure, to asylum policy, to the rural area and not least to the psychiatry. As a result, some municipalities have received a major urban grant, and it is announced that they will return to this, with their own criteria for designing the type of compensation for municipalities that are particularly vulnerable. We have many municipalities around the country that, although they may be smaller than the largest cities, have similar, perhaps larger problems, especially in psychiatry and care. Haugesund is one example of that, Grenland another. We are given the opportunity to come back and discuss even more municipalities when that time comes. What is also interesting to note is the hard drive that the Workers' Party has towards the framework of the municipal sector. Then I think there is only reason to remember that the framework that the government sitting in is adding is larger than the Workers' Party has ever proposed to Norwegian municipalities. That doesn't mean it's enough, because we have a big challenge in the fact that the gap between assigned tasks and resources is still big. Not least, it is related to the violent reformist Workers' Party in its time, which had consequences for municipalities by not introducing the necessary funds. It is a demanding challenge that both the sitting government and the opposition must take note of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1348	I'm sorry I have to take a three-minute walk. As rapporteur-in-Office, I have sought fairness and cleanliness, respect for the other parties and their positions in the work of the Committee. In the Committee, the Workers' Party strongly urged them to become familiar with the Agreement as soon as possible. The Labour Party also asked to be briefed on the outcome of the meeting of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on 12 June. Before the parties to the agreement went to the press, all members of the Committee were given the agreement. I don't know. On 6 and 13 June, the meeting was held in Brussels on 12 June. fax. I therefore react with anger when the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen claims from Stortinget's pulpit that the Workers' Party was never contacted. It has been followed up by the representative Signe Eye. President, lying may not be a parliamentary expression, but Schjøtt-Pedersen's claims are false. As the rapporteur and representative of the government parties, I first went to the Workers' Party. We agreed to the procedures. I visited the Workers' Party twice. But when, in addition to pointing out two areas: pension costs and more money, the Workers' Party could not specify the size of the claim, I informed them that, in order to proceed with the case, I had to go to the Progress Party and negotiate, in line with what we had agreed. I am strongly responding to the fact that false things are being produced from the pulpit of the Storting when I have really stressed the fairness and cleanliness of this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1355	It was not my intention to extend this debate, but after this ‘gray Salbe’ that the Progress Party was served by the representative Holmås of SV, so I had no other option but to seize the word. The word "hypocrisy" was used. I think the criticism that was made by the representative Holmås of SV is groundless. I strongly disagree with that. With regard to the priority of the poor, it is that the Progress Party should be the largest guarantor of having good welfare offers and offers for those groups in Norway that do not have as many resources as other groups. I aim, among other things: that we have a funding system to offer an equivalent offer to everyone across the country, whether the municipality has a bad economy or not. I see that as a major improvement for those groups that may not be prioritised as well within the local priority system that exists today when it comes to awarding publicly funded welfare services. But there is no doubt that the local government sector is stuck in the old tracks. The Progress Party wants to get the local authority sector out of the way and will help us to get into a new development where we see a positive trend in the quality and level of publicly funded services. But here, unfortunately, SV depends on what they've done in so many other cases. They are based on the old principles of how Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian publicly funded welfare services are to be produced through this monopoly system. I repeat the five main elements that, in my view, need to be changed in the Norwegian government: The financial system needs to be modified. We have to get a price and a free tax right, and we will thus receive an equivalent offer to everyone.The competition element must be ordered and generalised. We need to get rid of the public service monopolies, which are largely inefficient. We need fewer and larger municipalities.We need statutory rights – I ask the representative Holmås to bear this in mind – in terms of access to and availability of public welfare services.We need a system based on increased local autonomy. There is a need to revitalise the Norwegian local democracy. With regard to this with high taxes and taxes, it is true that SV has traditionally been a party that will have very high taxes and taxes. And who is affected by high taxes and taxes? Special charges affect those who have little to walk with. Here the Progress Party has a much better economic recipe to help the weak groups in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1384	The President repeats that for every minute now used, there will be one minute in addition to the meeting of the night. Tomorrow, the Stortinget is facing the most important debate in spring, namely the debate on the revised national budget – the President just reminds us of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1387	I will take the floor first and foremost on the basis of the statement by the representative Per Sandberg here earlier. As a representative of the party that has had something ahead of it as its political foundation to describe the misery in Norwegian municipalities, not least in the care of the elderly, the representative Sandberg now performs to accuse the other opposition parties of working with black paint and pessimism. Is it now that the Progress Party is no longer so concerned about the state of Norwegian care for the elderly? In that case, there are completely new tones from the Progress Party. Sandberg further said that the «framework of the municipalities is large enough», Norwegian municipalities have good framework conditions. He also said that the small increase that lies in the agreement that the Progress Party has concluded with the Government on the municipal proposition is actually being done against the will of the Progress Party. But if there is still a need for increased efforts, better quality and more employees in the elderly care and care sectors in the municipalities, why is the Progress Party hammering and hammering on its solutions to state-wide price financing, which will automatically solve all problems in the care of the elderly? It was now repeated again by the representative Andersen. SV believes that there is an oversimplification of the world, but now leave it in this round. What becomes the question of the Progress Party is: When will the Progress Party pull its head off the sand and realize that there is a solid majority in this Chamber that will care and care be a municipal responsibility, which will be financed through the municipal economic framework. What the Progress Party is now doing by refusing to realise that the world is what it is is is not to hit primarily the councillors, rapporteurs and municipal politicians. No, it affects the weakest — the elderly, the disabled and the needy. When is the Progress Party going to realize that? If this isn't hypocrisy, at least it's – as I see it – a betrayal of the disabled, the elderly and the needy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1403	First, I need to point out to the President that next year's debate on the local economy is a very big and important debate, and I sincerely hope it is not the Presidency's view that this is a debate that does not deserve speaking time. That being said, I need to comment on a few of the key points. What goes like a red thread through what the Progress Party says, and what especially the Right has said in this debate, is a huge distrust of people at the municipal level – they waste money, throw them into shelter and weather! If they don't know how to sort this out, they're going to get rid of it. On the other hand, it is said that, as long as we want to spend money on the municipal sector, we have a huge mistrust of the local government sector. If you could remove a few puzzle earrings of a few million dollars, the municipalities would have so much freedom that they could solve all the problems marine. This isn't very serious. SV has full confidence in the local government sector. Therefore, we believe that they are the most suitable ones to dispose of the money. We give the money as a frame, and we think it's right. We don't think it's the individual representative here in Stortinget or the individual State Council who has the best idea of what this is like. We actually believe that people who receive services and local politicians have a much better understanding of where the shoe prints, and how things can be done, than what we're sitting in this room have. So to the particularly resource-intensive users: this has been SV's battle cause for many years, precisely because these are people who should not be subjected to fluctuations in the municipal services. They don't have the opportunity to carry it. They're totally helpless and need help for everything. That is why we have thought that they should be raised to the top of government funding. There is a strange debate that is now taking place between the Workers' Party and the Government, because none of them really wanted this arrangement, and they need more time. I have been on the municipal committee for five years, and each time this is to be further investigated, no matter what government sits. I think that's very disappointing. Here you could arrange for some of those who have no opportunity to help themselves. And then at the end of the big city grant: the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm of the Christian People's Party, was in charge of the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, namely to provide large-scale urban grants to the municipalities that have similar expenditures on the drug field and psychiatry as the four municipalities mentioned. It is gratifying that representatives who are not on the committee are able to see it when those who are on the committee are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1418	I need an explanation round of a couple of points. First of all, the State Council's contributions and the cost of pensions: I ask her to confirm that there has been a working group of representatives from the KS and the Ministry who have gone through what we can get from extraordinary pension costs. There is agreement on speaking, but there is disagreement about politics. I also ask the State Council to confirm that the pension problem has not been resolved. And it's going to be high. In the long term, local authorities will have higher premiums, and the contracting parties' model is so far an offsetting of a problem that will have to be solved – there are bills that will have to be paid. We're some of their proposals to change the accounting rules. It will smooth out the premiums in the long term, but in the short term the bills will have to be paid, and it is the municipalities themselves, through cut, who will have to pay these bills if they are not given the funds. Then I read part of a letter from the mother of a disabled child: The letter describes the struggle of the single parent to get the most needed help for his child. Now, the Government has recently received broad support in the Storting for clear boundaries in relation to genetic and biotechnology. For the Central Party, there is a connection between working for a society that includes everyone and giving frameworks to municipalities that allow people with disabilities to follow up. Maybe one shouldn't expect more of Right than the answer I got from the government council, which briefly went on: we have to say no to some weak groups, because that's part of our job. But where is the Christian People’s Party? How is the Christian People's Party in a matter that has once meant so much to them? I can confirm – and I am very sorry – that, based on the contributions of the representatives of the Christian People's Party here in the Chamber today, it seems that they are more concerned with defending a scheme that clearly cuts for the community sector than taking care of good arrangements for weak groups, including good arrangements for disabled children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1429	Brother Yngve Rahm stated that a difficult local economy is not new. That's right. At the same time, it is true that the financial situation of municipalities has become even more difficult, for example: as a result of the pension obligations under consideration. There is also a somewhat strange situation in which the Government proposes that the growth in the local economy will be about 1 billion less from 2002 to 2003 than it actually was from 2001 to 2002. It's hardly an answer to the bigger challenge. I also noticed that the representative Rahm indicated that the municipalities now have more than ever. It is important to consider developments in the local economy, including automatic growth of expenditure due to population growth, and not least as a result of growth in the number of older people. That's why I find it hard to believe that there are a lot of people in the municipal sector who feel that next year they're getting a better economy than they've had in the past. Then I register a violent play from the representative of Østberg, assuming that I said that the Workers' Party has never been contacted. Of course, I've never said that you haven't spoken. Of course, the case's rapporteur has contributed to informing the matter in the committee, by explaining the contact between the government parties and the local government sector and the information he also presented in his statement. There have also been exchanges of views between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. My point is that there has never been a real arrangement to find a negotiated solution between the government parties and the Workers' Party. Here you have applied for the Progress Party, and here you have also received a majority for the cuts that the Government puts up, and for a policy that the Government itself describes as a policy that means reducing welfare services in many municipalities next year. Nor do we get sidetracked, especially with reference to the warnings given by the Minister of Finance about increased tax relief from next year, that here the Government has had a choice. Here the Christian People's Party has had a choice, here the Right has had a choice, and here the Left has had a choice. It is decided to endorse the Minister of Finance's proposal for additional tax measures, and to finance it in part by reducing the provision of childcare services, cutting school facilities and cutting older people's offers. This is a choice. There is nothing that results from budgets that have already been adopted, there is nothing that is a law of nature, but it is a choice that the Government is making here, and it is a choice that determines its political course. I'm recording that choice, but that choice is therefore the Labour Party's disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1440	The Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV have my sympathy – yes, I mean that. I understand very well that these parties now have panic and use all sorts of statements and statements to express that this is going in the wrong direction. There is no doubt that we are changing course, and that is the Progress Party proud to join. We hope that the Government will stand firm on that course and still move in that direction. I must first be allowed to say that it is very polite that SV's three representatives in the hall use 90 pst. of his speaking time to talk about the Advance Party. It just testifies that they don't have anything to talk about themselves, because the only thing they can say to the Storting and to the people is, we're going to spend money unconditionally. And when SV's representatives criticise my previous post on crisis maximisation, I would say that we have pointed out that there has been poor care for the elderly, and that has been in place. That is why an older package of NOK 30 billion came in place. But my claim is that when it comes to municipal economy in general, there's enough money. Here I want to go forward the story to the representative Karin Andersen earlier today, about this Dobe visit and these five crowns. The point is that if SV had been controlled, it would not have kept 5 kroner. Then this double visit had cost 10 kroner. Therefore, SV had still had 5 kroner in deficit, although the money had not fallen on the floor. That's the situation, but the SV's representatives don't say anything about it. And then I must finally be allowed to say again – my colleague Torbjørn Andersen has pointed it out several times – that now it has to end, both from the committee leader and others, trying to present it as if the Progress Party has turned on some issues. The adjustment clearly shows that the forward-looking party in the agreement has generated 80 million. kr to these groups, to particularly resource-intensive groups it is 100 million. kr more next year, plus that it's going to be 30 million. to disabled persons in an institution. So we have a number of proposals that are being discussed, which confirm that. That the Senterparten and SV feel bad because they have not agreed to a settlement, it is due to them, but here we make sure to take care of the problems we have said we should do. We also follow up our promises in relation to this with the pension costs for the municipalities. We have agreed on a settlement where we have given more money to the municipalities, simply because we have realized that the state has a responsibility for the pension costs that the municipalities have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1452	I must be allowed to comment a little on the last speaker now said, and the speeches he has made today on behalf of his party Progress Party. The progress game is double-playing. In the fields of health, care and care, it is the Progress Party that wants to present itself as the great rescue angel. In the past, however, the tone was to point out and criticise the lack of public service provision. Now the representative of the Progress Party, Sandberg, says that we are pointing out the problems and shortcomings in the public sector, black paints. With this black paint technique and tactic, the Progress Party is trying to cover that they are not willing to invest resources and instruments such as: Old and sick people get their needs taken care of, and I think people will eventually discover that. I come from the municipality of Engerdal, where the Presidency has just dealt with a plan to remedy the economic situation of the municipality. Among other things, the rapporteur should go down to 10 pst. the post, the Presidency shall conclude meetings only every two months, and the suspension of addition and investment shall be introduced, which means inter alia. the construction of nursing homes and planned youth housing is not initiated. It is also the case that the provision of services in the field of health and care needs to be reduced. The last thing I want to say is very serious, because it can go beyond life and health, and we know that in other contexts it is not to be accepted. I believe that the bulk of the population does not take the situation in the municipalities inwards and sees the seriousness. I agree with those who have said that the local economy has been tight for a long time. The years of exemption at the end of the 1990s we all know, and everyone at Stortinget agreed that this was a year of exceptional budgeting, so it was little to the municipalities at that time as well. But now the situation is different, and the conditions we have within the pension area, within wage development, etc., make poor follow-up to the local economy now far worse. The government's arrangements mean that the problems will only be pushed forward in time and become even larger next year. It is possible that there is a right-wing policy, with the Right and the Advance Party at the head, which is a wanted and wanted policy. But where is the Christian People’s Party? What do they mean? I think we can place them today -- they've taken the step across the other side and are now in the right-wing political arena. This development that is wild leads to a community merger – we received news today that it was so profitable, but they have rightly been rejected in the course of the day – and we get a centralisation. But what is left of social well-being and well-being? At least it won't get better, but it'll get worse when we get a forced migration where the districts are depleted and squandered and the press areas flooded and squandered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1463	I think the Center Party should think through how they argue in relation to what they did in position. It is not the case that 1998, 1999 and 2000 were exceptional years. There was one budget in that period of exceptional years, but for that year's municipal proposal – before the interest rate had risen and before the financial problems had arisen – the Senterparti put forward a community economic plan that had less growth in free income than the Government has now provided. They didn't pay more money to the municipalities, so now I actually think that the history of the Center Party is going to be so ripping crazy that it makes me think if you shouldn't have better quality in Norwegian school to get a better understanding of how to characterize our close story too. The pension obligations – no, they have not been resolved. What we've set up is a model that involves taking what is the average payment into the budget, that is, the average expenditure in the future, based on an average of the financial returns over the years. That means you have to pay your bills, that means a liquidity pressure, but the truth is that most municipalities have an opportunity to solve the liquidity better than if they have to include it in the budget without going beyond the activity. That possibility exists in most municipalities, and we will of course look at municipalities in relation to advances in framework grants and other things that are possible, if there are some who do not have liquidity ability to do so. But in my opinion, it provides a better and more stable scheme than the scheme proposed by the Workers' Party, because the problem with it is that the pension is initially a fund. What happened in 1999 and 2000 was that the largest municipal pension company chose to pay out money to its owners and put down the premium on the payments because they thought they had high enough funds, thus creating the greater need for high payments in the years to come. So in a situation where there was a high return on capital, they used more of it to lower the bill in the future. In fact, I think it's a good idea that the municipalities have a self-interest in this, and that we have a system in which we must not take over more of the pension liability of the state. So the question about these individual relationships that we all find difficult to deal with, and that we find difficult. But even with the arrangement of the Center Party, there would have been some disabled people who had not received the offer in this country that they really would have had, if we really had to choose how we would have society if not money had been a constraint, or human resources would have been a constraint. It's not like all these stories could have been matched by the Central Party models either, so there I think in many ways that he should think a little bit more through, as I said, also the close story. So to the Workers' Party and the size of the economy. So next year there is 1,650,000 more in free income than the 2002 Labour Party budget. What is forgotten is that we have put in a rather large increase, greater increase in free income than has been done in recent years in the revised national budget, and that continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1483	Where is the Christian People's Party, where it was asked from this pulpit. I can convey that the Christian People's Party is in government and governs the country, and that we should make sure that the welfare society grows and thrives. But not all years have teen growth, some years are normal, and this is actually one of them. I also reacted very strongly to the fact that the Center Party is now distrustful of the Christian People's Party's priorities, which, according to what has been said, should mean cut, and that it is cut in the vows of disabled children in particular. I don't think so, and I suggested that this arrangement should not mean that disabled children get less services. Of course, I am concerned – I have been doing this for many years while working with municipal economy – that some municipalities are getting less investment and perhaps even cut in substantial service provision, but resource-intensive users get more in this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1490	With the assurances we received from the local government minister instead of working intensively to create a system where corporation tax will come to the municipality where production is taking place, we choose from the Coastal Party's side to convert our proposal No. 53 to a transmission proposal, with full compliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1495	Karl-Anton Swensen has converted proposal No. 53, from the Coastal Party, to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1498	I have been very restrictive in asking for the floor in this part of the debate to help ensure that the speaking time is not too long, but what provoked me to ask for the floor was the speech of the representative, Mr Rahm. He made it this way when it comes to one of the very weakest groups, namely the resource-intensive users, that the Government has followed up what has been the Storing's intention. Sorry, that is not correct. A decision in the Stortinget in the autumn of 2001 instructed the Government to promote a case of state top finance, and to submit the case to the Stortinget in the Municipal Proposition for 2003. It's not done. I therefore thought it was unimaginably bold of the representative Rahm to make the claim that he made. This is actually a group that we've neglected to help before. Neither has my party been offensive enough in that matter before. We have learned from that, and I think there is little reason to criticize when we improve our policy in this area. So also the representative Rahm said that the current government has a larger framework for the local economy than ever before. It's also wrong. I point out that last year the government of Stoltenberg proposed that the growth in total income should be DKK 3 to 3.5 billion, and that the growth in free income should be DKK 1.5 to 1.75 billion. The Bondevik government is now proposing a growth in total revenue of DKK 2–2.5 billion and a growth in free income of DKK 0.75 billion. There will be too many numbers in a long and demanding debate, but a certain minimum of correctness I thought that even the representative Rahm himself can show when he throws himself in with such a weight as he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1507	Torbjørn Andersen has had the word twice before and now gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1510	It has to be very short. After what has emerged in this debate, I would like to ask that proposal No. 35, from the Progress Party, is converted into a transmission proposal, so that this would be all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1517	Torbjørn Andersen has converted proposal No. 35, from the People's Party, to a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1520	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has had the word twice before and is now given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1523	The centre party's close history has been called upon several times in this debate. And just to make it clear: the real growth in income in the municipal sector from 1998 to 1999 amounted to between 2 and 2.5 billion kroner, and for 1998 the corresponding figure was 2 billion kroner. Then I have to correct a misunderstanding in relation to Anita Apelthun's seal. What's the big dilemma is that she's been fooled into believing that this year is a normal year. That's what's the main point, that it's not. There are exceptional pension costs, and the Council of State has confirmed that with the arrangements currently in place, they are not covered. The scheme of the government means a lower level of involvement and a lower level of ambition than a weaker group. If a letter has not been received from the vocabulary handlers who will show you where the cut will come from, they will be borrowed from the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3522]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1547	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party, Right and Advance Party 10 minutes each, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose exemptions from the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure by giving access to lines, but so that lines and answers are limited to a maximum of one minute each. It is proposed to give rise to a sequence shift of up to three one-minute increments with replies following the insertion of the main speakers for each group of lots and five one-minute increments with replies following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1558	This case intervenes in some way in local economy as well, so it is a nice follow-up to the previous case. Inner. S No 268 for 2001-2002 and St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002 is the result of the government's informed assessment of the decisions taken by the Stortingen to the spring of 2001 in Innst. S. No 307 for 2000-2001, or it might be more right to call it the "rematch" from the Government. As rapporteur of the case and from the Progress Party, it said itself that it would be difficult to bring the parties together in the Committee in a conciliation. The attitude is also somewhat influenced by the fact that the majority of the committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre largely adhere to the decisions taken by the Stortinget in the spring of 2001. The government parties naturally follow up the Government's proposals for changes. However, what all the parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, agree on, is that there should be three administrative stages, i.e. that the county should be maintained. But the principles underlying this rematch are that: Local and regional elected bodies should be responsible for tasks requiring local and regional policy discretionary state should be responsible for standardised and regulatory tasks and the control State should be responsible for tasks requiring a national holistic approach to good task solving tasks should be placed on the lowest possible effective level counties should not be developed to contribute to the reduction of red tape in the division of tasks by over-municipalities. This is not a batch that has given rise to disagreement. Rather, it shows a somewhat different interpretation of the steps needed to follow this in practice, and that is what the setting is about. What may be of differences of opinion between the different parties and constellations in the committee, I will leave to the different parties to comment. But what emerges clearly is that there are different views – a distinction – between the majority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, and the government parties and the Progress Party on the role of the county council in relation to the primary municipality, or whether the county municipality's role is to be considered a supremacy. The Committee agrees that the decisions should be taken as closely as possible to the user. But the majority, all with the exception of the Advancement Party, therefore believe that in some areas this can be attributed to the County. There are also differences here. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, believe that more tasks should be assigned to the county council, while the minority, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party share the Government's objective that many of the tasks decided upon from the county council to the county council in the spring of 2001 belong to the primary municipality, and that further tasks in the field of environmental protection and agriculture can also be transferred to the primary municipality. In terms of planning and land management, the minority, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party agree with the Government that it is necessary to wait until the work of the Planning Committee has been completed, while the majority, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, believe that a strengthening of the County Planning Authority should now take place. There is no disagreement in the Committee on the need to create a coherent and desirable social development. This applies to: increased access to valuation of labour-linked labour market-friendly service-offering-growth regions So this is where the government gets full support for the goals. But the undersigned will not go into the recipe of the different parties to achieve these goals either. I would have liked to, but again I'm leaving to the respective parties to explain it. In the case of the county that develops regionally, there is a large majority – a bit surprising, perhaps – but the Progress Party alone stands to strengthen the county municipality as a development actor. The government also proposes some experimental schemes. There is not least one testing scheme with the unit state. Here there is a large majority who not only want some or few trial schemes, but actually many. The Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party constitute a minority which will not undertake such experiments. It is also proposed to decentralise some tasks. The Committee is, in a sense, very much in agreement here. But a majority of the committee does not want this to apply to secondary schools. Now I am trying so carefully to leave the role of case rapporteur and move on to make some comments from the Progress Party. The party of progress is very surprised – especially in relation to the debate we had in the previous case – to see that we are the only party that actually sees that the county council, no matter what role it might have, will have a supremacy role. We believe that the emphasis that is being placed on the county community now has a few additional millions to drive partnerships and industrial development in the individual regions is, to put it mildly, excessively exaggerated. I haven't found the figures for the individual regions and county municipalities, but for the North Trondelag, this will be between 20 million. NOK 30 million. kr. It's not that Nord-Trøndelag gets that money today, but it's just that this time they're going to flow to the state politicians, who are going to kind of create a whole new situation in Nord-Trøndelag by making the sun shine every day, and the workplaces are going to show up in one place and another – with 30 million. kr! No, this doesn't have any faith in the Advance Party. I also have to say that whoever had to believe that there would be peace and quiet between the county councils and the primary municipalities – the role that the committee now wants – I think will have some surprises in the future. When, in addition, the majority would like to start attempts at unity, I'm very concerned. If it's the case that all the other parties, except the SV and the Progress Party, believe that this with unitary states should be so fine in terms of the relationship between the county and the county, and through that relationship with the primary municipalities, yes, they'll get some big surprises in the future. I am directly concerned when the government parties have joined the Workers' Party that this will also apply to many states. I was concerned initially when they talked about one and two states. I'm not going to say anything, but I'm wondering if any parties have an agenda here, and that this is the last cramp to preserve the county municipality. I hope, of course, that is not the purpose of this on the part of the Government, but I suspect at least the Labour Party to have such an agenda. This structure was also mentioned in the previous debate. I find it regrettable that the Committee does not place greater emphasis on exactly the structure. We have today presented figures, and it is claimed, without any proof of truth or evidence, that by merging some municipalities, one can have savings of NOK 4 billion. We can't just throw that overboard, because here both the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party will get NOK 4 billion for the services offered to the citizens by getting savings in some administrations. It is okay to concentrate on municipal cooperation, but until now, as I see it, the result has not been savings and better service provision. Finally, only one clarification: the Progress Party did not make any clarification in relation to the BU funds in the Committee. I want to signal here and now that after a thorough investigation this past week, the Progress Party will insist that the BU funds should be in SND.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1640	Shouldn't the representative Sandberg make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1643	I will, of course, address the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1648	Per Sandberg has then taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1653	First, I would like to commend the Progress Party for having thought carefully about where the BU funds should be. They have made a wise decision to make better use of BU funds, less bureaucracy in municipalities, etc. In the case of unit states, the Progress Party is very skeptical. They think it will be very difficult in the relationship between the county, the county and the primary municipalities if one is to have such an experiment. The Labour Party has great faith that this might be a good idea to try out, and we want many trials that are different, but based on a democratic form of governance. Doesn't the Progress Party believe that it will be a simplification, that there will be less bureaucracy, and that it will be that people will have one level to deal with in the county instead of more, as we have now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1662	Now it's like trying, and there's a sample of the work in almost every state that's actually still running on processes to figure out what position they're going to have, whether they're going to join up as states or what. Here, millions of dollars are used to figure out nothing! If, as the Workers' Party has now pressed forward in the Committee, attempts are to be started with several counties, a whole million dollars will be spent on trial schemes and investigations initially – just to legitimize the county council. Whether there are savings in terms of red tape remains to be seen, but what is quite clear is that if you had put down the county council, you would at least have had savings. Then one had been absolutely sure of that. What's the point here is the problem of the county council and the role of the county council. It is such that the county must be prepared for the county, and then he will get the case back in retrospect to check whether the case has been properly dealt with! It's very, very dangerous for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1671	The progress party just now clarified its vote in relation to the BU funds. According to the United Nations on 19 June, Per Sandberg himself wanted the BU funds to go to other industries as well as agriculture. For the Right, it is important that there is consistency between the tasks of the municipalities and the financial opportunities and the action rooms of the municipalities. Therefore, we believe that the BU funds should follow the tasks and be added to the municipality level. I would appreciate it if the Progress Party could clarify its views on the BU funds, and in this respect the question will be: Does the Progress Party not trust the municipal level?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1678	Let me immediately state that the Advance Party does not want BU funds. This is, however, our subsidiary position. We want to remove the BU funds. But once we've fallen down on what we've done now, I can elaborate on it by using the Nord-Trøndelag as an example. It is also the case today that some of the BU funds go to other industries, but a very large part of them go to agriculture. That's because it's part of the farm business. – So there's nothing we can do about it here at least. The situation is such that Nord-Trøndelag gets between 20 and 30 million. NOK, and if this is to be transferred to all 24 municipalities in Nord-Trøndelag, nothing will be left in the individual municipality. But then I've concluded that if one at least gets the whole pot together, it might be possible to do some power take-off someplace, so that one gets some of those funds back. I am afraid that if we are to spread this on the municipalities, it will be small money, which disappears either to an employed business developer or to the bureaucracy in the municipality itself. That's why we've concluded the way we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1688	I thought I'd say two things. One is, as Per Sandberg quite rightly says, that there has been an analysis on the table from the Statistical Central Bureau where they say that money can be saved on municipal mergers. But the report is very clear that they neither take in or analyse the impact this will have on political participation and local democracy. They say nothing about the quality and efficiency of service production, and they say nothing about travel expenses and time use related to the location of the service provision, or about many other things that are important, among other things. for us in SV. I have a question for the Progress Party that goes on this with secondary schools: Is it true that the Progress Party still wants municipalities to take over the operation of secondary schools at the closure of the county municipality, even though all educational institutions and the Education Association are against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1695	That's almost right. In our division of tasks, we put down the county council, and the tasks with which the county council is left can be allocated to primary municipalities and the state. In the case of secondary education, there are actually some urban municipalities and large municipalities with more resources and more competence than individual counties collectively do. Then it can not be difficult to allow these, the city councils and the large municipalities with their resources, to run secondary schools. I don't see anything controversial in it. With our funding in the school sector, I see no problem with the money following the student. Anyone can run schools if the students choose them themselves. It could be organisations, and it could actually be private. It's our policy in this field. The offer will also take into account the needs of the individual student, unlike those of today, that the student is forced to do so. We just had a survey in the North Throne Team. 14 pst. by the students wanted to choose school themselves, and we have to listen to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1706	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1709	Just one year ago, the Stortinget debated the division of tasks between state, county and municipality. As a basis for the debate, there was a big message from the government of Stoltenberg. A broad majority in the Stortinget set out the tasks of the regional level from 2003. A key conclusion was that the county should be strengthened. It should have a more central role as a development actor. Regional development tasks should be subject to direct popular governance. The county municipality would thus be given a clear and collective responsibility for the development of the region. It was pointed out in principle that the county office has tasks that require balancing and prioritisation between different interests and regional policy judgement and assessment. Last year's size focused on moving agricultural and environmental tasks from the county to the county. In addition, it was decided that the county plan should be strengthened. The county council as a planning board would become stronger. These were important conditions for the regional development actor to be vitalised. A broad plurality in the Stortinget was behind this policy: the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The cold was thus strained for stronger popular governance at regional level. The preparation for the new system started immediately. So the government reverses Bondevik's development. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is signalling a rematch on the policy adopted by the Stortinget in June last year. Governments want to change the policy that was adopted, and in which its party was disunity. The process ends with the submission of St. ermeld by the government of Bondevik. No 19 for 2001-2002. Despite massive protests from central state politicians from the Christian People's Party, it is the main point of view of the Right that emerges. Important industrial policy issues are removed from the county. These tasks shall be shared between the county and the municipalities. This means that parts of the agricultural activities are to be managed by the bureaucracy of the county, not by the regionally elected level. The rest of the field shall be handled by the municipalities, tasks requiring local discretion. The government's policy is to reduce the power of the elected representatives. It's obviously unfortunate. It is definitely contrary to the policy of the Christian People's Party last June. The division of agricultural tasks between the counties and the municipalities must necessarily lead to more bureaucracy. The government announces in the message that it is a goal to reduce the bureaucracy. The practical policy gives a sharp opposite result. The same tasks must be solved at two levels – partly in conflict of competence with each other, I believe! Several statesmen have stated that they need the personnel who are now working on agricultural tasks when the new system begins to operate. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has not been able to point to any reduction in bureaucracy, at least not in the short term. In addition, municipalities must strengthen the staffing of this field to do their part of the work. A similar scheme will provide a few in the field of the environment. This field is not to be handled by the county. Instead, it shall be split between the county and the municipalities. One shifts an important policy area away from exclusive political governance to being partially controlled by the bureaucracy of the county. Contrary to the decision of the Stortinget in June last year. The government's proposal leads to more bureaucracy. It is incomprehensible that the Christian People's Party can defend such a transformation in relation to the position one year ago. That tells who's in charge of the launch. The Christian People's Party is not at the wheel, obviously. The scheme proposed by the Government must be more expensive than bringing together the management of the agricultural and environmental tasks of the county. Several instances now have to deal with the same subject area. New skills must be acquired. It will require more resources. The Labour Party believes that the Government's proposal clearly weakens the popular regional level. The county loses an important tool in industrial policy. Environmental policy is also abandoned from the regionally elected level. In addition, there is no obligation to strengthen the state plan. The county must not play any important role as plan government. The government is adding to the directed winding-up of the county. Right doesn't really win out with its principal view in the message, simply to lower the regionally elected level. However, the government is taking important steps to undermine the same level. The policy has a clear direction. One will eventually achieve the result that Right wants. It will only take some extra time. The Christian People's Party has participated in this policy of the Government. Now the party also gives a clear signal for the new course in Stortinget. It is said just now that the closure of the county municipality has been updated. The Christian People's Party expresses it together with the Right Party and the Advance Party. The update has been completed. The government is diffuse when it does well for the role of the county council as a development actor. The Labour Party believes that if the county is to be an effective development operator with the necessary legitimacy, special attention must be paid to the people’s interests in the fields of employment, business, education and welfare. The business community imposes increasing requirements for competence. If industry is to expand and recruit new workers, training provision in the region needs to take much into account the requirements imposed by industry. The task of the county is to find the balance between the wishes of those who are going to take education and the needs of industry and society for labour. The same assumption must also be made for regional high-spherical services. In addition, the county council must be able to take greater responsibility for the work of Aetat. Developing skills and infrastructure will be central to the development of regions. Therefore, the developer must have his core tasks in these areas. It is not sufficient to limit the role of a development actor to manage some regional and regional policy instruments, as proposed by the Government. The government suggests that the company rights built-in development funds be managed by the municipalities. The last two years, SND has had that task. The current proposed change will lead to more red tape. One will lose synergies and lose the chance to see the effort in a larger geographical context. The funds will be largely fragmented. Therefore, the Labour Party also rejects the Government proposal at this point. The working party agrees that attempts can be made with municipal task differentiation, but with one exception: Municipal operation of continuing training is not applicable. It will reduce the size of supply built-up at regional level and will particularly affect vocational training. Of course, the Labour Party cannot accept this. The Government is largely supported by the Progress Party on the division of tasks between regional and local levels. In this case, it will take an important step towards the Right and the Progress Party’s policy: to liquidate the regionally elected level. Formally, one sticks to the county. Nevertheless, the degradation has begun too fully. The settlement is within reach, and that with the help of the Christian People's Party. I would like to take up the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1753	The representative, Mr. Reidar Sandal, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1758	Is there any desire to undermine the legitimacy of the county council towards the municipalities that make the Workers' Party want to assign environmental and agricultural tasks to the county council and not to the primary municipalities? Or is it an overcommunal Workers' Party that wants the county to continue to be in many areas? Is it the lack of confidence in local politicians in this country that the Workers' Party does not support the principle of subsidiarity that decisions should be taken as closely as possible. Is there this lack of confidence that the Workers' Party is terrified of pilot schemes with municipal secondary schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1763	When the Labour Party at all does not accept that it should be municipal operation of continuing training, it is precisely because we want to be vigilant about the differentiated and broad supply we have in this field, a supply that is developed in close cooperation with industry in relation to the needs of industry for the years to come. Of course, the Labour Party does not want the county council to be an over-municipality, but I would say to the representative Gitmark that I do not accept the idea that the county municipality has the character of a over-municipality, as he indicates. I believe that most people and local politicians do not experience the county as an over-municipality. To the extent that we talk about an over-communist state, it is probably the bureaucracy of the state that has that role.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1770	The representative Sandal indicated that this was the starting point for the construction of the county municipality. Of course I hope so, but I'm not as convinced as Sandal is. I would like the representative Sandal to explain to me why the Workers' Party has such an interest in attempts at unity. Initially, it was about an experiment in one or maybe two states. Now the Workers' Party is the most intense champion to get a lot of such attempts. Is it the case that the Workers' Party sees attempted unity as a counterweight to what they fear, the reduction of the county council? Is this in any way a last straw to preserve the county, possibly to strengthen the county for further existence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1777	The working party wants to test the unity state and major government at that point. We believe that this attempt can give us new knowledge that, in the next round of hope, can result in a reduced bureaucracy, that we use less resources at regional level for administration and more resources for service production. I would also say that such an attempt might also help us to revitalise the political level at regional level, because we are getting closer links between those who are now the state, the heavy player, and those who are the county operator. I actually think here's an efficiency gain to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1784	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and SV are united on a proposal where we try to raise our eyes a little bit and see how we can create a third popularly elected level, a regionally elected level, which can drive the development of democracy and business policy and create good districts and a well-functioning Norway. But I would like to say that it is not the government's changed view of the transfers of the environmental and agricultural departments in connection with this message that is in some way the big shot for the bay of the county. This process was started by the Working Party. It's the Workers' Party that has brought us into this situation, by lifting the hospitals, which was the most important state with which to move next to the secondary schools, out of the county. The Labour Party has been running a restructuring of all state agencies, so that social security, health and transport are gone. This responsibility must be shared by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1789	It is little interesting to discuss the matter that the representative Holmås now suggests to debate, namely who should be hospital owners in this country. In this room, it's already determined how it's going to be, and we have to stick to it, no matter what kind of position we've had. What's joyous, and what's right for the future, is that a majority in the municipal committee are looking at new developments, new important issues to work on at the political level in the different regions. I think it's the way we don't have too many politicians in our society. We'd rather have too few. That's why the Labour Party believes that we should have three levels of management, and we need important tasks for these people that they can care for in their political work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1797	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1800	In the light of the Sem Declaration, the Government has re-assessed the division of tasks between municipality, county and state. In relation to how the public is to solve its tasks, two words are essential to me: identity and belonging. It is in relation to the local environment that our inhabitants feel first and foremost belonging and have their identity. It's the local environment that, for most people, means the most. Local services, local involvement and local decisions are the main concerns of our citizens. This is where their identity is anchored. This is precisely why the right is committed to strengthening the local level of administration. That is why we say that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned. Proximity, identity and belonging are the keywords. Storing message No. 31 for 2000–2001, better known as the task-sharing notification, was largely a state-owned community reform. With the change of government came the Sem declaration, and the county municipality was to be strengthened as a regional development actor. The division of tasks was determined as follows: the tasks must be clarified better, the bureaucracy reduced, the county council should not be an over-municipality. Against this background, the Government in November 2001 said that it would assess the tasks of the county council in the light of the Sem Declaration, and the Government’s assessment would be mainly related to the planned changes in the environment, agriculture, planning and land management. The right is well pleased that there is a majority in this Chamber to support the Government's main principles for the division of tasks. The message we are now discussing is much greater than the previous one, a municipal reform. It proposes several tasks at municipal level. Strengthening local democracy requires major reforms and a strong decentralisation of power to the local level. Unlike the Stoltenberg Government, the Cooperative Government will transfer the agricultural and environmental tasks to the municipalities. Tasks requiring local government discretion must be transferred to the primary municipalities. This will lead to less bureaucracy, and no more. Simplification and improved resource disposal are also prerequisites. Environmental and agricultural matters are not specific development tasks necessary for the county to be a regional development actor. If tasks requiring local government discretion are transferred to the county councils, as both the Workers' Party and SV wish, these tasks will give the county council a character of over-municipality. We agree with the Government that the county municipality should not be developed into a supremacy. It's unfortunate to break the principle that the two levels should be equal. The Authority and the tasks assigned to the two levels must be complementary, not overlapping. Granting over-municipal authority to the county may help undermine the legitimacy of the municipalities and thus weaken the main and most central body of local democracy. Just that would be a huge loss for the Norwegian People's Government. We very much regret that the Labour Party does not share the same views. No local government should notice and reflect on the position of this party in this matter. We don't want to take a stand on the plan and the land management. The Government is supported to await the termination of the Plan Law Committee at the end of 2002. We recognise that land management is of great importance to each municipality, and we know that the experience with county planning is far from positive. At both municipal and county level, opinions on these tasks are strong. It is therefore amazing that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre will not wait to take a stand until everyone has been heard. Democracy is probably weaker than expected, because these parties are already establishing that the county municipality is going to have these tasks. The hearing bodies do not have to wait for these parties. It is a broad political majority that supports the county as a regional development actor and that the county council should be given increased authority in the management of regional and regional policy instruments. The county municipality shall be an important partner for business, municipalities and regional government authorities, and the county municipality should play a central role in the regional partnership. In the right, we emphasise that county councils are given an extended space for action, and we have great confidence that county councils are using this space to develop their leadership role in the regional partnership. We're opening up trials in two areas, and I'm glad that these two areas get a majority, both task differentiation and unitary, because well-tested trials can provide us with a good assessment basis. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal that the right-wing rapporteur is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1823	The representative Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1828	In the setting, the Right has joined the Workers' Party's remark that a number of device state tests should be started in order to gain the widest possible experience with a new model. It will now be a majority to impose an order on the Government. In the past, the Right Council has stated that only a few attempts should be made. Has the Right Change in Position in This Matter? The Government proposes that the Structural Development Funds, which are currently managed by the SND, be transferred to the municipalities. Here we're talking about 450 million. NOK to be broken down into 435 municipalities. Municipalities have greatly reduced their competence in this area, and it will be absolutely necessary to donate large amounts to municipalities only in order to rebuild their competence. What is it that makes the Right, which is so opposed to having bureaucratic solutions, are in favour of such a solution to this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1835	The right is to open up two trials and a wider trial if desired in the unit state. All trials are initially voluntary. They are limited to a certain number of years, and I am not afraid that this should be anything negative in the matter. On the contrary, I think it is very interesting with the trials to be carried out, when we now have the agricultural and environmental tasks transferred to the municipal level. If we could then have successful attempts at the unit state combined with the county, this will lead to further red tape, so I think it might be worth trying. In the case of the BU funds, the Right sees it as perfectly natural that these are included at local level. Now, for the autumn, we are going to assess the mechanism, and things can be seen in context. It is clear that reform, like the one we are currently in, will have consequences in the long term, and we will have new tasks to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1844	Very well known, the right programming party has to shut down the county. This setting does not give a lot of expression to this setting. A year ago, the representative Holmberg did not sit in the municipal committee, but it did the Council of State today. And in connection with Innst. S. No 307 for 2000-2001 a whole set of joint comments had been submitted from the Progress Party and the Right. There were also a lot of proposals on which the Right and the Advance Party were united. Many of the same comments are in the Inner East. S. No 268, which we are dealing with here today, and many of the same proposals are in the Inner East. S. No 268, which we are dealing with here today. My question to the representative is: Is it now that the Right has left its programme and in the next year's election campaign – in relation to the municipal and county elections – will appear as the main defender of the county council, as the Right now goes in to protect the county council for many, many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1853	The right has not changed its application. We still stand for what we have done, but as the representative knows, we now have a new government. There is a Sem statement, and we are loyal to that Sem statement. So it's the way the world changes. Our society is changing too. We see in many areas that Europe's regions are key factors. We also depend on being able to relate to Europe and the regions. That is exactly why I think it is interesting with the county municipality as a regional development operator.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1860	The right is horribly concerned about the over-municipal problem. It's not me. I think it may be quite right in some contexts that a popular regional level should have decision-making powers in some areas that are located there and that are of a regional nature, even though the municipalities are initially the ones that have authority. An example of this can be done, for example: be what we were talking to Rogaland about – this county plan for the North-Jear, which has worked in an excellent way, where the county municipality has had a role. If you're worried about this with a supremacy, it's completely "crazy" by the government to propose a unitary state. If there is something that is a collusion of control tasks and problems related to legitimacy and elected decisions, then it must be unitary. I'd like to hear how you can avoid people mixing this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1869	I don't think Heikki Holmås has understood what is in the Government's message about the unit state. We transfer the agricultural and environmental tasks to the municipality. The county council is left with the control tasks. So this is a clearing process and a red tape process. The over-municipal problem seems to me to be quite real. For us, it's important with proximity and identity. It knows best where the shoe prints, which has it on it, it's called in a vocabulary. Therefore, important decisions to be made on the basis of political judgement should be taken where the residents live, where the identity is located. It's very central to developing a well-functioning society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1876	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1879	It would have been eel-ridden if Kari Lise Holmberg could have answered my question. I asked about the collusion of the political decisions in the elected body of the county council, and the control tasks of the county council. If you put this together under common administration, how are you going to be able to separate them? The representative will probably be able to answer this question later. There is one reason why this matter is being dealt with here today, and it is that the Christian People's Party has voluntarily surrendered to the Right and is sitting as a hostage when the future of its municipalities and county councils is to be determined. A party that has in its programme that they will fight for the regional level is included and writes the following on page 6 of the setting: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party further indicate that changes in government policy have, in recent years, updated the closure of the county municipality as an independent level of government.’ It makes me fool, because government policy is not just happening, it's decided by the Storting. It's only when the Christian People's Party forms part of the majority that is not interested in creating a functioning regional democracy that the rest of the right side gets a say in governing the county against a safe death. I'm not going to spend my time now talking about county agricultural government or the right of objection to the environmental department, but rather addressing what SV thinks is the core of the debate on a third elected level, namely democracy, democracy in the meaning of democracy. SV believes that the decline in electoral participation, the deterioration of the economy of municipalities and counties, the decline in the number of local politicians, the transfer of tasks to the state and the scepticism of politicians are closely linked. It is the SV's clear view that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those to which they relate. This means that municipalities need to strengthen the economy and responsibility for more tasks than they have today. For example, they can be strengthened by an own housing law, and we can consider giving more transport tasks to the largest municipalities and giving them greater freedom to tax. In short, it means that power is transferred from a government agency, from more or less closed boardrooms in health enterprises or other enterprises, and from central government and enlargement to local or regional elected bodies. The problem is that when the Government in this Communication announces a guided winding-up of the regionally elected level, the possibility of some decisions being added to a regionally elected level is completely eliminated. Then we have to build up a big, state bureaucracy instead. I couldn't imagine in my wildest dreams that the Right Modernisation project would initially be about replacing local and regional bureaucracy with a government one, but that's the direction we're going. It is significant that the Government, when setting its objectives for the modernisation work, does not mention democracy and civil rights. When merging municipalities, the needs for efficiency and a simpler society are mentioned, but not the need for democracy. SV will have a regionally elected level, because we think we will achieve more democracy in that way. The government is turning Norway into a different country in the European context. In the Europe of the Regions, the strengthening of regional democracy and the strengthening of regional responsibilities for the development of business, jobs, infrastructure and transport services, as well as the development of competences that are consistently placed on the agenda, the development of democracy and the real release of power from national levels are just ahead. There are probably many people who find it strange that SV is more willing to learn from the EU than a Right Council of States, but as long as we develop democracy, it is the right way for us to go. When you listen to big-time representatives from the pulpit, sometimes it sounds as if people in the counties are sitting in peace and being chased out by evolution, but it's completely wrong. Around the whole country, there is a great deal of work to be done for the development of larger counties to carry out the tasks of regional developers – visions for the expansion of democracy. Then we have to confirm that this is very good. Here you will get more government tasks that you can do. That is why, together with the Labour Party, we have made a proposal to that effect. When we are in favour of a development in which more and more of the state agencies are regionalised, such as the transport offices, hospitals, the social security system and the Aetat, we have done this without looking at how we could anchor this democratically. We now believe that it is important to try to do something about it, and that is why, as I said, we are promoting – together with the Labour Party – a proposal that implies exactly that. I am somewhat glad that the government parties do not support this proposal on major states, because it is entirely in line with the proposal of the Task Distribution Committee on fewer states and more responsibility. I think they can come up with arguments to respond to our good proposals. We need to raise our eyes and see how we want to deal with regional democracy, and then the government has to be there to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1900	The working party and SV agree in many areas with regard to the setting we are currently handling. But in one area, we're completely in disagreement, and that's the unit state, where SV goes along with the Progress Party. When the representative, Holmås, says that we have to try to find models that do not reduce the turnout, that it is necessary to transfer tasks to the state, and that SV will not be able to participate in a guided winding-up of the elected level, we in the Workers' Party will not be able to follow the path of thought. We believe that a unitary group would be able to attend to many of the points highlighted by the representative in his contributions. Isn't it true that if we get to a unitary state, we can meet a lot of the challenges that the representative argues for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1907	Shall Heikki Holmås bring up any suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1910	Yes, I can start by discussing the proposals where SV is a co-sponsor. I don't understand how Signe Øyes' arguments related to this with a team member relate to what I said. A unitary state is in a way a freak of a democratic model, for it means that the chief executive of the administration, the county council, shall be the head of a county council, and shall then be the one who carries out, for example, the legality check of decisions taken in the county council. I don't understand how this can lead to any clarity in relation to these problems. Nor do I believe that it will help to raise the issues and help to get more tasks transferred to the county level. I therefore believe that it is not right to go in the direction of a unitary party, and then I think we might as well say no to attempts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1919	Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1922	I mean that SV's endings aren't always quite logical, because how can the Christian People's Party be a hostage to the Right when the Right receives packaging from the Advance Party to go away from its program and its previous position? I'm glad that SV, like the Christian People's Party, is occupied by popular government and the principle of proximity. But then I wonder that SV is so afraid that the agricultural and environmental tasks will be added to the municipality level. Here our municipalities actually have the power to control the foundations, the care of the elderly, the protection of the children, the planning of the land, etc. Why would they not be able to take care of agriculture and the environment all day?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1929	I am convinced that the municipalities will certainly make a good effort in relation to the tasks of agriculture and the environment. The point is that if we want to develop the state as an engine in relation to regional thinking and business, then it's quite natural that environmental and agricultural aspects also come into play. The Communication makes it clear that a significant part of the tasks of the Environmental Protection and Agriculture Department is planned work. And if we're going to be able to maintain a stronger development of the county plan, as many of the other parties want, we need that competence at state level. Several of the other parties also want a stronger state plan, but when the government doesn't want to, I understand that they want to push all of this down to the municipal level instead, because then you don't need that county competence. That's why I say this is a guided winding-up. The government is not willing to enter into the competences needed to carry out the regional development tasks, and it is the leaders of the Christian People's Party and is watching.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1936	The Central Party, SV and the Working Party are constantly united in this setting. A year ago there was another party that stood for the same view, simply the Christian People's Party. Now they are divers in their right arms, and follow their right wing. I noticed that Holmås came here with important counter-representations in relation to the report that has become known today, and that he owed savings as a result of municipal mergers. There's a point in the option that I'm wondering when it applies to SV. That's the commitment they have to larger states. You must be aware that many of the processes currently running have been suspended. Why, then, is this exposure in the direction of larger states?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1945	I had hoped that I would be able to engage Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa also in relation to this with larger counties. It's because this is the initiative taken by central party people and others around the counties as a consequence of the Task Distribution Committee's attitude, where one says that one looks at a structure with between 10 and 15 counties. If there is to be any hope whatsoever of being able to transfer more government tasks to the counties – because we see that there is no majority for it in this room, as the counties are today – then one has to gather around larger counties, which can gain more power compared to depriving the state of tasks related to, for example: what is most important in local democracy, namely issues relating to transport, roads and road structures. Having bigger counties can be one way to go. That's why what we're proposing to try on this, but it shouldn't be something we're stepping down on the county councils. It must be on the initiative that comes from them. The reason why it's braked up there now is that the government has gone out and said, "Wait with everything!"
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-20.ana.ud2222e1952	The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
