ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e57	They called for alternates, for Nordland County May-Anne Brand and for North Trondelag County Jon Olav Alstad, have taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Berit Brørby from 21 May onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on the welfare leave of the representative Sigrun Eng from 22 May onwards and until further notice from the representative Bent Höie on leave from 22 May until 23 May to take part in the meeting of the Council of Europe Social Committee in Bucuresti On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office:For the County of Buskerud: Martin KolbergFor Uppland County: Reidun GravdahlFor Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad 3rd@item: inlistbox Martin Kolberg is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Sigrun Eng.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e112	Reidun Gravdahl is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e117	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e122	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e127	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today. The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e132	I would like to put forward, on behalf of the major representatives of Thore A. Nistad, Øystein Hedstrøm, Henrik Rød, Morten Højlund, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Per Ove Wideth, Per Erik Monsen, John I. Alvheim, Torbjørn Andersen and myself, proposals for progress in the development of E6/E18 from Svinesund/Ørje via Oslo to Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e137	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e151	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e160	It is positive that the Government is now continuing to focus on what we call IT policy. Of course, I fully agree with the Council of State when he points to the challenges of getting better health care, a better school, a more modern public sector and not least a more knowledge-based and forward-looking business. When the Council of State then claims that the government's IT policy should in particular exploit the interaction between content, infrastructure and competence, I expect it to be followed up with more concrete measures and plans to achieve these objectives. Here the Government is not entirely online. To take the area of competence first, there was nothing in this statement that gave us any answer as to how to achieve broadband for all schools, a strategy that will once again help to increase competence through distance learning and other ways. It has not been long since this field was dealt with in each department without an overall strategy in relation to the development of services and content. It took hold of the Workers' Party and got it lifted up on the political case map. That led us to a number of areas. Nevertheless, there is no reason to believe that this is enough. What becomes the challenge is that there are too many departments with bits of a national IT strategy. Let me just briefly sum up a little bit: 1st@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Economic Affairs is promoting the presentation that is now to be debated, so the eNorway plans. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Justice has the TETRA project with an investment need of DKK 5 billion, which cannot provide high-speed data. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Transport has its own notification of mobile services. 4th@item: inlistbox The same department is responsible for expanding GSM-R networks for trains, with costs of SEK 1.2 billion, which can send high-speed data. 5th@item: inlistbox The government will continue HØYKOM – a system aimed at schools, hospitals, municipalities and libraries. But where is the targeted strategy in such a broad programme? This also creates difficulties here in Stortinget, because IT is dealt with piece by piece and divided into different committees. If we don't solve this, we can quickly be left out in an important international development where we have gradually become leaders both in the use of PCs and mobile services. The policy developed up to 2001 needs to continue as the private market dries up. I miss a more ambitious policy here. The government will not do enough. We have constantly compared ourselves with the European Union and wanted to be in front of them. Now the government seems clearly that it is appropriate to be just as good. In Norway, we have a number of factors that make us look worse, not least geography, but that can be balanced by the fact that the state and the public take more responsibility. In the media, the focus was on dotcom companies for a long time. I think it's okay that we don't base our policy on them, but on what we've always been good at past time divisions, infrastructure, education and research, and to stimulate the use of new opportunities. In the wake of such a strategy, companies and dotcom companies that have the right to life will also develop. A prerequisite for using new technologies is to have access to it. The aim of the Workers’ Party has been to ensure that all of them have access during 2004 and that it is a public responsibility, including in the districts. So it was possible to do this in an interaction with the private when there was capital and the willingness to invest. It probably disappeared in many ways with the decline of last year. Then we have to find new ways to do it, and the solution is not to go away from those goals, as the Government is now doing. The Labour Party still believes that demand will stimulate development in many places and that public opinion will be crucial to creating that demand. Then it'll be someplace too small. Then the state has to take the same responsibility as for other infrastructure, but at the same time have a realistic view of what broadband really is. Therefore, I also believe that we should look at the possibilities of a national fibre optics core network for important public communications, not least for schools, hospitals and other health sectors. Now we have the opportunity through a state-owned company that covers the whole country, all the way up to Nord-Troms. Based on Bane Tele, a State company responsible for the public's need for safe communications can be established. I'm assuming that it's going to be further worked on, to identify the possibilities. It can form the basis for broadband for the whole country at reasonable prices. Studies carried out in the EU show that technology can deliver efficiency improvements in some services of more than 90 pst. I'm not going to cancel out what it means for faster and cheaper administration. Most people understand that. But there has to be some grip to get there. I'm sure the presentation contained a lot of pilots and experiments. Now it's time to take a broad lift in this area. When we find that every bank has all the data about us recorded, it is hopeless to have to run even between public offices to move the same information between agencies. I miss the focus the Labour Party government had on this area. It is an area in which, of course, some testing and failure may occur, not all of which will strike internal paths, and many will disagree with the measures proposed. This must be the case if we're going to be in the lead. The alternative is to come last when everything is tested, but we have common goals of being more offensive than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e211	Think 20 years ahead in time. Is there anyone who thinks that production and settlement in Hardanger is only linked to agriculture? Is there anyone who believes that the settlement in East Finland is linked to the ore fractures? What we see now is the contours of, and as politicians we have to take seriously, is something completely different, and the keyword is new communication. From a PC, a journalist, a secretary, a politician and a market manager can do their work from a completely different location from the one they work for. The youth at Finnish University can take a useful course and follow the teaching at all national colleges and universities, via their PC. Today, a market manager in Oslo can communicate in real time with the market leader in Sweden. A threat to the airlines? Perhaps, but a great opportunity for a country made up of districts. In medicine, it is now possible to carry out some complex operations where the performing surgeon is located completely different from the patient. And through advanced data management systems, it's not only possible to drive fun vehicles on the surface of Mars. It's actually possible to control most processes on our own planet. These driving forces will be very strong and decisive for the development of production and settlement in the time to come. Until now, we've just let ourselves tear, to see what's coming. It is probably wiser to aim at the powerful opportunities that lie there to achieve the objectives and ideals of the Norwegian welfare society. Many have already seen that this new technology creates unique opportunities for decentralised production and exciting opportunities for districts. It's been a long time since the corner stone company had its heyday. Most of us have come to realize that small and medium-sized enterprises mainly maintain the pattern of housing and production. By investing in ICT, these companies can get completely different conditions and become important supporters to achieve our goal of revitalising the districts. For ICT is not just technology, there are also enormous opportunities to achieve old policy goals. Perhaps we have never been closer to maintaining a fairly scattered settlement in this country? As the Minister of Industry mentioned in his statement, the use of IT could reduce distance disadvantages and allow business to compete independently of distances to markets. I would therefore commend the Minister of Industry for his IT policy statement. The time for dreams and visions is not over, but while you have visions, you have to have realistic targets. It presented the Gabrielsen government council. If we are to achieve the goal we have set ourselves, we need to take concrete measures such as electronic signature, digitisation of public content, use of ICT as tools for modernising the public sector, etc. There has been a broad consensus in the Storting that it is the market that will attract demand for broadband. Unfortunately, we have seen that the market has not developed as quickly as we thought, and that market players have no ability or willingness to finance the deployment of broadband services. If we are to increase demand and offer this type of service, it is important that public enterprises actively demand broadband. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, it will allow public agencies to provide a better supply to the population. The fact that as many as 524 000 Nordics chose to deliver their tax returns via the Internet shows that people are active users of IT, and that in the future they will benefit greatly from a good online offer from the public. The second is that increased demand from public agencies will speed up the development of broadband services across the country. This in turn means that both individuals and not least businesses will be able to connect to the new network. It is incredibly important that we get education and competence building in the IT field. Therefore, it is important that we focus strongly on the need for all schools to have broadband connectivity. In Hordaland, there is a power company that has been assigned to build broadband for all secondary schools in the state. Once this work is completed, it will be easier to count the number of municipalities that do not have access than the number that have access. This provides enormous opportunities for businesses and other public agencies in municipalities. Betting that all states will do the same thing as Hordaland will be a big step forward in offering all the country's municipalities broadband. I believe that the statement shows that the government is finally acting by investing in the areas of real monasteries, namely investing in a modern public sector that is actively looking for services in IT, and by investing in all schools, libraries and municipal administrations being offered broadband connectivity by 2005. I hope the Government will continue this effort in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e232	The Minister of Industry and Trade started his presentation by pointing out how the EU is setting up IT through the Lisbon Strategy and the eEurope Action Plan to achieve key objectives for societal development and economic growth. The ‘eEurope — An Information Society for All’ plan was fully endorsed by the Member States. Why? Well, in the world economy, the dominance of traditional industry must give way to a new set of rules, the rules of the information society. The Commission has long recognised the importance of rapidly entering the digital age and taking advantage of the new opportunities, and not least: it no longer wants to become competitive in its relationship with the United States, because it has far more power to convert the new technology into productivity growth than in Europe. The U.S. central bank manager Alan Greenspan has often recalled how investment in productivity-enhancing technology has increased productivity in American society so strongly that it counteracts inflationary pressures created by increased consumption. Business Week has estimated that the high-tech industry contributed to inflation by minus 5 pst. that these industries created a direct indirect deflation effect, which helped to reduce total inflation in the United States. With all the positive results and experience gained, it is important that Norway also knows its visitation time. We need to use the necessary tools to make Norway claim to be an IT nation. One of the main challenges it faces in this respect is the renewal of the public sector. How can we exploit new technological solutions that make AS Norway cheaper to run? This is very important because the costs of a bulky public sector burden the competitiveness of value-creating businesses. The growth of the public sector and the centralisation of society have created a number of economies of scale in terms of red tape, cost growth and increasing distance between the decision-maker and those involved. Here, information technology can serve as a valuable tool to address such disadvantages. The aim must be to break down the hierarchies and to organise co-operation solutions in networks, improve public service provision for the population and achieve increased cost-effectiveness. It is a fact that Norwegian business does not have the power to use information technology to enhance competitiveness in line with some other Western countries. A prerequisite for success is that industry is given a good framework. Standardisation of cross-border tax regimes is an important element in this. In the last ten years, we have few examples of successful knowledge establishments remaining in Norway. Some of the main problems lie in property taxes and option taxes. We need to be aware that the competitors we indirectly participate in building up abroad through the investment of the oil fund, arrange their share options independently of Norwegian taxation, and also do not pay their property tax on placements in Norway. This makes it particularly important to have both pay and tax conditions that enable the best enterprises and the advanced workforce to remain in Norway. Broadband expansion is proving to take longer, both in Norway and some other western countries, than what was calculated, and there are several reasons for it. The Progress Party agrees with the Government that the market should address and take decisions on investments in broadband infrastructure as far as possible. Competition and demand must be important elements to manage the development of broadband infrastructure. In this way, the cost to users does not exceed what is strictly necessary. Furthermore, it is positive that the Government will stimulate early demand through schools, modernising the public sector and other measures within the framework of EU legislation. It is important to keep pace and use a range of instruments both in terms of demand stimulation and framework conditions that encourage the deployment of the broadband network. How the Government will handle this has not been thoroughly clarified in the statement. The Progress Party considers it important to be offensive in this area and will support a Document No. Eight proposals in the Committee that the Stortinget should be presented with its own case on broadband policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e255	ICT characterizes our lives today, and no one needs to be a fortune-teller to see that it will also shape our lives in the future. ICT policy, on the other hand, does not characterise the work of the Stortinge. There are hardly any parties that have any prestige to be allowed to be ICT-political spokesperson. Nevertheless, it is a more important and important policy area, where we need to take some major action, which I do not think the statement to the Minister showed that it has been done. The first thing I want to do is go to school. We know today, from among others. studies carried out by the STEP Group, that many industries attract ICT competence, and that during the 1990s it has proved to be a sign of health that both the oil, machinery, industry and especially the consultancy industry have become rather IT heavy. The fact that people with IT skills are moving towards capitalist industries is therefore neither illogical nor anticipatory. At the same time, studies from the STEP Group show that one of the most important arenas, namely the school, has had a net decline in IT graduates throughout the 1990s. There is thus currently a clear loser in IT policy. It's the schools, and we know why. A payroll spiral, where the public has to lose, has marked the recruitment image throughout the 1990s. To put it plainly: Many IT professionals are in Norway today programming cell phone logos that they sell to 10 kroner, while schools are screaming for teachers who know how to IT. It is poor and low-future industrial policy. In ten years from today, there are many fewer people who can IT than if the schools today had had access to as many qualified IT teachers as they need. Against this background, the Government should have as a minimum the minimum objective of establishing a recruitment plan for IT-qualified teachers in schools. It would have been something that would also have been good for the business of the future. The government could also have had a minimum ambition to increase the number of students taking longer IT education. The business community wants what we want, and the government should also think that this is a good business policy goal. The government's statement about IT is thin, and I think it's strange when the Minister of Industry sometimes calls himself an IT minister, because it's clear from the statement that it's the market and not the minister who's going to take the most important and most important steps for the future. In fact, contrary to all other infrastructure, it must be up to the market to develop precisely the digital infrastructure. And when you listen to the Gabrielsen State Council, you might be tempted to think that it's going to be, that the traditional infrastructure, like road and electricity, is going to be a government task, while the future infrastructure is going to take care of the market. In the ownership message, the government wants to sell as a primary act rather than doing well what we already own. It's not always that it's a lurking strategy. Neither the ownership message nor the IT policy statement dares Gabrielsen to address the problem we have today that the nationwide digital network in Norway belongs to a private, former state, monopoly, Telenor. The irony is that the business community itself calls upon the government council, Gabrielsen, that Telenor takes advantage of his position as a private monopolist, while the state council, as the state's owner's representative, does not lift a finger to do anything about the problem. SV has pointed out earlier – and will now also emphasise on this basis – that the Government should have had the ambition to separate the Telenor network from one company that it purchased, as Statnett is organised outside State power. Finally, IT is what we want it to be, and IT can be used to create the society we want to create. On that basis, there is little vision in the IT statement. There are no visions of the green knowledge society, where knowledge can replace energy and other raw material-heavy inputs. There are no green visions of value creation based on knowledge. While the countries around us are talking about the environment, talking about design, talking about culture and talking about value creation based on this, these are the absent words in the presentation. We are deeply sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e270	Investment in the development of IT in Norway is important, not because the technology is a goal in itself, but because IT technology gives us so many possibilities. Technological developments are moving rapidly. It may be demanding to hang out with. If we just go back a few years and see how much has happened in a few years, it's not hard to conclude that the IT development of many people has already created a revolution. Of course, the Christian People's Party is not content with just looking at what you've achieved. It is important that we continue to focus on innovation and accessibility. The co-operation administration has presented a plan, eNorway 2005, which outlines three overarching objectives for IT policy: value creation in business efficiency and quality in public sector participation and identity The development and use of information technologies shall contribute to value creation through increased innovation and competitiveness in Norwegian business. Many businesses in the districts have found that distance constraints have been greatly reduced because the use of IT has given new opportunities. The development of ICT and broadband technologies can be particularly important for the further development of our rural policy. Information technologies shall be used to streamline the public sector and provide users with new and better services. Here is a great potential and new possibilities. Everyone should be able to exploit the potential of information technology, and IT should help to preserve and further develop our cultural heritage, identity and languages. Too many children and young people have a new value opening up in the use of IT. They've gained new knowledge and new ways of learning. Overall, there are increasing numbers of users of IT. It is important to ensure as many opportunities as possible to use electronic services. We have to avoid the degree of access to data becoming a new class distinction in our country. Libraries and schools have an important role to play in providing both IT access and training. I am pleased that the Minister of Industry also addressed the challenges to our language in the distribution. In many areas of information technology, English is very useful. It's a challenge to take care of the public language and the forms of goals in Norway. It's e.g. important that those who want to use new technologies do not become the losers in this terrain. In 2001, the Christian People's Party presented «Innovation Action Package – ICT as an Engine». Here we see ICT in an innovation and value creation perspective. Christian People's Party goes among others in order to increase the rights of research to the average OECD level, and ICT shall be of high priority. This is also the government's policy. The Christian People's Party is busy strengthening the work of a simpler Norway, a work center government started up, and the cooperation government is giving high priority to it. It is important to bring down the business form field and make everyday life easier for business. The fiscally favourable Home PC scheme is now secure. These are measures that stimulate more people to acquire PC equipment. These measures will strengthen and not liquidate the Government, as the Stoltenberg government has provided. Broadband networks and services are an important element in achieving the productivity gains of IT and in achieving important policy objectives in many areas of society. There are increasing numbers of people who want and demand higher speed and broadband capacity, and there are major challenges. There's a lot of costs in getting the broadband network available to anyone who wants it. The government will ensure competition in the market and stimulate development by being an active demand for broadband and broadband services to meet the needs of modern public administration. The purpose of the cooperative government is to provide a good market for broadband in all parts of the country. During 2005, all basic schools, public libraries and municipal administrations will be offered broadband access at a competitive price. By the end of 2003, all secondary schools shall have such facilities. Furthermore, all hospitals shall have broadband connection in the health service during the year. In parallel with the expansion of these institutions, the broadband network will also be available for households in the areas where it is being replaced. In areas where there is no commercial basis for development, the Government will consider putting in place specific measures. The demand for and use of new electronic services is increasing. There is a great potential for developing and implementing new services and products. And as the Minister of Industry expressed it in the distribution: ‘We must ensure good framework conditions for Norwegian industry to exploit the network’s potential, from software development to e-commerce’. Finally, in order to achieve a good business life in the future, good framework conditions are important. A good and offensive IT policy is an important contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e316	IT policy can in many ways be crucial to how the modernisation of Norwegian society will take place. Many of those who have been on the pulpit today have a common desire, at least we mention a lot of the same things. We see a lot of opportunities, not least in terms of district policy and not least in terms of reducing the distance disadvantages. Then we also have to ask ourselves, how are we going to achieve that? What are the necessary instruments to be used? What characterizes the image so far is that the Nordics are good at using mobile services, PCs and the Internet. But we are lagging behind in the development and development of the technology itself. As a result, we also lose opportunities and drive to exploit technology to take advantage of commercial gains. The centre party believes that we do not get away with one of the main reasons for this is that broadband expansion is today at stake. None of the objectives set by the Labour Party Government in its action plan have been met for some time, nor will they be met. The problem is that without demand, there will be no further offers, and without offers, there will be no greater demand. Therefore, the first bid in relation to the wishes we are promoting today in the main hall is the need to add an infrastructure that is accessible to everyone at an affordable price. A country such as Norway must seek leadership in those areas where we can help determine the development of industrial policy. Unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer areas where this is the case, but this is such an area. This is an area in which Norway, as a country, can facilitate a development that gives us a competitive advantage as a society. Norway must take advantage of this. But then we also have to apply a completely different broadband policy than what we have done so far. The State must also ensure that the infrastructure is made available to all at affordable prices. It is an illusion to think that customers come before the store is built. Today it is that over 65 pst. of the municipalities do not have a single school with broadband, and more than half of the municipalities have no plan for how and when to implement broadband for schools. If the Government is to achieve its goal of providing broadband for all schools by 2005, there is a great deal to be done to speed up development. It is so good and positive that you make a guide to the municipalities about how they can use broadband – I think many of the municipalities know how to use it and also want to do it – but they do not have the opportunity to pay what it costs to get that access. They don't have the opportunity to be the desire that the state wants them to be. And we have to do something about that. Tax deductions for the use of PCs at home are isolated as a good scheme, but it is also a scheme that benefits them in the first place, which already has access to broadband services. The whole point of a good and sensible development of IT policy in the future is therefore that the infrastructure is put in place. Without doing so, such a tax system would be primarily a system for those who happen to live on the right side, to put it that way. Today, we see that the price differences are very large in terms of access to infrastructure. For an enterprise that will rent a broadband line of approx. 2 MB, the price differences can be fantastic. For a company in Oslo, this may cost NOK 3000 to 4000, while in Namdalen in Nord-Trøndelag it will cost approximately NOK 30 000. Nor is it a development that we can accept if we want this technology to contribute to a competitive advantage for the entire Norwegian community. If one is to achieve the objectives that many of us here today want, the Central Party sees that it is not sufficient for the State to be only an active demander and that specific measures need to be considered. We have to get further. Society must be more ambitious in achieving all the objectives we set for IT policy. When the Government is now evaluating the status of the IT policy action plan and of broadband development at the end of 2002, as referred to in the presentation, there should be an excellent opportunity to return to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis for the entire broadband policy. In this context, I would like to remind the Government of the decision on the roll-out that was taken just a few weeks ago, that the bulk of the population is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Storting to develop broadband networks in areas where the market cannot handle that expansion. With a case of broadband policy in Stortinget, we will also be able to review the framework conditions that exist, whether there are subsidies, taxes, taxes or other schemes, and see them in context. One can also look at what is actually required to achieve the targets set and how to avoid excessive price differences. I therefore think it is important that the Central Party today get signals from other parties about a positive attitude with regard to our Document No. Eight proposals on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e333	We're living in a time of great change where technological developments keep a very high pace. In the last ten years, IT technology has changed the everyday life of most of us. It's changed the way we communicate, the way many acquire information, the way we work, and not least how commerce and business are run. In many ways, the development of electronic commerce and the development of Internet services are a driving force in social development. IT technology provides whole new tools for the individual, for the organisation of public services and for new activities in all parts of the country. The public has a great responsibility to support the availability of the new information society for all. It is therefore important that the public have an active policy in relation to the development of broadband networks. This must be done primarily by the authorities stimulating development by being an active demand for broadband and broadband services and by ensuring competition in the market, as the Government proposes. The fact that the public should not finance broadband expansion does not mean that the public should or can act passively in relation to such expansion. Innovation is best stimulated by creative interaction between educational institutions, the research community, businesses and investors. Also, in order to stimulate value creation in the IT sector, it is an important public task to facilitate such a good innovation and knowledge environment. The left, therefore, places emphasis on securing the up-to-date and functional training of the schools. IT technology in schools is important to learn to understand the use of the tool and to expand its individual knowledge. It is particularly important to provide teachers with the knowledge they need to be able to apply new technologies, not least to guide the students for reasonable use, but also to provide a source-critical competence in relation to the enormous amount of information they can receive. Information technology changes how we live in everyday life, and how we acquire and process information. From a world where access to more and more information gave many benefits, there is now a situation where the amount of information itself has become so large that it has become a challenge to master it, both to distinguish information with high quality and not to spend too much time. IT technology is also a stress factor for many, and is an important reason why time has become too short for many. It is therefore important not least for the public to put new technologies into practice, that it be done primarily to make society simpler. People should have easier access to good information and services should be provided faster and easier than today. There are too many examples of new technologies introduced in the public sector proving to be misinvestments and that new opportunities have only led to more forms and more bureaucracy. IT technology offers great potential, but can also act as an exclusive tool. Technological developments themselves provide opportunities for major events or artistic expressions, which were previously part of the common public space, now only for those who will pay for it. A nearby example in these days is access to the upcoming football World Cup. The political environment will, by and large, decide whether a single major person should be reserved for the common public space. A major challenge is also to prevent the emergence of a new class distinction based on access to technology. Not least it is in relation to the third world. IT access is an element of economic development in a country and must therefore play an important role in Norway's aid policy strategy. The IT community is also a challenge in ensuring privacy. A strict and consistent privacy policy is a commitment to trust most people in network economy and electronic interaction. Strong data protection is such a device for the commercial exploitation of IT technology. The left will also take up the idea that a dedicated certification body should be created to ensure data solutions that can provide security clearance against, inter alia. data breach at chosen data solutions. Such a body must be able to assess the privacy and other security aspects of the operation of different computer networks. By early setting requirements for the solutions approved in Norway, the development of Norwegian IT technology can be significantly strengthened. We very often discuss the technology and the development of the infrastructure when we discuss IT, but we rarely discuss the content and the use of content and who should decide what content should be. I think that when most people find out how IT technology can be useful to them in everyday life, maybe it's also going to increase the rate of expansion. But I have to admit that when it comes to having broadband to all the worlds, I'm wondering what we're going to use that technology for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e361	Last Tuesday, I presented both my IT policy statement and our new national IT plan eNorway 2005, which is the Government's overall IT policy for the next three years. eNorway is both principleal and concrete. eNorway highlights the main challenges and identifies important bottlenecks for development. With this, I want to highlight the importance of the use and development of IT for economic growth, value creation and societal development in general. At the same time, I want to point out how important it is to get a comprehensive grip on IT policy. The guiding idea in both the presentation and the eNorway plan is the following: infrastructure, competence and content development are closely linked. The development of infrastructure and well-developed competences are prerequisites for the development of content and the exploitation of IT, while well-developed and accessible content is a prerequisite for the development of infrastructure. In each of the three areas, infrastructure, competence and content development, we therefore need to take initiatives and speed up interaction and development. As an IT minister, I have a clear vision of a society with an active business and society that can turn around quickly, to reap the great benefits of using information technology. This will give us both a more efficient society and significantly better services, both private and public. And we're strengthening the competitiveness of business on the purchase. So we're going to win on all fronts. The government will create good framework conditions for eNorway through an adapted regulatory framework, good financial arrangements and organisation for increased innovation and research in the field of IT. On the basis of these overall objectives, we are going into concrete action: we need to identify barriers to electronic reporting and the exchange of personal data between public authorities. This will help to facilitate reporting and better use of the public data base. The government will contribute to the security and accessibility of information systems, services and networks. The Government has set the objective of facilitating the general use of electronic signatures by the end of 2005. After working on this for a long time, it is now time for the authorities to take some overall action in this area. The government will provide the competent population and business. The school is the most important arena, which several of the speakers here have been in. After considerable investment has been made both in municipalities and by the State over a long period of time, the Government will now make every effort to make more committed use of the investments and opportunities. We're going to bet on digital learning materials and make sure teachers are offered refresher training in the use of IT, and we're going to have to provide a broadband lift in Norwegian school. We need to facilitate relations for the Norwegian IT industry. We need to make public content more accessible to users, and we need to digitise and make available our common cultural heritage. Therefore, the Government has launched a separate strategy for electronic content. As part of the programme for the modernisation of public administration, we will use IT to create a modern public sector. We will make Norway simpler, including: by simplifying public reporting. We're going to transform general government to adapt to customers' needs. We have many advanced users in Norway who will expect electronic public services, so this is ambitious targets! We want more speed in broadband development, which is what many of the posts here have been about. There appears to be a broad consensus that developments are mainly market driven. Although the broadband target of the previous government was too ambitious, we want to uphold the basic principles. We're taking initiatives to boost demand. One instrument, which we expect a lot from, is that one exploits the possibilities of tax exemptions for the use of broadband by workers, as many have exploited the tax exemption scheme in purchasing PCs. So some numbers that have been present in the debate and that are not entirely consistent with what is today's reality. In document No: The 8 proposal put forward by the representatives of Arnstad and Enoxen refers to figures that were probably correct at the time they are from December 2000, then only 0.34 pst. of the Norwegian people were connected to broadband. According to the latest available statistics, the figure is between 1.5 and 2 pst. But new national numbers now show that we're actually located somewhere between 5 and 7 pst. in broadband connection. And it's not like there's a small minority who have access to broadband connectivity. It's actually 50-60 pst. by the Norwegian people who have this access. In this way, opportunities are definitely present for large sections of the population. But it can definitely be better, and it is also being done for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e406	It's not that long since we set ourselves the goal of broadband for everyone in 2004. Now the state council has gone quietly in the doors – when he has now released this one year. Of course, the size has recorded that the market has collapsed, so the eagerness to expand broadband with money from the market has not been so strong lately. At the same time, the Council of State will have much more competition. This means that in the big cities it'll be cheaper – with several providers – and it'll be good. In the districts, we don't get any offers at all, and the tax exemption is not enough to get there. What is the future strategy to get there that we can reach everyone with broadband – even with the deadline set by the Council of State? If one chooses to watch the market just go to our schools, we may have to wait a lot longer. If we take any other action – not just economic, but set up so that our public agencies will be able to ask for it, and also look at structural action – that will make the monopolist perhaps be challenged by a competitor, perhaps also with state funding, then there are opportunities here. But then you have to have the vision and the will to look at that kind of solutions. I want to challenge the Council of State a little bit on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e417	The main device in relation to being able to install broadband at – I kept saying – all, both in public offices, in business and in private homes, is that the government is continuing the strategy of what was presented and, as we debated in the Storting two to three years ago, that there is demand to drive this. Public agencies will then be important players in this demand in many districts. My experience with this matter is not primarily that there is a lack of broadband access, but that there is a lack of experienced needs for those who are going to buy it if necessary. When 50–60 pst. the population has access to a good and reaches per last year, only 1-2 pst. had gone to acquire it, there is something that the market players on the sales side have not been able to convince customers that the benefits exceed the cost. And the obvious thing is that there's a lack of emotional needs related to what's content and what you're going to use it for. I think it'll be a dead end if the political focus is one-sidedly linked to infrastructure – and we completely forget what's going on in content. I now want to take initiatives towards the municipal sector, towards business, towards the power industry and towards public agencies in the districts to find out what it felt like the need, the costs we have, and why some municipalities have done this. There are many good examples of municipalities that have come up with this – with prices that are absolutely affordable. But at my discretion, it seems that the imagination is not enough. And that means that we have a task to do in the guidance of the municipalities, so that they get this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e426	In the State Council’s presentation a week ago, a plan for IT development, eNorway 2005, was presented in parallel. There is ambition; the average level in the EU should be lowered. We know, of course, that the EU will now present a similar plan – eEurope 2005 – and that it will be possible to ignore the United States and have the most competitive IT economy and IT businesses in this area in 2010. Now there are some in Norway who believe that this is too ambitious from Norway, and I can basically agree with that. We are a small country located on the edge of Europe. We have a small domestic market, poorly developed infrastructure, and we have tax rules that are lower than the EU average. In the evening post today, I read that our Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has visited some IT entrepreneurs who clearly put the cabinet in place. They were concerned with the legislation on newly established enterprises, but also with the sharing rule in the tax reform and option taxation. For the Progress Party, it is important that we have world-class tax conditions in this area to compensate for some of the disadvantages. So my question to the Council of State is: how will he work to make it easier to develop successful companies in IT in Norway, and that they will stay here once they have achieved success, and not move out of the country because of the wealth tax? In addition, how should we be able to retain key personnel in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e435	It is true, as the representative Hedstrøm says, that in a very short time the EU will present a plan, eEurope 2005, based on the Lisbon strategy that the EU will be the most dynamic and growth-intensive trading bloc in the world by 2010, and the implementation of ICT is an important part of this. So the question is whether it is ambitious enough for Norway to have a strategy that will correspond to the EU average. We are prepared that to the extent that there should be great news in this plan, we will of course have to look at these things. But now it is also the case that we have had some political contact and with the civil service related to what is going on in the EU – we have so far constantly – so some great surprises do not necessarily have to be. So the question of how we're going to work to improve the possibility of setting up businesses in this area. The representative Hedstrom mentioned the evening post today, and that I had a visit from First Tuesday last week. He asked us how to keep these businesses, and how to keep the good people. I don't think there's any doubt that some of the things that the representative Hedstrøm pointed to, this is about regulatory simplification, the sharing model and, in particular, option taxation, are important elements. You can't get past the fact that many of these companies, especially in this industry, have what I would call a thin capital base initially, and being able to tempt experts with options that they can gain from if they stay in the company for three to five years is important. Therefore, we have already made some adjustments to the option tax, and we have ambitions to move further towards taxing these options at the time they are paid, and not when they are given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e444	It has been said that one of the areas where new jobs are to be created around Norway is in IT. It is one of the areas where creating new district jobs is to be the easiest. But then it is felt that the cost of setting up these types of jobs is far greater in the districts than they are in the central districts. The representative Arnstad was involved in this in his post, and mentioned as an example the Namdalen versus Oslo. I have experienced that companies have actually been reduced because the operating costs and start-up costs on the IT side are so large in District Norway that it is actually profitable to move into cities, where the costs are much lower. I would like to ask the Minister of Industry a specific question: will the Minister of Industry ensure that there will be a level playing field for IT companies in the districts and cities with regard to the costs of various IT solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e451	I don't think there's any good empirical evidence to say that the costs of setting up IT companies or other companies are lower in central areas than in districts. Some costs are higher when established in the districts, and some costs are lower. What Ryan had in mind was the cost of broadband connectivity, which can often be higher in areas where there are fewer connections. So he asked me what I would do in relation to the competitive situation in that area. Let me first make it quite clear that competition in this area is the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. Secondly, as mentioned in the statement by the representative of Arnstad, Telenor has a role to play in this. Then I would say the following: It is not natural for me as the owner of 3⁄4 of Telenor to go in and regulate things that the regulatory authorities do not want to regulate. But the announcement of ownership is being discussed in Stortinget, and if the Stortinget were to find that the Minister of Industry is going to pursue a different policy than pure ownership through the exercise of his ownership, then the Stortinget now has a given opportunity to think about these things. I think it would be very unwise to go through the Ministry of Ownership and see about these things. This time it concerns competition in the telecommunications sector. The next time, it might apply to aluminium profiles – what do I know? I think it's very important that we keep this clear from each other. But it is an overall important policy for the Government to ensure competition in all markets, including this, of course. That means that this is something that is being persecuted, but that is being persecuted by the Minister of Transport, and it will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e458	After the last exchange of lines, one has to note that the Minister of Industry feels it is excellent that it costs ten times more to rent broadband in Namdalen than in Oslo – that there is a desired policy from this government, and that it uses the purely formal argument of ownership in order not to decide, not to deal with, such a problem. I think that's unfortunate. I also have some problems that the Council of State says there is a lack of «feeling needs». Is there a lack of «felt need» when a film company in Levanger cannot move to Snåsa because there is no broadband access on Snåsa? Is there a lack of «felt need» when the municipalities of Inner Namdalen wanting to streamline municipal and intermunicipal services do not risk being able to do so because broadband access is too poor due to Telenor defining the Inner Namdalen as a potential area for broadband access? Many of these issues require a closer, wider and more thorough debate on the part of political authorities. On 7 May, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to ‘promote its own case for the Stortinget to develop broadband networks in areas of the country where the market itself is not strong enough to ensure expansion’. It's been adopted in the Storting. I expect it to be followed up by the Government. Could the follow-up to this Decision not have been an excellent opportunity for the Council of State and the Government to promote an overall communication on broadband policy and on which strategies we will choose in the years to come to meet all the fine objectives that all representatives today have achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e469	First of all, with «feeling needs» and «not felt needs». After many years of sales experience, I know at least that a buyer group of 50-60 pst has been identified. by the Norwegian people, and as it is produced that have a felt need, and it is only 2 pst. who have purchased the product, then there is either something wrong with the price of the product or people have not been convinced of this. But this, in my opinion, is a combination of several things. I happily admit that there are some places in the country where this is not a real opportunity – it was mentioned Snåsa – but it is nevertheless such that 50 – 60 pst. of the Norwegian people have access. The number of individuals connecting is relatively low. I sincerely hope that the Economic and Social Committee has set a good example and that at least all members of the Committee have connected to broadband. That would be a contribution in that way. So in relation to this, the market does not do the job, and a possible follow-up of a big decision on this. Of course, all of the decisions on landfill are followed up. The question is: is it time to establish and, as a matter of fact, conclude with: Where is the market working and where is it not working? I have the assumption that, after seeing some successful projects in some municipalities, and actually in some municipalities that are relatively peripheral, that after going together – business, local ICT, to say the word, it can be banks, it can be not least power companies and others – solutions have been found. I have been presented many of them from landing to landing. And then it strikes me that one of the reasons why you haven't reached the goal is that you sit on each other and look at the problems without going together and asking: what really is the obstacle to us being able to do this broadband connection, which at least politicians think is very important? Everything suggests that the nation, the country, the district that is far off here has a advantage in competition. That's why it should be a general goal for all of us to achieve it. As I said, I have taken an initiative to invite all the parties involved to create, let me say, ‘drive lines’ to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e476	When I take a line again, it is because I was not satisfied with the answer I received from the Minister of Industry on my previous line. I'll try to be more precise in the question. We have a Minister of Industry who is Minister of Industry for the whole country, both for the small municipalities and for the large municipalities. My question is as follows: will the Minister of Industry work to ensure that all areas of the country have a level playing field in connection with the network and use of the network, so that enterprises located in District Norway will have the same competitive conditions in the areas as urban enterprises? Will the Minister of Industry work for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e483	That was a two-sided question. The first question was, will the Minister of Industry work to enable all companies that want to do so to connect to broadband? The answer to that is, of course, yes. And then the next question is, will the Minister of Industry work so that companies can make use of this at competitive prices? Of course I do. If Ryan thinks that the authorities have to regulate so that it gets as cheap and as expensive everywhere for exactly this input factor in business, the answer is: I don't see the solution, I don't see how it should be done. But the ambition is that we should have as low prices on the input factor as possible. And the best way to do that is to make the most of this. I think it's definitely possible for us, which is now on average in the spread of broadband if you look at the OECD area, to move forward quite quickly. I think we can do it both through guidance and through the tax incentives. And as I said, at the moment I'm convinced that we're now so far using the demand methodology and it's obvious that there are some areas that won't be covered, of course we have to go in and consider increasing the use of funds. But it's not that we don't spend money on this today. We're spending tens of millions on the HØYKOM system to increase demand so that we can increase broadband deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e490	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 2802]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e508	From Stortinget provisionally passed the building ban law, etc. in coastal areas by the sea on 25 June 1965, there has been a general construction ban in the 100 metre belt along the sea. This provision was incorporated in the Law of 14 June 1985. The prohibitions include, inter alia: justified by ensuring access to coastal areas to the public and keeping the areas close to the sea as far as possible free from hamlet. However, the legislation provides for derogations from the construction ban in municipal plans and for areas covered by regulatory plans. Exemptions may also be made from the construction ban for individual cases. These exceptions shall respect local self-government and the right of ownership of the property by landowners. The purpose of the audit, on the part of the National Audit Office, has been to examine whether the development of the beach areas has been carried out in a manner that meets Storting’s intentions. The aim has been to document the extent of the development as a result of the exemptions from the construction ban and to illustrate the functioning of today’s instruments. It is a broad majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, SV and the Christian People's Party, which underlines the importance of precisely monitoring development and ensuring universal access to natural and coastal areas and the general public. The majority also believe that the Riksrevision report has made an important contribution on the monitoring side. Furthermore, this broad majority has taken note of the National Audit Office’s statement that it is constantly being developed more according to plan than previously assumed, and that the Riksrevision believes that questions can be asked about whether the documented degradation is consistent with the legislative intentions. The majority have also noticed that the area within the construction areas as per. On 1 January 2000 not yet built-in is greater than the total area built-in from 1982 to 1999. In view of this, the majority consider it necessary to follow closely the application of both dispensation and planning practices in the 100 metre belt. Furthermore, in the light of the signals given by the Government in relation to a continuing active follow-up to these issues, the Government is advised by the majority of the Committee to return to the Storting with a briefing on the situation by the end of 2003. There, of course, it will be interesting for the Committee and the Storting to hear if the Government has given any thought to it. A second majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the SV, considers that the experience gained with current legislation is sufficient to establish that a tightening is necessary to ensure the intentions of the Stortinge. This majority therefore asks the Government to propose amendments to the law that can ensure this. It is clear that there is always a balance between how long you should look at development and wait, but, of course, I am aware that this majority unfortunately does not represent a majority in the Chamber – for so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e525	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2802]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e541	It is gratifying that today’s Great Britain can ratify the Kyoto Protocol with a large majority, not least because Norway will be able to stand still at the large conference in Johannesburg in August, among other things. this Protocol in the case. Think that this work seriously started in the 1980s with the Brundtland Commission, which was going into the work of a resilient development! Now we're starting to get more meat on that bone that's called environment. The Climate Communication, which Stortinget will deal with later, Local Agenda 21, a national strategy for sustainable development – it would, of course, be called National Agenda 21, but it will come back to us later – all of this is a change that will be central in the years to come in order to shape Norway's contribution to a more environmentally friendly value. In concrete terms, the Kyoto Protocol is a direct extension and a follow-up to the Convention of July 1993, which establishes binding and determinative emission responsibility for Norway and other industrialised countries. Norway signed the protocol in 1998, and the majority of the Committee sees the seriousness of environmental problems that the Convention and the Protocol are intended to address, and therefore supports the proposal for ratification of the Protocol. For details on how the content of the Kyoto Protocol will guide and determine Norwegian climate policy, please refer to the Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2001–2002 and St.meld. No 54 for 2000-2001. The implementation of the Protocol could lead to a reduction in the value of Norwegian oil and lost petroleum revenues as a result of a possible reduction in oil demand. The future development of the oil and gas market will depend on several factors, where implementation of the Kyoto Protocol is one and technology development another. There is therefore a need for a wide-ranging Norwegian commitment to the development of new industries, independent of oil and in line with the intentions of the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol. That's why it's nice that we're looking around to see that business is changing. We see that shipyards, for example. start recycling thinner – a thrower it no longer – one sees that one in more and more cities is operating heat pumping systems to exploit the resource of maritime heating. This will contribute to creating jobs, perhaps in line with what we see in Denmark, where wind power technology has become a major export article. So the emergence of economic development in alternative energy can be a new coastal industry. There is also a minority in the Committee who believe that Norway should not ratify the Kyoto Protocol. I'm assuming that they want to do something for their own vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e556	There are many good reasons not to be in the race for who is the best in the Kyoto class, although I understand that it can give both international and national recognition to be seen as a defender of mankind's future. And when we study what's going on in the climate field, it's far from the reality that's around us, to the nearest doomsday prophecy that some people use. We admit that there are climate variations and changes, but much of this is created by nature itself and not by humans. It is therefore almost for symbol policy to assume that one will impose strict regulations on oneself to achieve very little or nothing. Norwegian teams want to put in place measures that can have far-reaching consequences. People and industry may be charged both taxes and regulations. What this will do to our competitiveness is a big question. At the same time, we know that industry wants voluntary agreements, which has not been of particular interest to political authorities. There is today a look-up in the Address Paper, which refers to what some of the costs may be for the jobs of the process industry – a variation in the cost of some 50 000 kroner and up to well over 600000 kroner. It is clear that these are significant costs which could be imposed on these companies and which will certainly have something to say about the safety of these jobs. And when we know that Norway is in any case a country with relatively small emissions of the so-called greenhouse gases, this becomes quite wild. In addition, we know that the United States, and perhaps Australia, Canada and Russia, will not ratify the Kyoto Protocol. Had it been so that our contribution had really made the earth a better place to live, the Advance Party had also participated with life and lust. But we think it's better to adapt to reality, while at the same time, with industry, we can get positive action. Anyway, we'd like to admit that reduced CO2 emissions are good, but we also know that technology is moving forward and is helping to increase the potential for reduced emissions. The Progress Party sees the Kyoto Protocol as a blow in the air. Unfortunately, we believe that we impose an additional burden on our country, which is completely unnecessary, and we will therefore vote against the ratification of this protocol. I don't want to leave the Kyoto Protocol completely, and will go a little bit into what's behind this. Although we had shared the majority’s view on anthropogenic greenhouse gases, there are nevertheless – we believe – many good reasons for going against ratification. The costs of, inter alia: Norway and other OECD countries by implementing the Kyoto Protocol will cost the same as the cost of possible global warming in 2100 every year, when we arrive at 2050. Nevertheless, the full cost has to be paid in 2100, because the Kyoto Protocol will only delay the temperature increase by six years, shows estimates. In this way, we're going to have to pay twice to solve the same problem. One of the main problems of the Kyoto Protocol, of course, is that emissions from developing countries are not covered by the Protocol. They want their growth, of course, which we want them to have. But this will also mean increased emissions. It may also be that some industrial companies choose to move to countries not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, with the challenges it faces, so the protocol we have today does not address the problem at all – if you think it is a problem – but only costs and disadvantages for those countries that now choose to join the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e571	It is very important that the Kyoto Protocol be ratified, and it is important that Norwegian ratification is used to put pressure on other countries to speed up their implementation. The centre party is pleased with the initiative that I understand the Minister for the Environment has taken by writing letters to his Western colleagues on the importance of this. It is also imperative that national plans for the follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol be made offensive and speedy. This will be addressed in a different context, but this will also be important for the signal effect on other countries. The United States is an Achilles heel in connection with the Kyoto Protocol. The government must make it very clear to the United States how unacceptable it is that the Americans have withdrawn from the Kyoto commitments. The signal effect of the US withdrawal is relatively high in relation to western countries. The signal effect on developing countries is disastrous when one knows which challenges developing countries also face in a number of environmental areas. One shall not be strange as the fortune-teller to see that the lack of American follow-up to the Kyoto commitments will have negative consequences for the Conference on Sustainable Development, which will take place in Johannesburg later this year. My point is that we must not give up getting the United States on board climate policy. It is essential that there is a continuous pressure on the United States. We can only note that the Progress Party does not support the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. It is incomprehensible and irresponsible in our view, but we must only note that the Progress Party is at a different level from the other parties in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e584	This is an important day of climate policy work in Norway. Per. 6 May, two industrialised countries have ratified the Kyoto Protocol. It's Romania and the Czech Republic. With what the Government has set up now, there is reason to believe that we are going to be in port with the ratification process before the Johannesburg Summit on Environment for the autumn – Rio ten years later. With the uncertainty that has, after all, been created in relation to the Kyoto Protocol, it is essential that industrialised countries now advance in order to have the ratification ready before the Johannesburg meeting. As several speakers have pointed out, the situation is that after the United States chose to leave the Kyoto Agreement, several countries are now beginning to look at the commitments imposed, and several large countries are questioning whether it is right to ratify. I believe that we are going to get the Kyoto agreement through – that enough countries are ratifying it. It's scary that in a big country like Australia, it seems like you're now considering walking in the footsteps of the United States, not ratifying. After all, we are facing the greatest global environmental challenge over time, and choosing not to do anything, just doesn't last! The fact that we are now at the forefront of the ratification process by Norway is important, but it is essential to use the time up to Johannesburg to put considerable pressure on other countries to keep pace. There are some questions raised about the real climate noise. There are now three IPPC reports, which are the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. All three are large, heavy documents, where 600 of the leading scientific personalities in this area have participated. The latest main report concludes that there has undoubtedly been global warming in the last 50 years, and that the main cause of this warming is likely to be due to human activity. On the basis of the precautionary principle, it is clearly important that action is now taken. We know something about what will happen if you don't. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that it is likely to increase temperature over the next hundred years between 1.4 and 5.8 degrees. Of course, there is uncertainty about such models, but that is what has been set out. There are not, as I have mentioned, any randomly convoluted persons who have pronounced this, but there are 600 of the world's leading scientists. It is true, as was also said here, that climate change is occurring naturally all the time. But by nature they are slow, and ecosystems have time to adapt. Now it's different. Now we can get the fastest increase in the average temperature of 10000 years, the highest global average temperature of 150000 years; If these developments continue, they may have disastrous consequences in the form of extreme weather conditions, increased desertification, ice melting and sea rise. Coastal areas may be submerged and large cities may be flooded. For Norway, the main concern is what can be the consequences of the vital Gulf flow, on which we rely. The fact that the party which, according to the polls, is now the largest in Norway, namely the Progress Party, rejects this is disturbing to me. I almost had to pinch my arm when I heard the presentation coming from there. The cost of implementing the Kyoto Protocol is said to be so high. But what is the cost of not implementing it? What will the cost to the world community be if we get into a situation where global warming becomes like the 600 leading scientists think it's likely to be? The representative of the Progress Party said that it is ‘fairly wild’ to address this type of proposal. I have to replicate that I think it is actually very alarming that you are not willing to take these frightening signals inwards, and that you reject that Norway should take responsibility. In fact, I do not believe that Norwegian voters are aware that the party that according to the polls is Norway's largest party, goes out and rejects the whole climate challenge and the climate turmoil, that they say that we should only thin inch eights, and that in Norway we should lean back and not take responsibility at all – with the fatal consequences it can have for the international climate. In order to stop global warming, we need to start reducing global emissions as quickly as possible and to reduce them significantly. This can only be achieved through the recognition by countries of their specific responsibility for the problem and the reduction of their emissions. In the next round, however, we will need a global solution that facilitates emission reductions and later reductions in developing countries. As Haga's representative pointed out, it is now a huge challenge to get developing countries to have the biggest increases in emissions to discuss commitments at all. When the United States, which stands for 25 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions, have said that they do not want an agreement, it obviously makes it difficult to discuss with, for example: India and China to make them take on commitments. That work has stopped completely, and it is very worrying. If we do not get the United States back on track, it may be difficult to get the developing countries to assume new commitments, or commitments at all, which is necessary. What we have also seen in the withdrawal of the United States is that some other countries have begun to discuss and assess the obligations imposed on them in 1990. We saw it in Marrakech before Christmas, when we had the final review, where Russia said that if they weren't credited 33 million. They would not ratify tons of extra carbon because of their forest management — that is, how the trees put on, and they would have come to figures other than those they had during the Bonn meeting in the same summer. Then we were in danger of not just the United States, by 25 pst. the emissions, but also Russia, responsible for 17 pst. of global emissions, could leave the protocol. After all, Russia was credited over 30 million. tonnes of extra carbon at the Marrakech meeting to save the agreement. So it's more than half of Norway's total greenhouse gas emissions. This shows that U.S. withdrawals have been implicated in the way other actors act now, and we have received signals that other countries are also concerned with the same idea of looking at their obligations. It will also further weaken global environmental work. The threat of global climate change is formidable and therefore it is crucial to meet it through ambitious and effective international agreements. The Kyoto Protocol implies the first commitment of developed countries to binding and numerical commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The entry into force of the Protocol will be an historic and necessary step forward in international climate cooperation. The Government has requested that Norway, through early ratification, contribute to the entry into force of the agreement at the UN Summit on Environment and Development in Johannesburg. I have also, as the representative Haga had in mind, in meetings and letters to colleagues internationally called for everything to be done to enable ratification to take place at the earliest opportunity. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to address this issue with key actors in bilateral contexts and through our diplomatic channels. I don't think we're getting away from the fact that the Johannesburg Summit also has to be about climate. Finally, I think it is important to stress that the Kyoto Protocol is not in any way the end result of international climate cooperation. It's just a first, little step. Although all developed countries were to meet the Kyoto commitments, including the United States, we will face continued growth in global emissions. We therefore need a much more ambitious global climate regime. For the post-2012 period, the Government will work for tighter emission obligations that also cover the largest possible country. It is particularly important that the US and developing countries with large emissions and/or strong emissions growth assume emission obligations. The Protocol requires the launch of new negotiations by 2005. In the Additional Communication, the Government has indicated that preparations for negotiations on new emissions obligations must start now and that Norway will play an active role in this work. I have already begun to address this issue in discussions with colleagues internationally. By facilitating early ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, the Government has also provided an important basis for a more offensive national climate policy. Today, we are building the foundations of future climate policy through innovative instruments, such as national and international quota trade. I look forward to the Storting's handling of the climate report and the additional message in a few weeks, and hope that Stortinget will support the Government's plans to meet Norway's commitments. This will further contribute to the Government’s objective of a more offensive climate policy and will provide a basis for Norway to continue to have an international leadership role in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e625	The President suggests that political polls must be assumed to have the same degree of uncertainty as other temperature measurements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e628	For the Labour Party, it is obvious that the Kyoto Protocol must be ratified by Norway, and so is the case for most in the United Kingdom. The real debate on climate policy, as the Council of State just said, will come later. So I'm not going to go into it right now, but I'm just going to highlight a couple of aspects of this ratification question that we think is a special reason to focus on. When I say there's a special reason to focus on it, it's because we have a party in the hall that goes against ratification. It has been so previously that when the Progress Party expresses its opinion on international issues, on foreign policy, there is reason to call for caution, and there should be greater and higher warnings. What has been said by the Progress Party here today is not just a doubt about the greenhouse effect and the climate problem. It is true that there is such a doubt, but it is very likely, as others have been, that the opposite is the case. At least there is a precautionary principle to be applied. What is even more dramatic in this context is that the Progress Party adopts a policy that will isolate Norway. Not only should we appear to be rich and a little gritty, but we should also appear to be a little piggy in global society, by reserving the right to drive on our own when it comes to environmental issues. If there is something small countries need, then there is mandatory international cooperation. Then there's no argument that some big ones won't be involved. The big ones always have the possibilities to get an impact on their vision. Our task must be to help us achieve as comprehensive international agreements as possible in the environment and in other areas, so that a binding is as much as possible. This protocol is not perfect, but it was one that came into being as a basis for agreement. Thus, it should be obvious to Norway that this is a contract agency that we not only join, but – as others have said – is actively working for even more people to join. At least it may not be that Norway, like a small country, is at the forefront of breaking down international agreements. This is in one way the most important thing in what is being said from the Progress Party here now. The second, which relates to their views on environmental and climate issues, has been heard in the past. But this fact that one does not want to accept international agreements because others do not join is a view that we should take note of as a strong warning from a party that we must take seriously also on foreign policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e644	The President would point out that ‘reacting pigs’ is hardly a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e647	It is a happy day for the environment that we now have to deal with the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. The fact that Norway is taking the lead and is now carrying out an early ratification is, in this way, very, very positive. IPCC reports are crystal clear: we are changing our climate. The Energy and Environment Committee was on its way to Svalbard last week. There we had the pleasure of observing polar bears, fortunately from a helicopter, but nevertheless: We saw polar bears alive in their natural surroundings. However, the question is whether, for example: My grandchildren will have the same opportunity to observe polar bears on Svalbard. It's not initially given, because this is one of the species threatened by global warming. The ratification of the Kyoto Protocol is a first step. The job must now be done nationally, and the measures outlined in the Climate Action Communication, including the Supplementary Communication, are too weak in relation to the challenges we face. Here Stortinget has a very important job to do in the weeks ahead. SV has therefore made a number of proposals to make climate policy even more ambitious, as it is a reality that national follow-up is crucial in relation to further climate action. The United States is pointing to the developing countries. The developing countries point to rich countries like Norway. We must demonstrate that we are able to reduce our emissions in order to establish a global agreement that limits greenhouse gas emissions globally and that includes both the developing countries and the United States. It is in this way a paradox that the United States is very concerned with international terrorism, while they are not as concerned about how their own behaviour at home actually kills people in other parts of the world as a result of global warming. In my opinion, this is rather shameful. I look forward to the further work on climate policy, and hope that it is possible to put in place a majority here in the UK for an ambitious climate policy – a very ambitious climate policy – in view of the challenges we are actually facing in terms of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e658	First to the representative of Blankenborg on the willingness of the Progress Party to participate in internationally committed environmental cooperation. I did not refuse to participate solely because, as I referred to, some countries do not want to ratify. That's not our reason, and we're happy with where we think it makes sense. This time we don't think it makes sense, and the costs are too high. They say that there is a great deal of professional consensus, and you can refer to thick reports and documents, of course you can. But at the same time, I am sure that the Minister for the Environment and others know that there is increasing scepticism, and there are many signals and reports that indicate that, in the context of the United Nations Climate Panel’s emphasis on the word ‘probably’, the need to underline that word may be greater than it has been in the past. There was now also a visit to Svalbard. There are two relatively recent studies presented in the American journals ‘Nature’ and ‘Science’. They show that the thickness of the ice in Antarctica and West Antarctic is increasing, and that it is now getting colder in Antarctica, contrary to what you think should be the effect of global warming, because you think it should be noticed there first. If the Council of State were to have a great deal of credibility on my part in this area, the Norwegian side would ask for a halt to all CO2 emissions. It could have had an effect. Now, what you're going to do doesn't have that effect, and I guess the Council of State was as far as it goes. If I have understood correctly, the effects of the measures that we are now being asked to introduce as a result of Kyoto will be that in the year 2100 we will have a temperature increase of 0.15 degrees less than it would have been if we had not done anything, and the water level in the sea will be 2 1⁄2 cm less than it would be – that is, the marginal effects of measures that could have quite far-reaching consequences for both business and individuals. I believe that this is not related to each other, and now that we are almost told that we are facing a huge threat to the whole world, I do not understand that, if you are serious about this, you do not suggest measures that can really have any effect – because this becomes quite incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e666	What is most incomprehensible by what has been said today is certainly the contribution to the Progress Party, for such denial of the environmental challenges and climate challenges that we have, we shall look for very long. And I have to say that the Progress Party assumes a considerable responsibility for future emerging generations when it says that we do nothing about this. It is a responsibility that the Progress Party will of course take. But I am very pleased that such a large majority in the United Kingdom is gathering on the principles enshrined in the Kyoto agreement. As the Council of State said, it is not a final step. There has to be more and probably more progress, but it is nevertheless the first important contribution to getting the only framework we have actually managed to establish to deal with climate policy challenges globally. It is in itself a force, in my opinion, of the Kyoto Protocol that we have actually done it. We're talking about a leading commodity principle, which I think maybe in several areas of climate policy we should take over. Rarely have we used that term so much in some debate that is just now, and I think that those who are going to grow up after us, for the future of the planet, will appreciate that we are living up to the precautionary principle in this debate, as it is now made visible by a large majority of the Biggest. What is, however, very regrettable, and is a threat to the full implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, is the fact that the United States has dropped off, and that there is a cross in the sea relative to Australia. That is why the work to be done towards the Johannesburg Conference is becoming extremely important in putting further pressure on several countries, not least the large, heavy nations, to make their contributions within the only framework, as we have said, that we actually have. Otherwise, I will be allowed to give tribute to the Government and the Council of State for a very rapid response after the Cooperation Government took over, in relation to bringing this forward for the Storting and getting a ratification on the table as quickly as possible, which, in my opinion, will put Norway in a positive international light in the run-up to an active and more offensive environmental policy, as the Council of State formulated it, and to which I join. So Ingvild Vaggen Malvik was the case rapporteur for the climate communication in a number of elements that show that there may be a need to go further, and that there may be disagreement about how far we are going now. I look forward to the debate in which we are really going to discuss climate policy challenges. On the basis of such a well-performing case rapporteur's job in this matter, I look forward to the fact that, hopefully, we will also have a broad majority in the Grand Duchy on the main lines of the instruments that we actually have to put into practice, including at home on the mountain, even if the Progress Party is not on that trip either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e679	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2803]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e695	A unanimous committee notes that the members of the Western Nordic Council, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland have historical, cultural and economic access points to Norway and that countries have common challenges in resource management. It is also shown that Western Nordic members, like Norway, have chosen to stand outside the EU. The Committee notes that there is cooperation between Norwegian coastal states and the Western Nordic members within the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and believes that it would be more appropriate to extend this cooperation than to submit an application for membership to the Western Nordic Council now. At the bottom of this is the recognition that closer cooperation needs to be developed gradually, and that no party will be served by the fact that Norway appears to be trying to detonate itself into established cooperation. After developing these closer contacts over time, Norwegian membership may be relevant, but it will have to be shown. On this basis, an overall committee recommends that the proposal be annexed to the minutes. As regards proposal No: In our opinion, the correct procedure from the Coastal Party must be that the individual party groups contact the parliaments of the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland, in order to have an invitation to Norway, if necessary, in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e706	I think there was a somewhat defensive position from the case rapporteur on behalf of the committee. Norway has many opportunities. We are rich in money, natural resources and human resources, and we live in a peaceful corner of another troubled world. Through an active foreign policy, we have made many friends and partners in the international community, but in some areas we have not made good use of the opportunities. In the opinion of the Coastal Party, cooperation in the West-Nordic region is one of these areas. Norway is involved in various forums dealing with West-North. We have cooperation with the Western Nordic countries in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Most of our coastal regions, together with the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland, are members of the Nordic Atlantic Cooperation Committee, NORA, which provides support for development projects in the West of the North. Northern Norway is also part of the Northern Periphery Programme of the European Union, which includes Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, Northern Scotland, Northern Sweden and Northern Finland. In addition, Norwegian enterprises are increasingly engaged in western Nordic countries. The Coastal Party believes, however, that the Norwegian authorities have been too restrained in their position on the West-Nordic region. Together with the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland, Norway has been able to control and manage large parts of the marine resources in the North Atlantic. We should therefore engage in more comprehensive and committed political cooperation so that we can take greater care of our common interests. The Coastal Party believes that as a coastal state, facing the North Atlantic, we have a natural orientation westwards. This may form the basis for building Norway as a country with western Norse identity. Some would argue that we can take care of our interests through the existing cooperation forums. The coastal party believes that existing cooperation is too under-organised in key policy areas. The Nordic Council is marginalised by the EU, at least it is becoming so, and the other cooperation bodies are limited to project support. The Coastal Party wants Norway to participate in and develop a new cooperation pattern in the Norwegian Sea region, where the Nordic countries outside the EU can coordinate their interests not only with the EU but also with other organisations and individual countries. Such cooperation should take place at all levels, but only parliamentary and government cooperation could give cooperation the necessary weight and progress. Norway is not currently part of the main cooperation forum for the Western Nordic countries, namely the Western Nordic Council. That is why we have proposed that the Stortinget should apply for membership of the Western Nordic Council, which is primarily parliamentary cooperation, but which is also a framework for government cooperation. The Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously opposes the proposal of the Coastal Party. In the Committee's comments, it is stated, inter alia, that: that it would be more appropriate to extend cooperation in forums such as the Nordic Council of Ministers and the NORA, and to signal to the Western Nordic Council Member States that closer cooperation is desirable. The Coastal Party perceives the Foreign Affairs Committee in such a way that Norway should progress more gradually in the matter of membership of the Western Nordic Council. We will therefore present the following proposals, which are an interlocutory between the proposals of the Coastal Party and the Committee's position: ‘The Grand Duchy shall contact the parliaments of the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland with a view to discussing whether there is a basis for Norwegian membership of the Western Norwegian Council.’.» We hope it can be treated as a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e726	Karl-Anton Swensen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2803]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e743	On behalf of an overall committee, it is a pleasure to put forward a recommendation to ratify the Convention on Combating Terrorism Financing. The Convention is intended to provide some of the potential for terrorist movements to exist. In an increasingly open world, including moving money, and in these times of globalisation, one of the negative features is that it also makes it easier and more possible for international terrorist organisations to operate. This Convention is intended to achieve this precisely. There are many challenges here, and there are also challenges related, for example, to: privacy. But in parallel with liberalising the world of finance and the rest of the world, we see that we have not been good enough to see that the negative consequences in this area can be formidable, and we hope that this is a first step that might be followed by other measures, so that we can more effectively prevent terrorist organisations from raising capital for larger operations. This ratification and much of this is also justified by what happened after 11 September, which immediately led Norway to take some steps in this way. It is now being followed up by the necessary legislative changes, which the Committee considers to be positive. So all in all, this is a matter which has the unanimous support of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e750	I allow myself three quick comments. Firstly, the Convention we are about to ratify today is important and contributes to the more effective fight against terrorism. By making it more difficult to obtain the means to carry out acts of terrorism, the Convention will set important conditions for organised terrorism. However, for the proper functioning of the United Nations Framework to which this Convention applies, it is assumed that all UN member states terminate and implement the legislation. Today, therefore, it is a regrettable fact that a number of countries have neither administrative capacity nor financial capacity to follow up the framework seas if there is a willingness to do so. And we have a concrete example of this in the follow-up to UN Resolution 1373, where we are now in a situation where a number of countries have not been able to report such a situation has been imposed in the resolution. This underpins the need for strong commitment to institutional development in international aid. If the fight against terrorist financing is to be effective, the Western world must be prepared to provide financial resources to build up administrative capacity in the poorest developing countries, which often lack entirely basic administrative structures. Secondly, the Committee came up with agreed wording on tax havens. The center part should have liked to have seen that the formulations had been stronger. And we encourage the Government to address this problem with a view to getting a bigger international debate on the phenomenon. It is regrettable that UN Resolution 1373 does not deal with tax havens and the opportunities they provide for money laundering for terrorist activities. Thirdly, the fight against terrorism has been given high priority after 11 September. We have to expect that further driving rules will be developed internationally in this respect. The centre party will underline the importance of continuing this legislative design in the framework of the UN. This is essential to ensure legitimacy and effective follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e761	Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss says in a newspaper today that he is too tax-free, but not for tax evasion. In Norway, we know that we have a pretty good overview of what's going to be taxed – we might have a little technical problem getting 2 to 3 billion kroner because one doesn't have enough capacity at the equation office osb. In the international situation we're in, we know that we don't even have an overview of tax havens, of the hidden assets that stand there. We should get an overview of it for a lot of reasons. One reason, of course, is that once we get that overview, we can consider: Should the money be taxed, or should they not be taxed? In any case, we agree that they will come forward, and they will come into the light. So there's a little bit of a different side to this with terrorism. We are constantly discussing terrorism without actually defining what terrorism is. The best definition I've ever seen is actually the 'illegal use of power'. If we had used that definition, there would be a lot that was defined as terrorism. Nelson Mandela says that if you lose before you win, you are a terrorist – in the sense that it should also be possible to be a freedom fighter. We know that the trade union movement and the Church are smuggling money into the South African opposition, osb. So we know that today's definition of terrorism becomes tighter and tighter and can actually prevent natural democratic development in some states. In fact, we can also ask in that context, when we know that there is also a choice of means used, whether there is little terrorism today. We actually see around the world that people get more and more insight into the differences that exist in the world. It's kind of like sitting on the moor and seeing that there's sun in Oslo. It gets a little bit worse when you watch it on TV! What we know is that poor people around the world have TV in their homes, and it's not exactly a program from the NRK's education department that's being shown there. It's a glory series, it's a series that shows a completely different reality than the one we know in Norway, a reality in which the rich world appears in its most grotesque way. I don't think that terrorism is related to people who live in stone castles, or to the poorest, but it expresses a difference that will in the long run be intolerable. That's why it's very good that it's being presented from a consensual committee that we're some about fighting terrorism. We're also going to be able to fight the cause of it in the long run, which is probably the difference in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e770	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2803]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e786	Gunhild Eyegen is the rapporteur on the matter, but Haakon Blankenborg will refer the matter to her.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e789	I suppose that would be something similar to the words of the vice presidents! This message deals with the General Assembly and what has happened. Nevertheless, the comments may be linked to the UN in its health – the Security Council too. The comments of the Committee should probably also be read in this way. One of the main objectives here is to point to one of the dilemmas both for the General Assembly and for the Security Council, namely the issue of trust that the UN can address by making many decisions that it has difficulty implementing. There are two comments to make. The only thing is that a person should, of course, show some caution in pushing forward decisions that are difficult to implement. It is certainly a call that can naturally go to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and those who administer it, but also more generally to those who participate in the political change of words both at home and internationally. Many decisions may not be what benefit or benefit the United Nations if they are unable to implement the decisions. The second is, of course, that one must, as far as possible, implement the decisions that are being made, and in particular those that are linked to the Security Council. There I would like to draw attention to an aspect which is particularly important and which has emerged in the debate also recently. Can't subtract comparisons from one cause to another. Not only will it be undermining the UN, but it can also lead us into many dangerous situations if we think there are two international situations that are so identical that we can only lead the decision from one to the other. Each individual situation and decision must be assessed separately. Decisions taken must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Thus, some automation cannot be used. This is a comment as much as the usual political change here as it is a comment on what the Government has been dealing with – even more so is a comment on the general public change of words. Just as fully, it says that a dilemma that I believe the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are taking very seriously, but as there is reason to take up, and that is that in a few things that are mentioned in the setting, it is a long jump from the decisions that are made, to the situation on the ground, I would have almost said. There is one liability in the Middle East, Palestine/Israel conflict, where one has very specific decisions that are not in the vicinity of being fulfilled. This applies, for example: the question of the occupation of the Palestinian territories. With this I do not say that it is such that an automatic coercive action should be taken in relation to the parties – initially Israel, but there is also another party to this, if coercive action should be taken. That's not the point. The point is that it is on the United Nations trust that one has such clear decisions that one is unable to implement – if one cannot now get a pass on to the Middle East question. We take this up first and foremost to put our finger on this dilemma. Further pressure should be placed on finding a solution in the Middle East that is in line with the UN Decision. There is also another conflict area in this context, Western Sahara, where a similar one has decisions that are made, but where it draws out to have them implemented. In the same way, one meant to put one's finger on the dilemma both in relation to the situation in the area and in relation to the threat to the UN. This is the main point of the comments that are made here today. And it is desirable that this be followed up also in later debates and in publications from the Government on the activities of the United Nations and in foreign policy publications. I would like to mention one more point, which is very close to the fact that the Government will have to give some assessments of, and that is to manage the abstinence after one is no longer a member of the Security Council. It is clear that for Norway there will be many arenas gone, many meeting rooms that will be less accessible when one is finished in the Security Council compared to one in the years we were there. Of course, we do not demand a recipe from the Government in any way, but it is a situation that one must begin to anticipate, and which I believe the Foreign Minister will then do well for the Stortinget, if not now, so at a later date – we will get back to this in connection with distributions, budgets and the like. The time after the Security Council will be an important point to discuss with Stortinget. The last specific case I want to mention in this context is the fact that we have got the International Criminal Court in place – just enough with a little parallel to what was involved in the climate issue, that there is someone who will not be there. But fortunately, there are so many who want one set to start. Norway will then, as far as I can see, quite politically end up with this. There is no doubt that we should participate in this international criminal court. This leads to some problems that we get to deal with at a later time. One thing I want to point to is the time limit for the two criminal courts that are created. There has already been a signal, which has been withdrawn later, in relation to the Yugoslavia Court, and similar in the public change of words about the Rwanda Court. There is also a dilemma: whether a specific deadline should be set for the existence of these two courts, or whether they should complete the cases they have, and then be liquidated. We don't think it's wise to conclude either way. In other words, an easy court of law works, so that no guarantee can be given to those who are tempted to avoid the courts, to get away from them, by setting a specific deadline. Otherwise, this year, it's like last year's big deal about the content of the message, but it gives you the opportunity to look at some of the aspects of the UN work that we've done in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e819	The report of the UN General Assembly provides the Stortinget with an opportunity to look at the work of the UN in a broad perspective. In addition to the information provided by the rapporteur, the Central Party notes that the 56th General Assembly of the United Nations was also carried out with sound Norwegian efforts. We want to use this opportunity to mention an area that we believe it is per. Today, there is too little focus in the UN, and there is conflict prevention. In the mid-1990s, there was a great deal of attention and high expectations related to preventive diplomacy. It has been said that the work is demanding, and there are strong conflicts of interest. This does not mean that work should be set aside, so we would encourage the Government to increase its efforts in this field economically, but primarily politically within the framework of the UN. The ability to prevent a new Kosovo or Afghanistan will primarily prevent human suffering, but it will also reduce the need for resource-intensive international efforts. Conflict prevention is therefore wise in all respects. Despite the lack of political support for conflict prevention, it is gratifying to see the UN working hard to ensure better coherence between the traditional political and developmental work of the organisation. In our opinion, this is one of the most important areas for working in the UN reform context. The UN must act as a single system under one management at country level if work is to be effective and work on conflict prevention is to be carried out. Norway has put the theme of economic driving forces that cause conflict on the agenda of the United Nations. This is a current and forward-looking issue that the Government deserves to promote, and it is an important issue in terms of conflict prevention. We expect this work to continue beyond the membership period of the Security Council, and that should help to remove some of the withdrawals mentioned by the representative of Blankenborg. Finally, we will give the Minister of Foreign Affairs tribute for Norwegian efforts in the Presidential month of the Security Council. This was implemented in a solid and good way. Norwegian efforts were undoubtedly important in the context of the historical decisions relating to the Middle East. Now, no possibility must be left unbridled in relation to the follow-up to the Middle East resolutions. The non-implementation of resolutions will be of great harm to the Security Council and the United Nations. We expect an offensive attitude from the Government in the follow-up to these resolutions. The initiative of the UN Secretary-General must be supported by Norway. It has traditionally been the Norwegian spinal cord reflex to support the initiative of the UN Secretary-General. It should also be in the future. To give the impression that the Secretary-General of the United Nations is promoting unconsidered initiatives, as was done in the context of the Secretary-General’s proposal to send a force to the Middle East, helps undermine the authority of the Secretary-General. It's not Norway that's served.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e834	It is not difficult to join in the brilliance that both the Foreign Minister and the U.D. and – I kept saying – everyone who has contributed to Norwegian good work in the UN has received. It's easy to join. A few comments to SV comments about UN work. It is a good thing that we believe that 'Enduring Freedom' going on in Afghanistan has not been sufficiently anchored in the United Nations. We thought that this is a sign of a little bit by itself from the U.S. side, that there's a little bit of a signal out there and that here it's more unilateral than multilateral thinking. There we thought that the government should push the United States even more into the United Nations track that we all believe in. Then we thought we were going to play a double role when we were in Afghanistan, both in the war and in peace. In our opinion, SV should have kept to the peace process. It's in our view where Norway can make the greatest and best effort. Then it is – whether we like it or not – a kind of reorientation when we have Norwegian troops in Kyrgyzstan. We have an airbase there, we participated there. We know that there are economic interests in Central Asia. We know that there might be a pipeline through Afghanistan osb. So it's a new orientation that we in Stortinget must at least follow very closely, because Norway as a nation is not going to be dragged into a so-called new out of area operation. We're going to think that Norway is a small country, and we're interested in keeping the small countries of Central Asia free without the United States taking too much action, perhaps with financial interests in mind, to control the Central Asian region.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e845	To the last post: it seemed as if the representative Jacobsen thought that the freedom of the Central Asian countries was somehow threatened by American presence in the area. I hope the reality wasn't what it sounded like. Jacobsen knows very well that the central Asian countries and the international coalition stand together in the fight against terrorism, that is the point. Neither have I – I have to admit – fully grasped the SV's comments relating to Afghanistan, because there is no doubt that what the Americans and Norway are doing in ‘Enduring Freedom’ has a basis in the UN decisions and follows the UN Charter rules on self-defence. So there's no contradiction between this and the rest of us in Afghanistan. The point is, of course, that Taliban and Al Qaeda are being recaptured. I hope for the longest time that the representative Jacobsen believes that it is right to do so, something else would be very alarming. It's not like this is an operation that the United Nations has wanted to take over, if Jacobsen would believe it. So a few comments about Haakon Blankenborg's posts, and then just in and out to say that I fully agree with the comments he made. I think that is definitely a dilemma for the UN and the UN Security Council to what extent resolutions are to be adopted. The UN Security Council is also facing the danger of inflation, but I think it was very important that we have adopted resolutions on the Middle East in March, so that the Security Council re-entered the Middle East conflict. But that doesn't mean that how many resolutions are a good idea, and I believe Blankenborg and I agree that the UN Security Council will adopt resolutions, it must be at the moment that one can work towards a consensus on something, so that the Council stands together; then one is most effective. Some of Norway’s votes have just been based on that reasoning. The fact that some of the resolutions have not been implemented to the point and pointed out, I fully agree with Blankenborg in is absolutely very worrying, and it requires a follow-up so that they are implemented. But that doesn't mean they've been meaningless. Just the resolutions on the Middle East, I think, illustrate this well, in particular the first resolution, which was adopted early in March, which makes it clear both that there is a vision that the two states should live side by side in security, and that the Saudi initiative was supported. Both parts were important political signals, which in many ways are under way in the future work of the conflict. So, even if the resolutions are not implemented to the full, nevertheless, there are important elements in these resolutions that have had political significance. That's why I want to nuance the picture right at this point. When it came to Åslaug Hagas' remarks, I have nothing essential to say to them, except one, where I almost got the impression that when the UN Secretary-General promotes a proposal, it is inappropriate to ask questions about the unexplained aspects of the ideas. That is how Åslaug Haga presented it. I hope for the longest time that that's not what she meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e858	The Minister of Foreign Affairs agreed with the views of the representative of Blankenborg on the UN, and I must say that I do not share the foreign minister's views there. I find it difficult to follow Blankenborg's reasoning, in particular with regard to courts and UN courts, whether time limits should be set, or whether to complete the cases before the courts. It is quite clear that you have to finish the matters that are going on, no matter how long it takes. In the case of the Rwandan Criminal Courts, a national court, the so-called Gacaca Panel, has been established, and since last year, judges have been trained for it. It's more based on the old African system of showing around some trees. That's the way it must be, because the work on these matters that is going on there now would, if you were to use ordinary courts, have taken over a hundred years, and so long the 120,000 prisoners who are now in prison under very dire conditions in Rwanda cannot wait. Most have now been sitting there for almost eight years without law and judgment, and many are innocent – who do you not know until that process has been completed? In the Committee's opinion, it should be noted, inter alia, that: Norway has actively supported the criminal courts of Rwanda and former Yugoslavia and the establishment of such a permanent international court under the auspices of the United Nations. Then you don't have to think of it as becoming an international, permanent case in the Gacaca system. That's just what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e865	The Committee's attitude is essentially unanimous, and it is natural and in line with tradition. What is happening in the United Nations, and the role of Norway in the United Nations, has rarely been the basis for the major controversy in Norwegian foreign policy. However, when I ask for the word to a small comment, it is because it is something that I find difficult to understand in the way SV, on the one hand, has written together with the Committee on Other Matters in all essential matters, but at the same time wants to lift its own dome. Making the two things go together thoughtfully is not quite easy. Firstly, SV notes that the actions in Afghanistan do not have sufficient grounding in the United Nations system. It is difficult to understand, because Resolution 1368, to which the Committee refers, is quite clear to the sun and not to misunderstand on this point, and a clearer anchoring than it is difficult to imagine. Therefore, it would be interesting if SV could elaborate on the further anchoring in the form of UN decisions that would be possible or desirable as a basis for what has happened in Afghanistan. The second comment from the SV is even more strange, as it says that Norway has taken on an unfortunate dual role by both participating in and participating in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation and at the same time participating in the humanitarian effort in Afghanistan. What you're asking is: is this a particular point of view that concerns Norway, unlike any other nation in this world, or does SV think the same thing about other nations? Does this mean, for example: that it is considered reprehensible that the United States, which has borne the bulk of the burden of the military operation that has ended the Taliban regime, is really unqualified to participate in humanitarian work and should therefore preferably not provide money or any other kind of humanitarian work effort at all? What about England, which is the other country that has made a significant military effort? Should they, in the opinion of the SV, also refrain from participating in humanitarian work? Or is this something that only applies to Norway? Is the last rest of the dream of different countries that Norway is the only country in the world that needs to keep its path clean?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e876	The biggest burden that is being borne by the Afghanistan War is the 3,000–4,000 civilians in Afghanistan who are already dead. Of course, we can also bring with us the terrible event that triggered this, where civilians too were killed in New York and Washington. We're trying to get an alternative to using war, that weapons should always be the way we react. Some of the problem with our culture is that we have too many weapons. Weapons are our language, and that's what we're using. SV is trying at least to be an alternative to the way you think about it. For once in a row, that particular spiral must also stop. I am sure that the United Nations will also be able to be the one who can take the initiative for this. The UN is sometimes abused, not least by the United States, which, in its view, uses the UN when it suits them. When not matching, one should not include the UN. We also see that in other contexts. That's why we've put in the little note about it. But otherwise, it's good to see that also pay has come with the fact that SV is very much behind the plurality of the committee, but we had a couple of wedge angles to the U.S.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e887	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e895	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e902	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade at the Storting meeting on 14 May 2002 on IT policy be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e929	Here the Progress Party has notified that they wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e944	During the debate, Mr Swensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Coastal Party. The proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that Stortinget contact the parliaments of the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland with a view to discussing whether there is a basis for Norwegian membership of the Western Norwegian Council.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Presidentship of the Stortinge without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21.ana.ud1541e999	There is no record.
