ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e27	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e36	St. pp. No 36, On certain organisational changes etc. in the defence, mainly deals with three things: establishment of the Sanitary Location of the Military Medical Education and Competence Centre of the Defence – MUKLocalisation of the Dog School of the Defence The proposals are based on the broad guidelines discussed at the end. S. No 342 for 2000-2001, cf. St. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001. The proposals presented in the proposal are intended to lead to investments of 234 million. kr and a saving potential of 95 years’ worth compared to today’s organisation. A common defence implies that the various parts of the strength structure and activities of the defence are aligned. Such a whole contributes to the efficient use of resources and gives freedom of action to expand our defence if and when necessary. So to the three points. I choose the location of the Defense Dog School first. The Committee agrees that the Defence Dog School is subject to the Inspector General of the Army and is co-located with the training and competence centres of the Army’s logistical unit at Sessvollmoen/Hauerseter. The Committee also agrees that Seiersten should be dropped as from 1 January 2003. That being said, we in the Committee are also very conscious of and expect the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Culture to follow up, among other things. as regards supervision and day-to-day activities at Oscarsborg fastening. Oscarsborg's role as a memorial must be preserved, even if the defence was no longer to be present in the same way. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party refer to their comments on the possible transfer of the Defence Dog School to Østerdal garrison, but do not propose this at this stage. So to the next point -- creation of a joint sanitary organization. It proposes to establish the health of the defence as the top health professional body in the defence by 31 December 2004. This is done in order to have a more efficient and timely sanitary organisation. Sanitary resources are thus brought together under a single professional management. The basis for the new organisation will be today's health loss in the Defence Overcommand without logistical and personnel elements. These have been transferred to the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Swedish Defence Agency respectively. That part of the health and veterinary services field common to all defence sectors is brought together in a military medical training and competence centre, as the Stortinget has previously decided. The defence-limited sanitary elements of the staffs are reduced to an extent and adapted to the new sanitary organisation. The establishment of the Defence Sanitation will thus preserve the military/weapon-type/service-field sanitary status of all defence sectors as well as the Home Security. The army's sanitation can therefore be laid down. The Committee agrees, but will refer to a comment in the Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 where it says: ‘The majority assume that diving medical competence remains in Haacon protection.’ The Committee agrees with this note and considers that existing naval medical competence, in addition to aero-medical and other special medical competence, remains as localised on the basis of the current structure, in order to ensure that such vigilance is maintained. So to the last point -- locating the MUKS. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal for a location on Sessvollmoen, because it gives a positive present value of approx. 183 million. kr in relation to the Terningmoen and that the sanitary requirements provide for Sessvollmoen to be chosen as a location option. A minority, the Advance Party and the Center Party, believe that the Terningmo is the best option for a choice of places. These parties are critical of the economic calculations, and think about them. 685 million. kr in the process of being invested on the Terningmoen. Here, these parties believe that the implementation of the MUKS is fully possible, and thus you will get a calculation that benefits the Terningmoen financially. The second point is that these parties also believe that the medical profession is similar to what Sessvollmoen can offer, and could point to the significant documented hospital and sanitary facilities existing in the region of the inner East. The use of videoconferencing, telemedicine and e-mail is also pointed out, and therefore geographical distances should not be an obstacle. As a third point in favour of the Terningmoen, I would like to mention the proximity to Østerdal garrison. I would like to make the following suggestions from the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: «Military Medical Education and Competence Centres shall be located at the Terningmoen by 31 December 2004. [[MUKS]] Lahaugmoen clay shall be deposited by the same date.» Otherwise, I refer you to the committee's recommendation in three points.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e88	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e91	A small note from the Workers' Party. We support the proposal from the Government. The Defence Sanitation Service has undergone several reorganisations. The aim has been to create timely, effective coordination of sanitation resources, as well as to develop medical competence in close cooperation with civil health. In order for the Defence to have an effective and timely sanitary organisation, it is necessary, in the view of the Workers' Party, to pool the sanitary resources under a single professional management. The basis for the new organisation will be today's sanitation loss in the Defence Command – FO/SAN. The area of sanitary and veterinary services common to all defence sectors is grouped together in a Centre of Military Medical Education and Competences – MUKS – as decided by the Stortinget during the treatment of Innst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001. The MUKS will be under the command of the head of the new sanitary organisation. In addition to military medical questions, the Sanitary of the Defence shall also take care of the link between the defence and the civil part of the medical disciplines. This is the case in relation to both education and special professional issues that require point-of-skills in a small professional environment. Therefore, trade marks belonging to the health of the defence may be physically located in relation to an external trade union environment. Such disciplines will be, for example, aviation medicine and maritime medicine, naval medicine. These are continued as part of the MUKS, but can continue their current activities in current locations based on the current structures to ensure that such important tipping skills are maintained. I refer to the comments in the setting regarding the occupational health service. The Workers' Party and I believe that Section 30 of the Working Environment Act is not being fulfilled with the changes that the majority are in favour of. I believe that protection and health professionals need to have a free and independent position on occupational health and safety issues when the health and safety manager is given the professional authority. I fully agree with the Committee's comments on the Oscarsborg fastening and expect the Council of State to follow up this matter, and that the Council of State will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner with an overview of the facilities that the Defense is putting into mill bags or phases out, so that the Storting gets an overview of how the Government thinks about their use. I am aware that today it is the fortress museum and coastal artillery museum in Oscarsborg that is managed by the Defence Museum. These things will probably also be possible in many places in Norway, so I hope the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e104	I should just like to make a few brief comments on what the rapporteur has already informed us about. In relation to the location of MUKS, the proposition states that emphasis is placed on both ‘professional arguments and economic consequences’ when selecting Sessvollmoen as a location. From the majority of the Committee, it is established, in the same way as from the minority, that there are actually questions as to whether the calculations give rise to a positive present value of 183 million. kr for the benefit of Sessvollmoen, is correct in the light of what is now also being invested. There's every reason to ask questions about the correctness of these calculations. Secondly, proximity to other relevant medical environments is used as an argument for the Sessvollmoen relative to the Terningmoen. In plain text, this means that it is the proximity of Oslo and the commuting distance of Oslo and the proximity of medical environments in Oslo at the bottom of the argument that is being put forward here. It's an argument that I have a big problem with joining. There are also good medical environments in the Østerdalen and in connection with the Oesterdalen hospital, where exchange rates can be drawn. The same type of argument about proximity to Oslo can also be used in a number of other contexts, which will make it impossible to get the same high level of competence in other parts of the country that you expect to get just to put things close enough to Oslo. This is an argument I have understood that both this government and actually a large proportion of the parties here at Stortinget are taking a distance from. You want to outsource functions from Oslo to the rest of the country, and then I assume that it is also possible to acquire professional competence where it has to be done. Then there has been some disagreement in the Committee on whether or not the organisation of occupational health services is contrary to the Working Environment Act. I assume that the department does not add up to an organisation of the occupational health service that would be contrary to the Working Environment Act, and therefore find no reason to spend more time on it or to join the Workers' Party and SV's remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e117	This proposition concerns some of the elements of the Defence that remained unexplained after the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 in the previous period. There is a great need for radical changes in defence to be able to respond to the challenges facing it, not least in the light of the end of the Cold War, and that this society is facing other threats, such as possible future terrorist attacks against an increasingly vulnerable society. SV is of the opinion that more than enough financial resources are allocated to the Defence in this country and that it is a major challenge to use the resources allocated, in a way that provides a rational defence that solves the real challenges facing the Defence. Furthermore, SV believes that these premises must determine where structural elements should be located and not regional policy considerations. I'm not going to pre-empt the handling of any of the issues we're going to deal with before the summer that deals with the defence structure or other ways of dealing with our vulnerability, but I find that there is still considerable room for more rational operation and savings in the defense. This case concerns the establishment of the Defence Sanitation, the location of the Military Medical Training and Competence Centre and the transfer of the Defense Dog School. It is important that the defence has an effective and timely sanitary organisation, and it is necessary to pool the sanitation resources under a joint professional management. For me, it is important that the part of the health and veterinary services field that is common to all defence sectors be brought together in a military medical education and competence centre, and that this is located strategically in order to serve the entire defence structure effectively. So, Sessvollmoen is a good alternative. As Leif Lund, I would like to make it clear that existing diving medical competence, as well as aero-medical and other special medical competence, remains where they are currently located, to ensure that the important tipping competence is maintained. The relationship with the occupational health service in the new structure is an important topic, and I refer to the comment that Leif Lund also presented. SV supports the rest of the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e136	The government's objective of balancing structure and funding, giving the level of defence a boost and strengthening the pointed end means that operating costs must be reduced and resources released into priority activities. Here's St. prp. No 36, On certain organisational changes etc. in the Defence, an important step on the road. The proposals will require significant investments, but have an overall savings potential of 95 annual works compared to today’s organisation. In addition, the proposals for the sale of Lahaugmoen open clay and Seiersten quickly at market prices. The proposal to establish the health of the defence is an example of an effective and forward-looking solution. The new organisation will pool all the sanitation resources in the Defence under a single professional management. It strengthens the ability to coordinate the use of professional competences and materials both internally in defence and in relation to civil society. The proposal implies that the health of the defence is to premise both for the sanitary service at the strategic and operational level throughout the defence, for the peace-keeping service and for the occupational health service. The terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September showed that international terrorism is a serious threat. Preparedness for radiological, biological or chemical terrorism is an important challenge. The defence shall identify and meet different types of attacks, both against Norway as a nation, against Norwegian and foreign military departments in Norway and against Norwegian forces involved in international operations. Therefore, the defence, in cooperation with civil institutions, must have an effective sanitary organisation with the necessary medical point competence. It requires close cooperation between small, highly specialised medical environments on the civil and military sides. The proposition therefore suggests that military sanitary units can be co-located or integrated into civil disciplines or hospitals. By proposing to the military medical education and competence centre – MUKS – located in Sessvollmoen, the Government has taken into account both professional and economic factors. The Sessvollmo provides the best economy compared to the other alternatives, which are the Terningmoen, Haslemoen and Lahaugmoen. Thus, the calculation criteria used are the Land Standards of Defence Building, and the same unit price has been used for the different location options of the MUKS. It is an advantage that MUKS is located in conjunction with military promoters and sponsors. The Sessvollmo has the necessary proximity to the trade union environment, both military and civil. In addition, co-location with the Training and Competence Centre of the Army’s logistic weapon – LOGUKS – at Sessvollmoen will provide significant administrative clearance. Because the expertise of the defence is developed from the civil disciplines, it is important that the MUKS is located close to them. The government's proposal to move the Defense Dog School from Seiersten quickly to Sessvollmoen is a consequence that there will no longer be military activity at Oscarsborg. The possibilities of providing administrative support to the dog school have thus been lost. In addition to Sessvollmoen, Østerdal garrison, Rygge Main Aviation Station and Heistandmoen have been considered as location alternatives. The location of the dog school at Sessvollmoen provides economic, professional and operational benefits, including: as a result of co-localisation with LOGUKS and MUKS. The Sessvollmo is clearly the most reasonable option, especially because there is little need for initial investment. At the same time, I would like to stress what several speakers have been about before me: the need to take care of Oscarsborg in particular. I can stress that in the case of Oscarsborg, the interest in establishing different types of business has been great, and I would like to add that stakeholders as well as administrators go into the work with great reverence for the historical values that the site represents. There is also something I attach great importance to, and I would like to come back with an information to the committee as that matter evolves further. The defence needs a stable and predictable framework in order to implement the conversion. I am therefore very pleased that such a broad majority in the Committee has joined the Government's proposals. There have also been several speakers who have been concerned with occupational health issues, and I would of course like to stress that protection and health professionals will continue to have their free and independent position on work environment issues, as determined by the Working Environment Act § 30. There will be no change from today's scheme, where the occupational health service is subject to the CEO FO/P&Ø. The proposal in St.prp. No 36 covers exclusively the professional responsibility and authority of BHT, i.e. not independence from the Working Environment Act § 30. Thank you to the Committee for a good attitude and for a broad majority behind the Government's proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e164	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e167	It is interesting to note that what is adopted today in connection with the establishment of a common health organisation and the location of the military medical education and competence centre – MUKS – to Sessvollmoen, was the proposal presented by the government of Stoltenberg to the Minister of Defence Godal. It was only the Labour Party that voted for this last June. That's why it's tempting to say, what did we say? But I also note that the debate on the calculations is still going on in the defence committee, and I hope for the committee's sake that they will not spend the same amount of time discussing the calculations as the committee did in the previous period. There is no doubt that the Sessvollmo will now appear as the total educational location of the Defence Agency, when two new training courses are now being located here. In June 2001, we decided to place the Training and Competence Centre of the Army's Train Arms, a joint centre of competence for the training of drivers and the Defence Police School here, and now follows up one with the location of both the MUKS and the Defence Dog School. That's good. The location of the dog school has been difficult, especially because one with this decision eliminates the last military activity at the Oscarsburg fortress. This means that a large part of Oscarsborg will now be empty, and that it will no longer be the same watchman on the fastening as it has been. Oscarsborg has great historical value, and it is an area that one should still have certain restrictions around. For us in Akershus, it would be a disaster if one were to make it possible to have free access to the area, with access to add boats and use of disposable barbecues in the summer. A fire in this area could have disastrous consequences. That is why I am very pleased that a unanimous committee expects the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Culture to follow up on supervision and day-to-day operations. We who live in Akershus are concerned that there is going to be an establishment in the buildings, but that activity must not degrade today's Oscarsborg. We will therefore follow developments closely, and we hope that the two departments mentioned here will work hard to establish appropriate activities there. I am also pleased with the words that the Council of State made in its contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e178	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2255]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e194	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e203	This case concerns the financing of Norwegian participation in Afghanistan, diplomatic presence in Kabul and national security measures against terrorism – St.prp. No 39 for 2001-2002, which the Government sent to the Stortinget on 15 February this year. The Committee is composed of the majority of comments and the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for changes to the State budget presented in the bill. The Socialist Left Party has its own comment and proposal for a cap. 1792 which they themselves will explain. The background to this matter being put on the agenda is the events on 11 September last year. The terrorist attacks in the United States showed that our modern and open society is vulnerable. It also demonstrated that terrorist attacks can have a cruel effect. The threat picture became too many both new and very unclear, which caused fear in the population around the world. Already on 12 September, NATO declared that the terrorist attack triggered the alliance's commitment to collective defence. Article 5 of the Atlantic Treaty states that attacks on one of the members of the Alliance shall be regarded as an attack on all members of the Alliance. On the same day – 12 September – the UN Security Council, in Security Resolution 1368, demonstrated that the right to self-defence was valid in this situation. The Norwegian Government immediately gave its support to the United States and made a general offer of support in line with our alliance commitments in NATO. The United States presented convincing evidence that the Al-Qaeda network was behind the terrorist attacks, and NATO's council declared that they considered the terrorist attack to be led by an external actor. Al-Qaida's leadership and main bases were located in Afghanistan, where they were openly supported by the Taliban regime. The Taliban repeatedly refused to hand over the leaders of al-Qaida. The U.S. formed a broad international coalition for a campaign against terrorism. It was important that the alliance was as broad as possible, not least to focus on the fact that it was a fight against terrorism, not a campaign against the Muslim world, and on 7 October the coalition, with the United States and the United Kingdom at the head, launched a military operation aimed at the terrorist network and the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. The Norwegian Government presented a list of Norwegian military units for coalition operations and the offer was formalised by the Royal Resolution of 14 December 2001. On the basis of Norway’s alliance commitments, Norwegian participation was early on. Norway participates in both the ‘Enduring Freedom’ and the International Security Force to stabilise the situation in and around Kabul. In the Chapter of Proposition. 2 there is a clear review of what Norway is participating in of strength contributions, units, joint capacities and marine participation, so I am not going into it in detail. The majority of the Committee agrees with the proposal on Norwegian participation in international operations. The majority of the Committee has noted that the strengths of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation are of very high quality, which is reassuring to know when it is such a particularly difficult but important task. In connection with the deployment of the new interim government in Kabul on 22 December, Norway chose to mark this by establishing diplomatic presence in Kabul. It clearly shows that Norway wants to support the political process in Afghanistan. The political and practical coordination of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan is also transferred to Kabul. In addition, Norway has the Presidency of the Afghanistan donor country group in 2002, giving Norway a central role in the very important reconstruction work in the country. Long-term diplomatic presence will also be important in relation to Norwegian personnel, whether military, humanitarian or other personnel, in Afghanistan. Norwegian alliance obligations make it absolutely necessary for Norway to contribute to the fight against international terrorism. At the same time, the preparedness for terrorism means that the defence is charged exceptional additional costs to national security measures. Fear of terrorist acts was high after 11 September. National authorities around the world immediately implemented security measures to protect the civilian population, critical infrastructure and military capabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e239	I just have a few short notes. The terrorist attacks against Twin Towers and the Pentagon on 11 September may have shown more clearly how we in the security and defence policy must be prepared for what I would call the unforeseeable, which in the short term can change both the balance of power and the international situation. But 11 September also showed us that defence policy is not what it once was, to the extent that it has ever been. 12 September showed us internal solidarity in NATO, when the alliance decided to apply Article 5 which also gave Norway alliance obligations. On the basis of NATO’s decision to use Article 5 and the broad international coalition against terrorism that took shape in the world community, there was a broad majority in the Norwegian Parliament for participation in the fight, including participation in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. The Workers’ Party has given the Government its full support in dealing with this matter, and the current position of the Defence Committee concerns the necessary additional appropriations for Norwegian participation in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation as well as national safeguards against terrorism and the establishment of diplomatic presence in Kabul. I would also like to refer to the full statement by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e248	Like the representative, Mrs Nybakk, I would like to refer mainly to the rapporteur's statement which covered all the essential points. I would rather use the time to express some somewhat personal reactions to the terrible terrorist attacks that we experienced in the United States on 11 September. They showed the vulnerability of a modern society and the cruel effects of this kind of action, as the case-rapporteur well described it. Even I experienced what was originally meant to be an unparalleled joy, that of spending four weeks in the United Nations from mid-October, and that is, I came to the United States pretty soon after these estimates. One of the things that was particularly eye-catching was the intrusive determination of American society: we don't intend to let this break us off. It was a decision-making process and an attitude that I think has had to impress everyone who has been in the United States since 11 September, and that the nation has a very strong reason to be proud of. Then I must be allowed to say that modern technological developments have made it possible, while you are in New York, to have daily access to Norwegian press. The difference between the position in the United States and the position in parts of the Norwegian environment was so great that you should think you were on two very different cloths. I don't even want to conceal that in particular the reactions of parts of the Norwegian Bishops' College in these dramatic weeks made a very strong impression while we were in the United States and saw how the American society took care of the situation that had arisen. It was bad to see how it was possible for people who knew about society in Norway time and time again and again to make mistakes in everything they said and all they did. Is it possible to find something positive in such a dramatic event as the one we had in Washington and New York on September 11th? Yes, the positive thing is to see how international solidarity is taking place in practice, and in particular how it has already appeared in practice in the NATO Alliance on 12 September. The NATO alliance has been a cornerstone of Norwegian security policy every year after the war. Hardly any of us had well in our wildest imagination imagined that it was an estimate against the United States that would trigger for the first time Article 5 of the Atlantic Pact, on which we have built our peace and independence. It was good that we could give something back, that we have been able to participate in an operation that gives a little bit back for what we have to thank the United States for. Finally, I would like to express my unreserved support to the Norwegian soldiers who are now participating in the operation. Once again, we have seen some strange attitudes in parts of Norway, that this should almost fade out like a slightly expanded speeding trip, where you should have full insight into everything. It is with great pleasure that I record that both the Defence and our political leadership insist that we should have the openness in Norway over which Norwegian society is proud, but at the same time we should not have a misunderstanding about the security of the Norwegian forces in any way. We're a little country. We have small units. It is easy to identify people and their families in Norway if we do not take into account the seriousness of this case. We do, and it serves the defence to the honor, and it serves the political leadership of the defense and the Norwegian people to the honor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e259	The situation in Afghanistan is very unclear after more than seven months of bombing. The humanitarian situation of the civilian population is very difficult. Norway is involved in waging war in a country where people barely remember peace. At the top of war and drought the country was hit by an earthquake recently, and many lives were lost. There are still very tough battles between the US-led forces and al-Qaeda and Taliban-friendly forces. It is far from a stable situation in this war-torn country. Norway participates in active warfare in this country. At the same time, we are part of an international security force, and we are leading the process of coordinating international assistance to Afghanistan. In December last year, SV went against Norway providing forces under American command in Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. On the other hand, we supported Norway's contribution to the international security force in Kabul. Today the bill is due. SV has been in favour of additional funding for the international security force, diplomatic presence in Kabul, the common costs of the two operations and exceptional preparedness and security measures. These are important and necessary measures. However, in the case of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, SV does not wish to propose an additional allocation in that context. There are several reasons for this. We want to point out that we are opposed to Norwegian participation in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, but we also believe that there is room to cover these expenditures within the budget, a budget that, in the SV's view, is too extensive and goes at the expense of important tasks in other sectors. SV believes that Norway can afford to contribute to international peace and security. But in this area, as in everyone else, we must demand the results of the funds we grant. At the moment, what is achieved in Afghanistan with the Norwegian contribution to the strength is very unclear. The main reason for this lies in the very poor information work done by the Government, combined with a relatively small active Norwegian press. Norway shall participate, inter alia: with a number of winter specialists. It is understandable that there will be some secrecy around these soldiers. But when Norway participates in a war, it is not acceptable that all sides of this war be kept secret. SV is not alone in this criticism. Both Dagbladet, VG and Evening Post have criticised for the lack of willingness to inform us from the Defence Department and the Ministry of Defence. We also find it strange that the Minister of Defence has not wanted to involve the Storting more. It is now more than five months since the decision to provide strength support to the United States was adopted here in the United States. The size has also neglected to demand information, but we believe that the Council of State could also take the initiative to inform. Since the Norwegian contribution to the strength, the Minister of Defence has not made an open presentation. If the drum is joined together to meet in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, it will not meet the need for more information to Norwegian press and publicity. In particular, with regard to the operations of the Special Forces, the Minister of Defence has refused to inform the press and the media of what is actually happening. A short time ago, I gave the Minister of Defense a written question as to whether the Council of State would keep the public constantly informed about the consequences of the efforts of the Norwegian forces in the operations. The answer was disappointing. The Minister of Defence had no plans to improve the information. The Council of State does not want to inform about what is happening in certain operations in Afghanistan for the sake of the lives and security of the Norwegian soldiers, she says in her last letter of reply of 8 April. I find it amazing that the concern for the lives and security of the soldiers makes it impossible for the Council of State to inform about the losses or injuries of its own and others' personnel or taken prisoners of war. Providing such information is probably the smallest, but also the most important, information that can be provided on the results of the action of our special forces in the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation. Norway has therefore provided strengths for operations in Afghanistan to help find Osama bin Laden and neutralise the al-Qaida network. It's been five months. The Taliban regime has now been removed, a transitional regime has been put in place, bin Laden is gone, and there are still hard fights going on every day. It is possible that results have been achieved that can help reduce the international terrorist threat, but it may also be that, as a result of both this war and the Middle East conflict, new terrorists are recruited every day. It is currently very difficult to see what objectives need to be achieved and how they are to be achieved in order to complete the operations. In the past, the United States has had bitter experiences of getting stuck in long-standing conflicts with GHGs as opponents. The Soviet Union made animal-purchased experiences in Afghanistan. Can the Minister of Defence today give any indication as to how long the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation may be? What are the success criteria now being worked on? What are the most important results so far? I hope the Minister of Defense will answer these questions and use this opportunity to provide the Storting and the public with the minimum of information necessary for us to form a picture of what war Norway is in and how it is possible for us to participate with forces both for war and for peace in one country. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e282	The representative of Bjørklund has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President would also like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that, after reaching political objectives, he has to be careful not to disclose classified information.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e287	The centre party has supported Norwegian participation in the operations now taking place in Afghanistan, and we therefore have no objections to the proposal for funding available. In fact, the Center Party has not done it with the same admiration for the U.S. reaction pattern as the Bjørn Hernæs did here. I actually believe it is acceptable to agree that you should participate in operations and that you should distance yourself from the kind of terrorist acts that we saw in the United States, without being blind to the argument that there might actually be other ways to react to them than the one you have chosen. Enough about that. This occasion also gives me the opportunity to say a few words about something else that concerns me in connection with what is going on in Afghanistan. It focuses on the handling of issues related to information on participation by the Defence and State Councils. On 23 March, the Minister for Defence replied to questions concerning whether the Defence Committee was informed: ‘The Minister of Defence shall always attend meetings of the Defence Committee if desired.’ This is not good enough, and I would also like to express that in this debate. I assume that on an independent basis, the Minister of Defense will consider when it would be necessary and sensible to inform the Storting in the way that the Council of State considers most appropriate. The Committee should not go to the State Council and ask for information in different contexts. I think it might be a nuisance both for the Committee and for the State Council if the Committee is to feel uncertain about the provision of relevant information and that the initiative should be with the Committee. The Council of State has an independent responsibility to ensure that it is done, and I do not find that answer satisfactory. Fortunately, it is not daily food that Norwegian forces participate in war operations like this, and especially not under the command of other countries – in this case the United States. On 13 March Per Høiby said to the Defence Command: "We do not know what kind of mission our soldiers can be sent out on." This is also not satisfactory, and I assume that the Minister of Defense does not accept that the defence does not have close contact and remains informed about the kind of mission our soldiers are involved in. We know, for example. that the interpretation and practice of international humanitarian law by the United States does not always correspond to that of the Norwegian authorities. We also know that the United States has not signed the agreement prohibiting the use of landmines, and also several of the additional protocols to the Geneva Convention. This implies that I assume that close contact is maintained with the Norwegian forces present in Afghanistan, that they are informed of what they are participating in, and that the Minister of Defence ensures, on an independent basis, that the information the Minister of Defence considers relevant to give to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e308	I would first like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that there is a broad majority in the Stortinget that supports the ongoing operations in Afghanistan, where Norwegian soldiers participate under considerable risk. This was the case when the matter was in Stortinget on 5 December last year, and on the basis of the very broad support, where all parties except SV agreed that we should participate, that we should comply with our obligations in Article 5, we were also formalised an offer in one kilogram. Resolution of 14 December. Article 5 of NATO has been the backbone of the Norwegian defence. And NATO just declared after the terrorist attack that Article 5 had been triggered. On the same day, in Resolution 1368 of the Security Council, the United Nations showed that the right to self-defence prevailed in this situation. Norway participates with a number of special forces, 16 miners' specialists and a C-130 transport aircraft in cooperation with the Netherlands, Denmark and Kyrgyzstan. In addition, we have a smaller national support element, and at the request of the United States, we have borrowed 15 light armoured carriages. The United Kingdom, which has been responsible for the international security force, has also received Norwegian contributions – a transport control unit of 10 persons and an explosive cleaner team of 15 persons. The proposition we are discussing today deals primarily with the financing of these contributions. It has been a preliminary period of three months. The proposal announced that some contributions have been extended to six and the Government has decided to continue all the offers it has made to ISAF and to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation to six months. This concerns both the mine clearances of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation and our contributions to ISAF. In addition, at the request of the United States, the Government enters to lend six further light armoured field vehicles for use in Afghanistan. With regard to the financing of the actions not being dealt with today, the Government will return to it in connection with the financing of the offer relating to F-16. Although the Taliban regime has fallen and al-Qaeda is weakened, the security situation is far from stable. The ISAF security force has improved the situation in Kabul, but in the rest of the country the situation is not satisfactory. Al-Qaida and the Taliban are located in a number of areas and the threat posed by the terrorist network is still considered to be significant. There is reason to believe that estimates are planned both against the coalition forces, the interim administration and international objectives. At the latest this weekend, the ISAF headquarters was attacked with missiles. This means that there will also need to be a strong focus on the safety of Norwegian forces and that the information will not be allocated to the public in a way that could endanger the lives of the North. In the case of the deployment of F-16 fighter aircraft, Norway offered, in accordance with the resolution of December, to cease four such aeroplanes. The enquiry has been received positively, and Norway plans to make the necessary preparations for this deployment together with the Netherlands and Denmark. However, there is still uncertainty about time and scope, and therefore we come back to Stortinget with a separate case of funding when the plans are clear. Air traffic cooperation between Norway, the Netherlands and Denmark is extensive. We are already participating in a joint deployment of C-130 transport aircraft in Manas, Kyrgyzstan. I want to add some comments related to our forces down there. They operate under significant risks, not least those involved in the UN Security Force, the ISAF Force. They operate closely within the local population, and it has been known through the media that there is actually a price on the heads of Norwegian participants and other allied participants, so that there is one thing that is important, that those who are down there know that they have broad support in this room, and that nothing we do weakens the security of those involved. The Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs come immediately to it from the Foreign Affairs Committee or the Defence Committee. Since 15 February, this matter relating to Afghanistan has been under discussion in the Defence Committee and the Committee has had full access to ask the Minister to come, at any time, from 15 February to today. I have not received any such enquiry, but I have close and good contact with the committee, and would of course come right away if such an enquiry had been made. The same is true of my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in relation to the Foreign Affairs Committee. There has been no desire from this government to hide information related to the enforcement of international obligations by Norway, it is obvious that Norway is taking part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e327	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e332	No, some line from the Advance Party in this case should not be necessary. I think the Council of State has put forward a very well-worked proposition, and she went through the matter in a very nice way. There's a lot of progress the Party has to pay attention to defence policy these days, but in this case I think the Council of State has acted very neatly, and she has, as I said, given very good information and presented a well-worked proposition. When something is positive and good there is also room for boasting from the Progress Party. On the occasion of the case, it has been criticised by the Council of State that she has not provided good enough information and has had enough transparency around the behaviour of Norwegian soldiers and the presence in Afghanistan. I find that very regrettable – an unjustified criticism in my opinion. There should be no comparison of a small country like Norway, transparent, few people and few soldiers, with the United States, where there is much more openness around this. Clearly, Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan are very vulnerable and easily recognizable, and there should be no need for us to put these people at risk, even in view of the families at home. There is also criticism that these operations in Afghanistan are not covered by the defence budget. That, of course, seems to me to be a completely groundless criticism. It was just supposed to be missing, after an already shaved budget, and looked at this at the top! That would completely destroy the defence budget. We also need to remember that the money we are going to give today is also going to help underpin the diplomatic presence in Kabul. I thought and believe that those who are opposed to these appropriations we are now going to give could be involved in the allocation of a diplomatic presence to support during the political process in Afghanistan. A diplomatic presence is important in relation to Norwegian personnel to act in Afghanistan. I hope that those who do not want to support the proposal for additional appropriations will at least see that this is important, and may help to cover up that part of the additional appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e344	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2255]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e360	Before we start the matter, the Council of State, Kristin Krohn Devold, has asked to provide brief information.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e363	Thank you for that. I would like to inform the House that I have sent a letter to the President, noting a misstatement made in the letter to the Defence Committee of 21 March, regarding the time when the contracts were signed. The same error related to the time was also mentioned by me in the Questionnaire on 9 January. In both cases, the time was estimated at spring 2001, while the correct time should be the autumn of 2001. In addition, I have specified the exact number of belt wagons that were contracted for scrapping, to 1514. I refer you to the letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e374	Then we can move on to the debate. At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. For the sake of order, the President will correct a mistake in the printed setting. The Chairman of the Committee has given the wrong name. Of course it should be Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e387	Hans J. Røss soil was probably an excellent committee leader, but it was in the previous period. So the current committee leader of the Defence Committee is Marit Nybakk. This Document No The 8-proposal deals with the pointless waste of the Community funds that we have seen through the destruction of the Defence Belt Car of type BV 202. Some of these vehicles are almost unused, and very many of the wagons that have been sent for destruction are in good working order. Many different arguments have been used for the destruction that was initiated. Environmental arguments have been used as high fuel consumption. Not least the fact that these vehicles used leaded petrol was used as an argument against sale, while last year the Defense sold a large number of Volvo field cars that can be registered and used on public roads – with exactly the same type of pollutant engine as on the belt wagons that they would not sell. It has also been said that the contracts were non-cancellable, and therefore it was not possible to terminate the contracts entered into. Both parts have been shown to be wrong. And I think it must be allowed to say that there has been a piece of work done by the defence in this matter. I have been contacted by organisations and individuals who have the same type of belt-car, BV 202, in their own ownership, and who have tried to buy spare parts for their vehicles, wagons used in auxiliary operations, rescue tasks for the community. The answer has been no. The Minister of Defence argued in an earlier question hour that it would be more expensive for the Defense if part of these wagons were to be taken. I hope the defense does not show a similar lack of cremation in other matters. What has happened here is unacceptable. I will not spend too much time on this matter, but I must say that the way you have handled this weakens the confidence of the Defence Council, and it also weakens the confidence of the Council of State. However, when the Committee chooses to attach the proposal to the protocol, it is because the Minister of Defence has taken the initiative to stop the destruction of these vehicles. We trust that the Minister of Defence is now dealing with this in a sensible way. It shall not necessarily mean that all wagons are to be sold. I do not ignore the fact that it may make sense to continue to destroy vehicles. But just after the Minister of Defense sent out the message that the remaining wagons were to be disposed of, and that the destruction would be stopped, the fatherland friend saw a look at the vehicles that were being destroyed. There it is said by Colonel Bjørn Rabben: “We have delivered everything we had from these vehicles, that is, 350.” And on the other hand, «We interpreted the situation so that since we had delivered everything according to our mission, we could not recall the few that had not yet been chopped up. In addition, the few have been injured.’ Then he concludes the interview by saying: ‘We made sure to get the job done quickly.’ I hope that this is not something that characterizes the defence in other contexts as well. In that case, it's simply scary that you can choose to handle values that way. I hope the Minister for Defence has received a lesson that makes her take a strong hold of the way this is handled by the Defence Department. For my own part, I would like to see some vehicles that go for social or non-profit purposes being given away. They don't necessarily have to be sold at a high price. Everything is better than destroying them. Everything is better than paying to have these vehicles destroyed, if they go for reasonable purposes and are used in a sensible way. I also assume that the Minister of Defense is dealing with this in a way that does not end up with someone buying all the wagons and thus getting a monopoly over sitting on a large number of wagons, and then selling them at very high prices to organisations that are going to do rescue tasks next time, for example, and doing community work. The Minister of Defence is given by the Committee an opportunity to deal with this in a way that is in the best interests of society, and thus also for the benefit of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e429	Let me first add a few comments to the statements of the Council of State and the letter of the Council of State to the President of the Grand Duchy dated 8 April, where she corrects errors in her reply in the Question Time on 9 January of this year and in a letter to the Committee on 21 March. We take note of this, but at the same time we would point out that a lot of work and many misunderstandings could have been avoided if the Council of State had already made it clear on 9 January that the excavation of BV 202, i.e. the end of the railcars, was to be stopped. The discrepancy between different answers and statements by the Council of State has not exactly made this matter better, I think. I would also like to join most of the points made by the rapporteur in this connection. So to the realities of the matter. We are all aware that the reorganisation and modernisation of the defence means that various equipment must be removed and thus disposed of. When that happens, it is necessary that it is done in such a way that most people are not left with the impression that the general public and the defence are especially vulnerable in their dealings with money. Especially at these times, with debate on the structure, volume and financing of the defence and questions of sub-financing, it is essential that there should not be an impression of extreme waste in that defence. I am also familiar with, among other things, that the Defence Logistics Organisation – or the then organisation – throughout the year 2000 explored the possibilities for selling belt wagons to NATO and PFP countries, i.e. the Partnership for Peace. I'm also familiar with everyone saying no, it's also part of this story. I am aware that the Baltic countries have said no to an offer to get the seatbelts for free. I also know that none of the major Norwegian humanitarian organisations wanted to take over the belt wagons when they were offered this in January 2001. It's also part of the story. It also belongs to this rather special case that the same belt wagons can be called to some gigantic environmental polluters and gas extinguishers, and that they are not allowed to be used in the field. Nevertheless, the entire committee believes that further destruction of the belt wagons would be a pointless waste that would put the defense in a very poor light when it comes to the use of public funds, which I believe the defense cannot afford in the current situation either. It was therefore a wise decision to stop the hijacking. Like the case rapporteur, I actually want to commend the Council of State for what happened when it happened – when it happened first. The Committee now assumes that the Ministry will continue its efforts to seek out institutions and organisations that both meet the requirements for the use of the belt wagons and want to put them into service. However, if this proves difficult, I think it is necessary, as this case has developed, that the Council of State consults in an appropriate form the Committee for the further management of the disposal of BV 202.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e447	Of many policy issues, the signatories have involved themselves in, among others. through Storting's Question Time, I believe that the scrapping of BV 202 is one of those that I have received the most positive feedback on. That is why I am now pleased with the presentation by the Council of State a little while ago today. But I am sorry for the misinformation I got about my question-time question, which I found very strange and therefore followed on. Speaking of the matter: the great attention it has received is based on the fact that people, either as individuals, traders or in some organisation, team or similar, do not understand why the defence destroys as great social values as these precisely need in their work. Neither do people understand why the defense spends money on scrapping BV 202 and thus burdening the defence budget when you could get income. People also do not understand the arguments for scrapping, such as. the environmental impact, when the Defence in its auctions sells e.g. GMC trucks of 1940-1945 models, which are also not directly environmentally friendly, and Volvojeeper, which were sold almost 2000 pieces last year, with nearly the same B-18 or B-20 engine as BV 202. The undersigned himself has privately purchased these two types of vehicles through military auction. Where's the logic? For the defence, BV 202 has been of good help in solving various tasks in the same way as many sports teams, fire services, auxiliary corps, Red Cross, veteran car clubs and some self-employed workers per year. the date of issue. But for these to buy a new wagon for an estimated 1 to 1.5 million. kr is out of date. Therefore, these should be offered takeovers for a reasonable amount of money from day one. Drought 2000 cars could have solved enormous tasks for them. Some of these more than 2,000 BV 202 vehicles have only gone a few miles, in one case only 3.6 km, and the plastic was sitting on the seat. It goes without saying that the value of use for just one example. The Red Cross is very big. Here, for example, Eidskog Red Cross. They have now got two BV 202 for their work at NOK 1000 per person. piece. These are now painted and marked with the symbols of the Red Cross, and are ready for action for the good of society. The wagons will be part of the total emergency services locally and may also be requested by Hedmark Red Cross and by Hedmark Police District. They say that according to their needs, there is no better alternative. As mentioned earlier, I have received many positive feedback, including from some local HV teams and HV officers/soldiers. They have no vehicles and could imagine someone. It would also be a strength for the total defence of Norway to be as self-held as possible in transport. So to the matter itself, the scrapping of the BV 202. It has been characterised in many ways, ranging from «defence force» to «defence force» and other terms. It's got to be. But we hope and believe that the defense has taken the signals they have received on this matter, and that they will take these with them when the defense is to dispose of other military equipment or property. When the defense asks for more money, they must also look at the income/savings they may have. If people are still to have confidence in the Defense, then such pleas as the BV 202 case must be the last. The progress party has received support in this matter in its proposals and should perhaps be satisfied. But we still choose to promote our two proposals, which read as follows: ‘1. The size requests the Government to stop the scrapping of BV 202 and parts of the same wagon.2. The Government is asking for the opening of BV 202 and parts of BV 202 to be sold to resellers to end-users who satisfy requirements for the use of the material, and for allowing organisations of social utility with proven needs to benefit from the wagons.’ We are doing this in a slightly modified form, as it has been shown in the past that the scrapping has continued despite the instructions of the Council of State to stop it, cf. The evening post of 22 March 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e471	Per Roar Bredvold has drawn up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e474	I would like to begin by saying that I fully agree with the general principles that both the Bredvold, the case rapporteur and the committee leader have stressed, namely that it is important for the credibility of the defence that when the defence is to dispose of material, it is to be done in an economically optimal way, and that it should be done in such a way that most people retain respect for the defence. It's important to think about it. This case has been unfortunate for the reputation of the defense, and I admit it would have been better managed by me too. At the same time, I will not hide that even in such a serious case as this, there have been situations that have developed both the humor and the smile, especially the day after the press release was sent out, when we stopped the hijacking and the Ministry of Defence's central desk was called down by people from all over the country who wanted to buy the belt wagons. However, I want to spend some time on the formal one. The FLO, the Defence Logistics Organisation, former Army Supply Command, has been delegated to dispose of any unnecessary defence equipment. It was through the letter of application of 22 December 2000 and was followed up by the letter of application of 22 June 2001. In this respect, the FLO has had its powers in order in what they have done and in the contracts that have been signed. I also think that we ought to draw attention to what Commissioner Nybakk had to say, namely that the FLO had launched investigations into both disposal methods and who could be stakeholders, including both NATO and PfP countries and various humanitarian organisations, such as aid corps, public agencies, etc. What I noticed in my reply on 9 January was that the contracts that had been concluded, so I did not have sufficient reason to touch. The reason I gave it the answer was that there were still 650 belt wagons for which there were no contracts for scrapping, and I thought that changing the framework conditions for the disposal of the 650 would be sufficient to meet the need. Of course, we still have to see if the 650 would be enough. That's basically not what we're discussing today. What we are discussing today is the public attention given to this matter, which was simply at the expense of the reputation of the defence, and which thus made it absolutely necessary, when I was made aware on 19 March of a separate termination clause in the contract, to terminate the contract immediately. It gives everyone who wants to get a BV 202 opportunity to do that. There has now been a wide range of information from the Defence Agency to draw all possible stakeholders' attention to the possibility that exists, and nothing will be better than if all of the 980 belt wagons we now have will actually find an owner who can benefit from the vehicle. For the future, I believe that both the Defence and political leadership in the Ministry of Defence have learned that it may be useful to have closer contact on a matter, especially when it receives significant public attention. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that disclosure of the wrong date should not, of course, happen. I have to take that responsibility inwards. At the same time, I want to add that the age of these belt wagons is from 23 to 35 years. There are no new motorised vehicles. The average lifetime of these carriages is 15 000 km, according to the defense's calculations, and the average of those for which contracts were concluded had gone 10,000 to 12 000 km, so that many of them began to approach what was assumed to be the service life of the wagons. Vehicles are also expensive to operate and are subject to authorisation to use. Of course, this information is given to all those who turn. The aim is to make the most of them and to ensure that the reputation of the defence for the future is the best way of managing its values in an optimal way. Otherwise, of course, I would like to meet the committee leader's request that if there are vehicles that are not sold and that there may be a need to cut up, we should of course have a dialogue with the committee, so that we do not enter into such contracts without an understanding of the large number.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e497	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e501	This is a case that has several different sides. Of course, it is not a matter as serious as the two previous cases, but there are certain principles. First of all, the case highlights certain constitutional issues, i.e. the relationship between magnification and government. Secondly, it highlights the relationship between the Department and the underlying offices, in this case the relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence. And that's one of the points I've been going to ask the Council of State questions about. For me, this clearly confirms that we need integrated defence management. This – let's say – the mess that has emerged tells me that here are some people in the department who don't know what the Defence Command is doing, and the Defence Command doesn't know what the FLO is doing. I'm not here to defend the Council of State, for it's probably the Council of State itself, but to me it's clear and clear that we had an integrated defence management, as the Workers' Party went into last year, we had released this. My simple question to the Minister of Defence is therefore: Does the Council agree with my considerations about this with integrated defence management, and can this be an example that can be used as an argument for us who are in favour of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e512	There are arguments both for and against an integrated defence management, but I can support the representative Halvorsen in that, in matters of this nature, it would probably be even easier to get all the information if you had had an integrated solution. The Stortinget now has the full opportunity to re-examine the issue of integrated solutions, if you wish, in the context of the implementation proposal. It was an important question for the Storting one year ago, but that is now the responsibility of the members of the Defence Committee. The issue of the belt wagons is that the Defence Logistics Organisation has a hugely wide area of responsibility. It shall ensure all initial investments and disposals for a sufficiently large organisation. That means we have to delegate significant powers to the FLO. It is right that the Defence Military Organisation should deal mainly with such questions itself. But when a case becomes a political matter, when a case is met with interest in Stortinget, it is important that the contact between the Ministry of Defence and the underlying agency, the Defence Military Organisation, is optimal. And then I think I can say in general that people who sit in the same house, who see each other in their eyes, often have better contact than when that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e521	The decision to repeal BV 202 was decided by the FLO/Land in December 2002. Now, when we see the scale of this case, on the basis of what has happened in retrospect with regard to the enormous demand for this type of wagon, does the Council of State think that this has been done well enough? And if not, what will the Council of State do to improve this for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e526	The case of the carriages illustrates that in the future the military organisation of the defence will need to place greater emphasis on the disposal job. In the past, there has been a great deal of focus on the acquisition of new equipment, on initial investment, but with the change in defence it becomes more important to deal with disposal and disposal of relatively large volumes. I have taken an initiative to get other routines between the Defence Military Organization and the Ministry of Defence to brief on disposal cases. The contracts entered into by the Defence Military Organisation at the FLO during the autumn of 2001 were of such a nature that, in retrospect, we see well that it would have been beneficial if the Ministry of Defence had been briefed, and on that basis the procedures will also be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e531	Of course, it is good that the procedures are changed in relation to when the Council of State and the Ministry of Defence are to be informed. But frankly, this case should never have been a matter for the Council of State, nor should it be a matter for the Stortinget. Nor should it be made a question of whether this could have been avoided if there had been an integration between the Ministry of Defence and the defence management. For any public authority to dispose of its equipment, regardless of whether it is the Defense or others, it should be a spinal cord reflex to consider whether it is any other person who could benefit from the equipment that cannot be used. Although the defense considers that this is equipment that is not valid or usable, it must not be forgotten that there are auxiliary corps that still use weasel from the days of war in rescue operations, which are in a much worse condition and are much less environmentally friendly than these belt wagons. Therefore, it would not actually be necessary to take such action as the Minister of Defence now suggests. I was not particularly reassured when I experienced in a radio debate with a representative from the Defence Department that it was black on direct questions that one would do the same again if one had to assess this matter again. This does not indicate that the defence has learned much of it, and therefore I recognise that it is necessary that, at least on the part of the Council of State, procedures be put in place that make this necessary. I very much appreciate the fact that the Council of State has done so, and I also assume later that the defence is handling it so that the Council of State does not have to spend time on details like this. Of course, it is also true, as the Council itself points out, that these wagons are not new, and that there are also some vehicles that have been driven to some extent quite a lot. But on the other hand, there are actually vehicles that are almost unused – they have been driven a few kilometers – where even the plastic was not taken from the seats, as was said by the representative Bredvold. So this actually indicates that there should have been another assessment from the very beginning, as the Council of State has also pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e540	I am pleased that the case rapporteur, Mr Enoxen, stresses that it will always be necessary to delegate to the Defence Military Organisation, and that a department cannot operate the detailed management of an underlying agency. I am also pleased with the mention from Enoxen that this is not about new belt wagons, but, as I mentioned in my post, most have an age of between 23 and 35 years, and most have driven between 10,000 and 12,000 km, while the lifetime is 15 000 km. It suggests that most of these vehicles are up to the end of their lifetime, and that the picture created in the media that one more or less destroys completely new vehicles applies to individual cases and not to the average. At the same time, I would like to stress that the defense actually tried to sell these belt wagons to organisations. The defence examined the possibility of selling to NATO and PfP countries, to relief organisations, to public agencies, etc. in autumn 2000 and spring 2001. These include, in particular, the Directorate of Civil Protection, the Police Directorate, the Norwegian Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid, the Church's Emergency Aid and the Refugee Council, and the FLO have also had contact with the local relief corps and local fire services on the sale of these carriages prior to the conclusion of the contract for scrapping. Therefore, I do not want to leave the impression that the FLO did not try to sell these to the organisations concerned before entering into the scrapping contracts, because that has actually been done, and that is also explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e547	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2256]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e560	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e567	During the debate, 19 proposals have been put forward. Sylvia Brustad – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e572	In the light of the debate and in order to prevent the rejection of the proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, I would suggest that the proposals should be put to the vote. 6 and 7 are converted into transmission proposals. I would also urge the Group of the Party of European Socialists to vote in favour of the proposals in which we are co-rapporteurs, to vote against all other proposals and otherwise in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e579	I would like to ask for the proposal No. 16 and 18, from the Socialist Left Party, is being converted into a transmission proposal. Otherwise, I would advise the Socialist Left – and everyone else, of course – to vote in favour of the Socialist Left Party's proposals and the Elsewhere vote in line with what Sylvia Brustad said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e586	The 19 proposals are: the proposals No 1-4, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 5, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposals No. 6-8, by Sylvia Brustad, on behalf of the Labour Party and Socialist Left Party proposals No. 9 and 10, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 11-14, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 15-19, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 9 and 10, from the Right and Christian People's Party, converted into a transmission proposal, and the introduction is replaced by ‘Recommendation’, etc. Proposal No. 9 then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that the derogation practices of the municipalities in relation to the provisions of the Planning and Building Act on construction bans in the 100 metre belt of the coastal zone are exercised in accordance with the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. current guidelines, taking into account local circumstances, and returning to the Storting with a situation briefing.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government monitor the development of public access to the beach zone while respecting the rights of landowners and return to the Stortinget with an assessment of various proposals that can ensure this, including a possible proposal for a new 25-metre rule in the Outdoors Act.’ In addition, proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have also been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government review the Åkerøyaskaken once all the consequences of the removal of the dwelling have been clarified.’ The same applies to proposal No. 5, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party, proposals No. 6, 7 and 8, by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and the proposals No. 16 and 18, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government encourage all major municipalities with the ‘marking boundary’ to draw up a separate plan for the management of their ‘marking areas’ with a view to ensuring these areas against interference and for an active open-air life.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government notify the Stortinget of the experience with the applicable guidelines for exemption practices in the 100 metres zone and propose the necessary changes to the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government propose amendments to the Outdoor Law relating to the 25-metre zone so that all can move freely in the coastal zone where there is more than 25 metres between the medium-high water level and the cabin or the house.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government: 1. return to Stortinget with a separate law on sustainable use and protection of urban land.2. The Marka in Oslo and surrounding municipalities are responsible for such protection. In the case of other urban parcels concerned, the Stortinget is asked to make a more detailed assessment.’ Proposal No. 16, from the Socialist Left Party, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government strengthen the Planning and Building Act through the development of new land use categories, including cabin construction, in order to ensure greater open-air planning.’ Proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party, says in amended form: ‘The Government is advised to make the necessary changes to the Planning and Building Act which allow municipalities to limit energy and land consumption to recreational properties.’ The President proposed that the proposals should be dealt with as follows: 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 16 and 18 are sent to the Government without a trial — and they consider it to be adopted. Proposals Nos. 15, 17 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party, are addressed to voting. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make appropriate submissions on the maximum prices for renting for hunting and fishing.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case that the primary school should offer a week’s free camp school at least 4 times.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate models that may result in greater differentiation between recreational dwellings and all-year residences on the charges on electric current.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e693	Proposals Nos. 11–14, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision does not require the Government to promote a restriction of the Open Air Act relating to the 25-metre rule.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose the repeal of Section 17-2 of the Law on Planning and Building – on the Prohibition of Building and Disposal in the 100-metre field along the sea.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Law on Motor Traffic in Lands and Waterways, in line with the proposals put forward in Document No. 8:29 [[1998 - 1999]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that regulations prohibiting the use of bicycles on public roads are not implemented.’ [[Snowmobiles]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e725	Proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, are then taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size of the budget calls on the Government to increase the appropriations for the purchase of free space by the State in the 2003 draft budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the provision of natural gardens and schools through economic instruments and asks the Government to come back with proposals to this effect.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with a case for strengthening the economy of the organisations operating in the open air and other outdoor activities, inter alia. by allocating funds to a greater extent than at present. The allocation of funds must be additional and not substitute for, inter alia: funds allocated over the budget of the Ministry of the Environment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e758	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e786	During the debate, Mr Vaksdal has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise the rules for the calculation of water and sewerage charges in its municipalities. The audit must clarify issues relating to the sources of funding, the lifetime of installations, as well as interest rates, so that a person receives a proper levy and a charge that treats taxpayers in a similar way over time.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to step in with its county officials, as the supervisory body of its municipalities, to increase the scope and detail of the control of the annual tax accounts. It is also necessary to consider the use of external auditors in a more detailed and reinforced audit.» There will be no alternative between these proposals and the Committee's setting. The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:17 [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e817	During the debate, Mr Lund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an action plan to stimulate the addition of older workers, including the reduction or removal of employers’ fees for all over 55 years of age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e844	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Peter Gitmark on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for changes to the protection of workers and the working environment, etc., in order to make the provisions of the Act on night work more flexible by permitting increased access to night work in several types of establishments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e868	Proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, says: ‘Document No. 8:33 [[2001-2002]] Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e893	During the debate Per Roar Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Military Medical Education and Competence Centres shall be located at the Terningmoen by 31 December 2004. [[MUKS]] Lahaugmoen clay shall be deposited by the same date.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e917	The vote I will be voted on first, then alternately between the proposal from the Party of Advances and the Party of Centers and the vote II, and finally over the vote III.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e935	During the debate, Mr Bjørklund put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner1792Norwegian strengths abroad1Operating expenditure, increased by 204 096 000from NOK 1 242 385 000 to NOK 1 446 481 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e1150	Here, the Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-11-2.ana.ud1760e1165	During the debate, Mr Bredvold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The size request the Government to stop the scrapping of BV 202 and parts of the same vehicle. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Government is asking for the opening of BV 202 and parts of BV 202 to be sold to resellers to end-users who satisfy requirements for the use of the material, and for allowing organisations of social utility with proven needs to benefit from the wagons.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
