ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e45	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the county of Hedmark: Bernt Egil Torp For the province of Hordaland: Mali Grete N. Aksnes For Oslo: Aud Kvalbein For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad and Silver Sivertsen For the South-Trundellag County: Hanne Dyveke Sweet Hagen From the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, there is an application for a permit signed by the Head of Delegation, Mr Morten Höglund. The application concerns leave on days 18 and 19 March to attend the meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels of the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen and Morten Højlund. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates of Akershu County are invited to meet during the leave period: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund.3. Mette Korsrud is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Julie Christiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e113	Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e118	The President proposes that a president be elected for the Storting meeting today – and considers it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e123	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e128	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e145	School and education are the most important things we can bet on. That's the knowledge we're going to live on in future Norway. The aim of SV is to make Norway the leading knowledge nation in the world. Then we have to invest a lot of money in education, in order to enhance the quality of both school buildings and education. Pupils must be given the opportunity to choose the education they wish, while at the same time leaving school or having to be accommodated as little as possible when they begin high school. An offensive school costs money, and it costs money to bet on education. The task of secondary school is to equip the students to meet the labour market and the requirements set there. This means that students need to be able to cooperate closely with businesses and businesses in the local environment. We need flexible training that meets the challenges of the future. Think of high school having to cut by $2 billion in the next few years! How many students had to move on to school to get places, and how many had to take school places on a line they don't want? What, then, are the signals sent to high school and to youth? What is the quality of the state? And what does higher education mean for Norway? This isn't a joke, but unfortunately, it's pure and clear facts. There's a time bomb under high school. According to NIBR, after the state acquisition of the hospitals, the county has an accumulated deficit of approximately NOK 1 8 billion. The government has run from its responsibility and leaves the students in high school with the bill. This is a government that in the election campaign made promises to bet on school, education and business. The economic situation of the county is politically determined. No matter what the Government thinks about the county municipality, it is the youth who is now suffering from this. And it is not secondary school that is responsible for the deficits in the county municipalities. This shouldn't be a political matter at all. For the Right, who sits with the ministerial post of school, and who was a party that went to the elections to bet on school and business, it should be a matter of course to ensure the quality of high school. This deficit in the county has ring-fenced effects for young people, adult education and business. In order to maintain the service at the current level, it is necessary to increase the free resources of county councils by NOK 2 billion. This is serious. After the state took over the hospitals, there is still a large debt in the county municipalities, for which hospitals have the largest share of the blame. To use a familiar term, I might call this "harry". If you buy a business, you take the deficit with you. This is a well-known phenomenon from Business Norway. The state is responsible for the deficit. And the right to secondary education for adults and young people, is it forgotten? In many counties, one must cut down on operations and cut down on all initial investments. And this happens even if high school is not responsible for the deficit. What you've done is you flip the deficit over to the schools, and the state just disappeared. The new county must start with a solid deficit. SV, a serious school party, believes that the bill has to be paid by the state. It's not youth that's going to sit and take the cuts. It's the cost-intensive subjects that go first, then it's the schools in the districts. Districts need predictability and a local school. It's where large parts of the business are located in our long-range country. In order to work closely with business, schools need to facilitate this. I believe that the right to have a school in the community is important and has been an important political principle in the years that have passed. A school in the community means that many more people will choose to take an education, many more will be educated. There is also a bias in who is taking education, depending on where they live. A reduction in the number of district schools will make a major difference in the level of education around the country. The closure of schools or district lines will lead to fewer choice of education. For several years, the schools have suffered from a shortage of hospitals. There have been longer and longer travel distances in recent years, and the deficit of about NOK 2 billion, if the county councils have to take it, will mean even longer travel distances. Many people will have to live at boarding school or in dorms, as well as having to choose courses of study you may not initially want, and you may have to choose a general course of study. The cuts in secondary school are now coming when industry needs labour and lacks skilled labour. The result might be that you get together in a few big schools. You get longer travel distances, and the equivalent education offer in the country that you've been looking for for for a long time will be a fairy tale. In recent years, the reduction in provision in secondary schools has also been greater than the reduction in the number of students in secondary schools. Secondary schools have suffered from a deficit in hospitals for many years. This is also reflected in the quality of many secondary schools around the country. I'm not going to make this happen. In Finland, for example: a general plan for secondary education was launched in the county, but it has been suspended. This says something about the dramatic consequences this will have if the government doesn't want to spend more money on the county council and deploy resources in high school. In Finnmark, there is also a proposal to lay down two out of nine secondary schools in the county. The result of this is that the students become residents and that there will be great inequalities for students in Finnmark counties compared to students around the country. And only a few will get the offer they want. Finally, it's business that loses the most. What signals does the Minister want to give to Finnmark today? It's a little impressive strategy the government has chosen, it's a little school-friendly and a little business-friendly. In the spring, the battle of high school stands. Many county councils are just waiting for the revised national budget to see if the government wants to spend more money on high school. The number of students will increase quite sharply in the coming years, while the counties will have to reduce the supply. From 1999 onwards, the number of students increased by more than 11 000, and until 2010 the number of students will increase by more than 37 000. In adult education, it has been estimated that the number of students will increase by 5,000, while perhaps experiencing massive school drop-outs. In South-Trundellag e.g. are 15 school grades proposed. The examination fee for private individuals has been proposed to be increased. Privatists are not allowed to take a private examination because of poor finances. In Eastfold, 12 classes are proposed for removal. Will the Minister ensure a school in the districts and ensure a policy that leads to equivalent education and ensure the right to higher education for both adults and young people? The responsibility for the school lies with the Minister of Education. There is already a shortage of equipment, poor school buildings, and there is a great need for teacher refresher training. What kind of secondary school is the Minister's intention to offer young people and businesses in Norway in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e192	In the interpellation, some claims are made that higher education is characterised by poor buildings, the need for teacher training, that many municipalities have drastically cut in number of classes, and that there is a cost-intensive professional subject. Now, however, the statistics show per person. On 1 October 2001 from the Central Statistical Office, more than half of the students attend basic vocational courses. The share of pupils in basic vocational training has actually increased. In 1999 and 2000, around 51 pst went. by students on basic vocational training courses. For the current school year, the proportion of pupils in basic vocational education has risen to around 54 pst. So the tendency is a higher proportion of students in vocational education. From 1999 to 2000, the number of classes has fallen slightly, but this needs to be seen in the context of a drop in the number of students. Number of students per year class has remained stable in recent years. I agree that there is a need to invest in school buildings and continuing education, and it is in these areas that it is invested by the state. The State budget for 2002 has adopted a State funding mechanism to compensate municipalities and county councils for interest expenditure on new buildings and the improvement of school facilities. The financial instrument allows the local government sector to raise interest-free loans of a total of DKK 15 billion with a five-year leave and a total maturity of each 20-year loan. Aid commitments will be allocated over an eight-year period upon application. The development of teachers' skills is also an important field of action. More than ever, the school needs motivated teachers with professional and educational qualities. Continuing education is primarily the responsibility of the school owner, but in order to achieve important educational policy objectives, the country has allocated approximately 50 %. 260 million. for various skills measures aimed at teachers and school leaders in 2002. It is too early to say anything about the next school year, but a preliminary assessment of county government budgets for 2002 shows that many county municipalities do not report significant changes in service provision. In the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 5 for 2001-2002 by the Municipal Committee on the State Budget 2002 Stortinget took the following two decisions: 1st@item: inlistbox ‘The Government is asking the Government to return to the Revised National Budget for 2002 with a proposal for a fair final settlement for the counties.’2 ‘The Government of the Revised National Budget 2002 is asked to make a proposal for a fair settlement to counties with future documented loss of income. Special attention is required on the situation in Eastfold and North Trøndelag. The scheme must take account of the fact that Stortinget increased the discretionary framework of the county municipalities by 200 million. 2002 kroner in relation to the proposal in the municipal bill.» Therefore, the revised national budget for 2002 will make an overall assessment of the economic settlement resulting from the state acquisition of the specialist health service. In this context, there will also be a review of debt settlements related to developments in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e214	I thank you for your answer. But I did not get an answer to any of my questions. Governments gave no indication of the type of quality you want in high school, what kind of device you want to bet on in the districts and – according to the line that has been before – in a district school. Nor did the Council of State signal the importance of high school for her. The Council of State did not refer to the figures provided by NIBR, that the free resources of counties had to be increased by nearly DKK 2 billion in order to maintain the service at the same level as today – the same level, not an increase in the level. I'm worried about high school. This spring, as I said, there's a time bomb in high school. What kind of signals is the Council of State wanting to send when it comes to what kind of secondary school counties are going to run?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e221	I believe I answered the questions asked in the interview. There, the representative Lena Jensen has raised his concerns about equipment and bad buildings, which I answered, and I referred to the loan scheme that has been introduced, but the results of which are not yet fully seen, because it is so new. But of course, we need to evaluate it more closely when we see the interest in it and its use. In addition, the representative in the interview raised the question of the training of teachers, which I also believe is very important. In addition to what is going to be done by school owners, who have the primary responsibility here, I believe that the state must be more than ever committed to putting an additional pressure on the continuing training of teachers, which I believe is very important. Then she took up the concern for the profession, and I can share it with her in myself, but there I believe I had numbers to show that might give a slightly different picture than what she herself gave in her post. Then she addresses issues related to the local economy and the county economy, which are of course very important, but there we are in the situation that the government follows up – I kept saying – in a very ordinary way, as the Storting has also asked, and comes back to this in the context of the revised national budget. I am sure that the representative Jensen understands that I cannot go into this further now until the revised national budget has been presented. But the government comes back to that situation. Of course, my interest in and commitment to higher education is very great. We have a sample working on increasing the quality of the entire initial training. In addition, I am very concerned that we are able to get to a correct – if I can use such an expression – distribution by general and professional subjects. I know that SV has recently made proposals here in Stortinget to strengthen the professions, which we will come back to and discuss. I myself am very concerned about also raising the status of the profession and making it more interesting for students to go that way. One way to do this is also to make it more interesting to continue going to school after high school without necessarily going out to a long academic education within traditional universities and colleges. Therefore, I have notified that the government will also come back with a case concerning the law on vocational training after two years of education at the top of vocational secondary education. So I'm very committed to this. I am also very committed to the content, which we will come back to when the Quality Committee comes up with its position, where some important issues are the situation of other foreign languages, the situation of mathematics and real science, and the relationship between professional and general science and making the profession more attractive. But just when it comes to the economy of the county councils, I have to ask for respect for the fact that it is a theme that we have to come back to in connection with the revised national budget, which the Biggest agrees with. It's not very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e236	The interpellant assumes the unsolved economic relationship between the country and the county authorities after the country's acquisition of the hospitals, where there is an accumulated deficit related to the hospital operation from previous years. Concerns are expressed that final settlements to the disadvantage of county councils will result in a loss of provision and tasks related to secondary education, or, more directly, that the right of young people to good secondary education will be damaged. It's a concern I share. In this context, I refer you to a proposal from, among other things, The working party which is being treated in Stortinget, where this ratio has been taken up. Perhaps this question should have been addressed to another expert council, but I assume that the Clemet Council is committed to ensuring the best possible financial basis for the performance of the major tasks related to secondary education. I hope, at least, that the right attitude towards the county councils will not lead to the loss of young people in secondary education. In my opinion, the county councils have solved and solved the tasks of higher education in a good way. However, there are clearly major challenges in the development of supply in the future, both in terms of capacity and in terms of equipment and content. One example is the situation of Akershu County. The population has a particularly strong population growth in the 16-19 age group in the period up to 2010. Here, there are plans to meet a need that will mean 4,600 student places, naturally enough with major implications for both investment and operational resources. Nor should we forget the organisation of adult education rights. The remaining tasks of the county councils, where secondary education is the largest area, must not be affected by a deficit related to the previous operation of the hospitals when they are now taken over by the State. I assume that a government council responsible for education will have this starting point when the government makes its decision. We are all served by an advanced training offer that meets capacity needs and quality of content for the benefit of society and the individual student's ability to achieve its objectives. And finally, as a little bit of a point: we now see Right and Government's eagerness in the matter of private schooling. There I can say very clearly that the Workers' Party will oppose all attempts to erode or weaken public responsibility for facilitating and operating the advanced training offer. It is essential to ensure the principle of equal rights to education in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e251	With so much misery description of the county municipality and its ability to run secondary schools as the interpellant served in its main post, it is gratifying to note that also senior SVs have been occupied by the county council's further fate and possible closure. In the interpellation, there will be, for example: referenced to the lack of equipment, poor buildings and the need for further training of teachers. This is not something that occurs overnight, as the state assumes responsibility for the hospitals. It's something that's happened over many years. Traveling a school building will at least take a 3- to 5-year period if planning is taken into account until the project is completed. It must then be that SV also has a great responsibility for the poor follow-up of the county councils in this area, where SV has been and has managed to the extent that they have so far had influence in the county municipalities. I also think it is a significant down-priority of local democracy and self-governing in the county community to claim that it is primarily the district schools and the professional studies that are affected. When we have a decentralised school system and a decentralised school system, it is precisely because we need to take account of local needs, whether in terms of the needs of the labour market or in order to strengthen education in specific areas. When the interpellant is also in Finnmark, I just want to mention that there are exciting and interesting attempts, among other things. in Finnmark, Nordland and Sogn and Fjordane with online education, which gives us a completely different opportunity and way of spreading even higher education to areas that have not previously had secondary schools, and which allow us to reach far more, including the adult population, who have not yet had this education offer. Otherwise, like the representative Bekkelem Orheim, I am also a little surprised that it is the Minister of Education and Research who gets this interpellation, cf. the reference made in the Council of State’s response to the fact that this issue, mainly related to the economy, has already been adopted by the Stortinge that this issue is to be assessed in the revised national budget. And it's even more surprising, when you know that SV was involved in reducing the appropriations to, among other things. secondary schools by cutting 30 million. kr to the landlines when we dealt with the state budget last autumn, that they are now coming and regret that there is too little economy at their disposal. Finally, I just want to stress what the Council of State was about, that in terms of who will be responsible for the hospitals and the hospital deficits, at least it is not a responsibility in high school. The responsibility of secondary schools is to provide the best education the school can provide, with good quality and creativity to meet the needs of both pupils, business and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e264	First of all, when I hear the Workers' Party's concern about the public school – the monopolistic school – which presents such a widespread decline as it is now doing, this representative finds reason to stress that it is with enthusiasm that we record the zealous activity of the Education Councils to open up to other forms of operation and open up to competition. It is an activity that we applaud and welcome. Three points in the debate: one is building. That page was illuminated in the Question Time on Wednesday – and the answer shows that it is late. The scheme of loans is particularly worrying with regard to the county, which has a miserable economy. It may be particularly visible there, when you even have an unexplained situation about the county council's future, if you would at all invite this loan scheme to be carried out within the loan framework of NOK 15 billion. Then to the economy and the quality. It's a fact that I don't think anyone can run from, that the county economy has been pretty bad in the last few years. Often, educational resources have been aged, particularly in the 2002 budgets, and it is obvious that this goes beyond quality. When the Council of State promises help through the revision, we hope that it reflects what has been measured by the lack of resources. It remains to be seen. There's no economy in the answer. Help is requested, but it is important that help is proportionate to what is actually needed. Then I come to my third point: the best solution is perhaps to release as far as possible the secondary schools from the county's clumsy economic grip. Therefore, I would like to ask specifically whether it is possible to open up experimental activities, so that the municipalities that want to do so can be allowed to operate secondary schools within their own municipal borders, and whether one can imagine some form of exemption from secondary schools in the form of foundations, so that these schools can be obtained from the economy of the county council, regardless of the process of clarifying the situation. You have to focus on what matters: having a good offer for students, and that offer should be good, regardless of who has the role of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e277	The representative Voie swung to the high altitudes and baffled clearly and clearly that the deficit in the health sector should not, in any case, affect the education sector. But that's what's about to happen now! The large deficit generated about DKr 1.8 billion, which is documented in a NIBR study, will affect high school. It's going to have to hit high school if we don't do anything about it, precisely because the education sector is the largest sector the county is left with. It is also the most economically demanding sector. And if you're going to allocate this generated deficit of DKK 1.8 billion to the different sectors that are left, it's obvious to everyone that this will hit high school -- if we don't do anything about it. So the fundamental and fundamental question is, are we willing to clean up and take responsibility for this generated deficit? And just a little bit of a point: once the state has taken over the hospitals, it's pretty quick to get clear signs that there's a need for supplementary funding here. And here the state is obviously willing to add extra money. This was not the case at the time when the county council was responsible for the health sector. Are we then willing to lift this generated deficit and say that the county councils should start at scratch in relation to the remaining sectors for which they are responsible? That is the basic – and the principle – question that Søren Voie overlooked and swung well over. Then to the Council of State. I understand that the Council of State will not say what is going to be revised. But I had so far expected the Council of State to problematize this relationship that has been addressed in the interpellation: Will this be the framework of high school, and what consequences can it have for high school if the county councils come into an economic situation where they are unable to maintain the offer, will not be able to maintain a decentralised education offer, maintain school classes, etc.? And if they're forced to cut because we're not willing to transfer or clean up debts, we know that it's the most expensive offers that are initially cut. We know that. It's natural. That's the way it has to be. And the most expensive offers are the professional offers. So I'm waiting excitedly for the revision and for what the government wants to put in there. My strong call is that money must be deposited here. If we do not do so, this will clearly be the case in the years to come — at least in 2003 — in the context of higher education, the provision of education and the scope of the various offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e290	All speakers have stressed that the economy of the county is important for the provision of secondary education. We all agree on that. Clearly, this reform that we have been through raises some challenges in relation to the county economy. I am pleased that the Government is willing to review the situation now in spring in the context of the revised national budget in order to identify what is the actual situation, and what is to be the state's contribution. Because in terms of the costs associated with the health reform – and I agree with the representative of Voie – it is natural for the Stortinget to go in and take responsibility for it. What worries me is that we have a number of offers that may be at immediate risk. This applies to the adult training offer. We know that the urge for economy in the county councils means that one does not get to the amount of adult education that is wanted. One is very much based on online offers. It is well and good, but there is also a need for offers where you have class membership and participation. The same applies to the offer of technical vocational schools, where one also tries to find economic savings. This is an offer that has gone a little idle pending a clarification as to who should be responsible. But the offer is needed, and that is still the responsibility of the county council, so you have to make sure that the offer is not dropped. The budget decisions of the majority of the population last year have led to the unsolved funding of some of the skigymnas. These are the immediate consequences that we need to address and find a solution. I think we're getting a clarification of the economic situation in ours, and then we'll also be able to see which of these school services can be maintained and maintained. But the county council's responsibility lies there like a bearer's beam.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e304	The introduction to the interpellation was based on the accumulated deficit with which the county councils are now involved. It has our two fields that have had a strongly rising curve in the county economy, and it is hospitals and child protection. Now it's said that we have to spend 15 years paying off debts that have come first because of hospitals. I have understood that health companies will now have to increase the rights to continue the efforts made by the county council last year, while the county council that did that job will not have to cover the same costs. I see here that there's some kind of recognition that it's been underfunded, and then it's about doing a thing to fix it again now in the revised. A lot of what the county council has spent on has been initiated by Stortinget with demands for spice layers to get things done. It applies to both investment and operations. And in that period, the schools have had to wait. Reform 94, of course, brought with it major needs for reconstruction and additions to the new plans — theory space, groups of osbs. IT investment is also a clear requirement in the law on continuing education to be used as a educational tool in all disciplines, plus that it should be an independent subject. Then there is a great need to replace obsolete hardware, and training of teachers is essential. But I want to spend my last minute on what might be the most important thing. After reform 94, all young people have the right to remain in the secondary school. We see an explosion in child protection measures, which also leads to the same large increase in special education. It becomes very important that we now manage to create alternative measures for elephants who are not able to find their way into ordinary education – schemes with great flexibility, not using square schemes. These are young people with little or no care at home – it may be about drugs, crime or mental problems – and the school is for many the only fixed point. Thus, continuing schooling can have a significant preventive effect on youth problems. Every year we manage to keep these young people within the system, a lot is won. Without a final decision giving the county room for action for this student group – it is small, but has great ringing effects – the school and society will lose both economically and humanely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e313	There's been an interesting debate, there's been a very important debate, and there's been a lot of interesting ideas. There is a strong need to strengthen high school in the years to come. It will be, as I said in my introduction, a strong increase in students, both ordinary students and students who want to take adult education. I want to challenge the minister from her district perspective. Does she see the need for secondary schools in the districts and their maintenance, even though it would be more expensive to have schools in the districts? It is good that the Minister has promised assistance to the secondary schools in a way that has been revised. It is important to take seriously the situation around the county municipalities and they warned the cuts that come in very many county municipalities. Some states have been hit extra hard. You have to keep your eyes open for what can happen if you don't put money into the revised. It is politically determined how much money the county municipality should have. The free income of the county municipality is politically determined. And now in the new county municipality, the most important area of responsibility is secondary schools, public transport and culture. If the county council gets NOK 2 billion less in income, it says itself -- it's very logical -- that what's most expensive, what's the biggest cost, namely high school, will be hit very hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e322	Just a few comments, among others. to some questions: I am of course very pleased with the interpellant's commitment to high school, although I think there have been well used strong words here among themselves about the situation there. I also understand that there is respect for the fact that we have to come back to the county's economy in the revised national budget. But let me repeat what I said in my speech, that a preliminary assessment of the 2002 budgets does not indicate major changes in service provision, and it is also true from statistics that the so-called expensive offers – that is, particularly professional, the proportion of students in the profession – are actually increasing. So a few comments on a couple of other questions: The representative Sortevik said something that is not wrong, but that I would like to clarify, and that concerns this loan scheme for construction, where he said it goes late. I agree with him that it has been a little late to develop guidelines and procedures, but let me make it clear that this does not mean that the date of implementation has changed. It stands firm, and it may be important to be told for the sake of the minutes, in the interests of the municipalities and county councils that might want to make use of the system. The date is 1 January 2002. Then the representative of Sortevik also asked a question about any experimental activities, concerning the question of whether municipalities should be able to take over the responsibility for high school. Let me say, at the moment of speaking, I'm familiar with a hypothetical problem. There are no applications. Of course, if such applications come, they must be dealt with, and then as Minister of Education, I will use the educational profession and education policy. We are, of course, concerned — and this is true of all those who have taken part in this debate — with what is good for education and for high school. This must be the perspective of the evaluation of any such applications. So the interpellant asked about my district perspective. Of course, I believe that the right to secondary education should be the same across the country, but I may also be able to send a challenge back to SV regarding free choice, which is introduced in some states, but not everywhere – far from anywhere. A freer or freer choice of school is also a factor that reduces the risk of students having to go in the direction they do not want. And then finally, it was said from the interpellant here that it is ‘politically determined’ how much money the states have, etc. Yes, to a large extent, much of what we do is politically definite. But we must not be so fixed that it is the Minister of Education or this House who decides all too well for the states that we have, so to speak, abolished local democracy. Local democracy works. You also have a great responsibility in counties and municipalities for primary and secondary education, and it is not decided from this room to point out neither what the income looks like nor how to spend the money. It can be made more or less effective. So the responsibility for a good school is actually shared in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e335	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e353	The school bat's going in waves. Today, there is – and rightly so – a high focus in relation to the school’s task of knowledge dissemination. Several studies show that children in Norwegian school score on average in important schools and skills. This is a big challenge. But now the debate needs a complementary perspective. The school is not only a knowledge institution, it must also instruct the children to ‘gang man’. Education, training and education are the main means of building the emerging generation. The teaching responsibilities of the school mean that individual pupils' personal and social development and formation are centered on acquiring knowledge, norms and values within a community of social responsibility and humanity. Personal and social development and formation can only take place in the face of social, spiritual and cultural values, preferably as these values become concrete in the life of people who are close to the child. Family and school are such important value-distributing institutions. In its final report, the Value Commission points out that ‘the importance of the school as a meeting place for ethical awareness and dissemination can hardly be overestimated’. In our time we find a clear need to focus on the school's role in value and education. We often see human utility as well documented, for example. through work efforts, contributions to added value in the economic sense as well as contributions to medical research. But man has a self-value in himself — an absolute human dignity. Thus, the focus must also be on human integrity and development, but also its responsibilities for the community. The recognition of human dignity means that the task of value and education is the most important part of the school's task. But if we are to succeed in this work, the children need knowledge of life and society. The learning process must be based on an integrated learning vision that integrates education, knowledge and mastering. The need for value and education is also evident in the school's work on giving content to the concept of quality of life. Then the focus is on the intangible values -- the experience, the mastering, the knowing. Another area that also shows the need is to shape their own identity. Our global age and multicultural society are exploding new spaces for identity building, and even prejudices we don't suppose we had are being revealed. Shabana Rehman has discussed the multicultural debate in Dagbavalet on 2 March this year and compared it with little Bambi on the ice – Bambi, newborn, clumsy, insecure and brave where it runs out on the ice, falls and rises, falls and rises. Rehman uses this as an image of the chaos of identity, the paradise of confusion. But, she continues: ‘The time of the new creations is in front of you... and in this wonderful soup you will decide who you are and how you... now will play a whole new role.’ In this society, the school should be involved in raising children. This past week we've got a new focus on bullying in school. We know that bullying and violence create anxiety and can ruin good growth and a good learning environment in school. The work against bullying is very much about conveying respect and having clear limits on acceptable behaviour that are respected by everyone in the school community. But now more students complain that teachers are also bullying. It tells me that we need to focus more on professional ethics and how the teachers communicate. Work on bullying is an important part of the value and education work at school. School is an important social institution. The school’s mandate is derived from the fact that all children are entitled to training and it is the responsibility of their parents to provide such training. The school shall help the parents. Thus, cooperation with home school becomes a very important task. It is important that parents and schools mutually support each other in education and training. Dialogue on the content of the mission must be central. The dialogue must be about demarcation and clarity, but also show due respect for inequalities. The aim of the dialogue is to create a safe breeding environment for the child and to provide family and community membership so that they can shape their own identity and be able to meet the challenges of life. In the interaction of home school, the influence must go both ways. Parents must participate in and shape school training, while at the same time being able to help parents to understand their responsibilities and to help them in the role of the employer. The teachers may be the most important single factor for a good school. They have a lot of expectations, and maybe too many problems. Nevertheless, the teachers should be good instructors who can teach the young differences in right and wrong. The Value Commission is clear that the teachers are a model, whether they like it or not. The final report states: ‘People want teachers who are engaged and who care about them. Therefore, teachers must dare to stand out clearly, vividly and consciously in relation to the knowledge, skills and values to be disseminated.» In addition, the Value Commission underlines the role of the Vice-Chancellor as educational leader and supervisor, and the principal's responsibility for developing a good school culture. If teachers succeed in their task, teacher training must focus on ethics, culture and values. The practice of many teachers meets in school everyday life, including: its background in the absence of a focus on students' social and cultural background and home-school cooperation. In this context, the Christian People's Party believes that all teachers must have insight into the values and cultures that characterize the school community and the everyday lives of the students. Here we have clear expectations for the big message of teacher training that the Council of State has announced. Participation of students in learning activities is very important for a good learning outcomes. By being active and taking responsibility for their own learning, students are also trained for problem solving and cooperation. This is the practice of respecting employees and the ability to resolve and prevent conflicts. Students must be actively involved in the school community. Student democracy provides an introduction to democratic work that is very useful later in life. It is also very positive that students in Norwegian school score high in studies on international solidarity. This part of the school's value and education work cannot be valued high enough. If the school is to succeed in its task of dissemination and education, a local commitment and a local dialogue is needed. It's in the individual school it's decided. All participants in the school community – teachers, students, parents and other partners in the community – must participate in the dialogue. This work must be organised, and each school must define its strategy. There is a lot of positive work going on, and there are a lot of resource people and organisations that can be involved in cooperation. The work of complying with these values takes place in education, in the school yard and in the school leisure system. I have with amazement recorded the reactions to the Government's support for the value project of the Christian Educational Association. The values of this project are the same as those on which the school is based. We should welcome such initiatives, whether they come from the research community, the organisation MOT, Lions or others. The debate is good, but let me also remind you that in 1999 the Commission’s school initiative was met with criticism in ‘School focus’, among others. by the Vice-Chairman of the Teachers' Union. There's something ritual and predictable about the reactions. But we need feedback and evaluation of the value of the school, both to raise awareness of the work, and to ensure the quality of it. I have noticed with interest that the Nyborg Committee, which evaluated the growing-up environment of children and the commercialisation of society, in a public investigation, is organising an organized value debate in the school where everyone is involved in the school environment. They referred to Denmark and their plans, but this had to be done in the case of Norwegian social conditions. In this context, the sample considered that the issues of commercialisation and purchasing pressure should come in. The Christian People's Party agrees with the sample that there is a need to set material values against non-material values that are important for children and adults at all times. The Christian People's Party will focus on quality in school. Then it's important to remember that grades alone don't tell about quality in school. A school can have many students with good grades and yet have a lot of bullying. The school therefore needs to have value and education as a separate indicator of quality at school. This is why we need a school-based assessment that also clarifies and emphasises the dimensions of the value of schoolwork. Our neighbouring countries Denmark and Sweden have started different projects with organized value dialogue at each school. There is a major international debate on the value and education of the school. But it is important that the value dialogue is not an attempt to impose a value view on anyone. Rather, it is encouraging independent thinking, and it is the students and teachers who are to express the discussion. Nevertheless, everyone shall be safe in the place of the school as an institution, as defined in purpose and syllabus. A number of developments in our society call for renewed commitment and concrete initiatives focusing on the value and education dimension of the meeting between children, youth and adults. The Sem declaration signals the strengthening of value sharing and awareness in schools. How does the Council of State want to follow up on each school in order to raise awareness of values and attitudes in the everyday life of the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e393	Our society is based on some fundamental common values such as equality and equality, freedom of mind, tolerance and respect for one another across differences, ecological understanding and international co-responsibility. Values are given new forms of expression in line with changes in society. The rapid changes make it particularly important to have a continuous searchlight for value dissemination. I would like to stress that homes have the most important task as a broker. The school should primarily be an important helper in the home's education of the children. A prerequisite for the school's work on values is therefore good home-school cooperation. Because students spend a significant part of their childhood in school, the school is a central place for both value-sharing and, not least, a place where values can be translated into reality. Working with values is and must be an important part of the school's overall activity. The values on which the school is based are enshrined in the school's purpose paragraph of the Training Act and in the general part of the primary and secondary curriculum. The values shall permeate all subjects and activities of the school. Human rights are part of the school's value base. Students should, through knowledge of human rights, develop an commitment to other human rights. The majority of the subjects also have explicit topics on different value issues. In primary school, the CRL subject has given particular emphasis to values such as freedom of mind, tolerance and respect for one another. Based on Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 32 for 2000-2001 Evaluation of the subject of Christianism with religious and life views, discussed on 31 May 2001, the Department draws up a new curriculum for the CRL in order to strengthen the role of the subject in providing students with a common knowledge, culture and value base. Should the values imparted by the training become reality in the school, the educational environment needs to facilitate it. As part of ensuring a safe and good learning environment, I would like to propose provisions to ensure the working environment of students, both physically and psychosocially. Through special initiatives, the Ministry will ensure that schools maintain a high profile in the practical work on values. This work must be comprehensive, long-term and coherent, focusing on cooperation and coordination between actions and programmes, and between national, regional and local partners. Measures must be based on research-based knowledge and experience. It is necessary that value thinking permeates the entire life and function of the school. This gives individual school and school-leaders responsibility for monitoring quality developments also in the educational environment at each school. All experience suggests that good school management is a prerequisite for creating a school where everyone focuses on a good learning environment. Everyone in school must know the values and rules of the school and work to live up to them. School management and teachers must appear as clear adults with the will to follow the rules and regularly bring them up for discussion with the students. In practice, this means that the whole school community must have a common strategy to create the good learning environment in which neither bullying, violence, racism nor any other problem behaviour is accepted. This is why the Learning Centre has been given the task of developing a comprehensive strategy for the work on the learning and learning environment. They also provide guidance on the work of social skills to assist school owners and schools. The Government has also taken the initiative to launch the ‘Values in School Life’ project in order to enhance the dissemination and awareness of values in schools and in educational establishments. The Educational Centre has been commissioned to develop the project, which will be launched in the autumn. The Christian Educational Association has received support for a value project that will be a smaller part of the larger whole. This project could be an important complement to the overall work, including: because the project has a local profile with which the kindergartens have also been drawn. The Christian Educational Association shall cooperate with the Learning Centre in order to ensure the necessary coordination. The new teacher education message, which is first presented, will include a separate mandatory unit on the value and cultural dissemination of general teachers. These include: professional ethics and understanding of the purpose of the school components, which will also relate to the CRL subject. In addition, a separate mandatory subject on professional knowledge is proposed, including class management and home-school cooperation. Enhanced continuing education in school management is also proposed in the Communication. This is an important contribution to creating a good learning environment at individual schools. The Nordic Council of Ministers under the Norwegian Presidency has focused on values. A joint Nordic working group on democracy and values has been set up and national conferences are to be organised this year to stimulate increased efforts in the Nordic countries in this area. National conferences will be held in a joint Nordic conference on values in Helsinki in October 2002. Work on values must take place primarily at each school in cooperation with the homes and students. From a central point of view, we can provide schools with space for action, support and incentives to further develop work on values. Work against problem behaviour such as bullying, violence and racism is a priority area for the Government. School must have zero tolerance for such behaviour. The absence of threatening behaviour is a prerequisite for creating a safe and good learning environment. Attitudes against bullying, violence and racism require continuous and long-term efforts in close cooperation with parents and other sectors. Many schools can already show good results. Experience from these schools should be spread to others, and this will be actively contributed by the Ministry. Examples of such programs are the so-called ‘Olweus’, ‘It’s my choice’ from Lions Quest, KREPS and ‘Step by step’. The students themselves must also engage. The student inspectors are an Internet service from the Learning Centre where pupils in upper secondary and upper secondary education can provide their assessment of the school in relation to their subject and well-being. This will allow students to report on the class environment and help schools to prevent and take action against, for example: bullying. I would also like to mention some of the many central and regional measures that form part of the overall value distribution in school. The ministry can show more good experiences with school mediation. School mediation gives children and young people a fundamental understanding of conflicts and ways of dealing with disagreements. Work against racism and discrimination is also important. Current measures include the development of new educational tools for use in the school's awareness-raising work, with a focus on racism and discrimination. All primary schools in the country are challenged to develop driving rules for a culturally diverse Norway characterised by tolerance, free from racism and discrimination. Five schools will receive a price of NOK 10 000 each for this work before the summer. On behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research, the Learning Centre has produced a resource book for teachers on life and sexuality. The book provides help in dealing with matters such as love and love, sex pressure, abuse, etc. Training and prevention of cigarette smoking and the use and abuse of alcohol, drugs and drugs are part of the general prevention work aimed at all primary and secondary school students. The learning centre has a responsibility to follow-up this work and to provide regular reports on the school owner’s efforts. I also focus on showing the good examples and spreading the experience from these. Let me also mention a point on which the interpellant was concerned, namely that the school's work with values should also be included as a separate indicator in terms of quality assessment. I have asked the Quality Committee to provide a partial setting in the case of a quality assessment system. But I have noticed that in the system they are currently developing in Oslo, under the leadership of the same person who runs the Quality Committee, the value base is an important indicator of what they are going to assess. In addition to learning outcomes, learning environments, etc., they shall also evaluate and assess the quality of their own value base. Let me finally say that I fully agree with the interpellant. This work is not primarily important because you have to push some special values on others, but because we have to rehearse each other's ability to reflect in a society where more and more choices need to be made by the individual, and how more and more choices are rather complex and implies that we have to address difficult ethical issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e433	I am pleased with the basic perspective of the Council of State's response, namely that the dimension of value and education is going to permeate the entire school's activities and lives. It's a perspective that's important to get involved in multidisciplinary cooperation, but also in school management and in teacher education. I am also very pleased with the government's emphasis on home-school cooperation. Just understanding that responsibility for training and assignment lies with parents makes the school a partner for parents. It also means that the dialogue in home-school cooperation becomes so central, and that this must be a mutual process – mutually in the sense that parents can influence the content of the school, but also in the sense that the school can provide advice and tips on child education. Parenting guidance is something we talk about in kindergarten, but it can also be used in primary school. I also think it's important that the Council of State emphasizes, to spread the good examples. There's a lot of good going on in Norwegian school in this area, and I think it's important to add up to a system where this gets spread, gets focused and also comes to other schools, as an inspiration for almost learning from each other's mistakes. So it's a will for concrete follow-up. I expect that the dimension of value and education will become an even more central part of the school policy debate. I have two challenges for the Council of State: one challenge is linked to teacher training. Although the Council of State has announced the arrival of a teacher education message, I noted with interest that the Council of State said that it would be a mandatory unit, a mandatory subject of values and culture for the teachers. I also realized that the Council of State said that it would be a separate subject of professional knowledge. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on whether home-school cooperation is a central part of the content of this piece. Then I note with satisfaction the Council's response on this with its own quality assessment indicators related to values and educational work. I think that's necessary. I think it's important that we promise that without these quality indicators, we can't say whether a school has a good quality or not. It'll be too one-sided just to look at the character results. Finally, I look forward to the debate and to hearing other parties' perspectives and attitudes to the school's task.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e448	Now we haven't submitted this message about teacher training yet, but I can confirm – since the message has been quite publicly debated already – that we are going to propose two mandatory units, one of which is called cultural and value dissemination, which I believe is an important unit in relation to the purpose of the school and the connection with the CRL subject, which I was in on, and a unit that we have called professionalism, such as: focuses on the important leadership role of teachers, including in an educational perspective, on which the inter-pellant is involved. Home-school cooperation will be a very central part here. I very much agree that home-school cooperation is important. We have experience to say that. Today at school you could say that when we talk about values, it might almost sound theoretical, but if we're going to do it completely practical, it's about education or maybe about social forms, being able to have social forms that are to live with, both for yourself and for others. Unfortunately, there are too many examples in school today that we do not have them. It not only destroys the learning environment, but also, of course, the learning outcomes. What turns out to be the most effective method of doing something about this and working with values is just to involve not only students, teachers and school leaders, but also the parents, and then to conclude a social contract on what basic values and rules of conduct apply here. It is about basic values, but it is also about the ability to empathise and reflect on behaviour and practices. It turns out that when it comes to making such social contracts about the school community, you can also do something about the problems associated with problem behaviour, bullying, violence and racism that we can unfortunately hear on a daily basis. You can do something about it and prevent it in the longer term. It's very enjoyable, because it shows that it's useful. Once again, I fully agree with the interpellant. I occasionally stumble over the strong reactions that come from some teams to conduct a quality assessment in the school. Personally, I don't think the quality of the school should be secret, but I think there's a chance to expand the perspective, beyond what's rumors so to say on the street, and beyond what's a narrow look at the grades. It may be important enough both rumors and characters, for that matter, but this perspective needs to be expanded. We need to get a better factual basis, which is more objective and better measured, and which includes more. Learning outcomes are important, but it is clear that there are other things that it is important to focus on. With interest, I noticed that some places are also happening in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e457	It's an important topic that the interpellant here addresses. A value discussion dealing with our children and young people includes a wide range of issues. We know that our society is changing all the time, and it's making us parents and teachers have to catch up and tackle the issues that always apply. Having general discussions about values means I'm relatively simple, and that also includes a very large degree of consensus. The strenuous political exercise and disunity come when we start to be concrete about the content of the concept of value. We know that our school in recent years has been given new tasks and issues that we, as politicians and society, believe it is important that the school takes responsibility for. We have recently received frightening figures on the extent of bullying in the Norwegian school. That a lot of students are bullying each other is, of course, unacceptable. But when we also see teachers bullying their students, then we are witnessing a gross insanity. I think the first step is to start taking bullying seriously -- that as parents and teachers we have to take greater responsibility together. Plans are well and good, but I think this is about proximity and about community. We must have clear adults who are present with our children throughout the school day. It will have a preventative effect in itself. Then we also have to achieve, as the Council of State was about, a closer dialogue between parents and teachers when difficult situations arise. And then, as parents, we need to be more good at making direct contact with each other when different situations occur. I have noticed that the Council of State has had a positive commitment around these issues, and I hope that she will focus and carry it forward in her further work. So a little bit about the second topic that the interpellant addresses, the more general in the school's value distribution. We heard that the representative was concerned with the recognition of human dignity, and we can agree on that very much. But we can't say that and in the next moment discriminate. Is the Christian People's Party and the representative Lyngstad willing to set the highest human dignity – without reservation? Yes, we hear that it is claimed that there is something predictable and ritual about the questions that have come about the value project that is now going into the Norwegian school. No, there's nothing ritual about it, but it's a sincere concern and actually a disagreement about what is the recognition of human dignity, and what the Norwegian school is going to focus on in a value debate. We know that the problems and challenges of Norwegian youth are many and complex, and not at all uniform. Many struggle with the relationship to their own body and sexuality. That's why I finally have a very specific question to the Council of State. We know the Christian People's Party's views on this topic, but I want to ask the Council of State if she believes that a value project directed by the Christian Educational Association is acceptable, if it does not legitimize homophilic behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e478	Value added is important and a continuous value debate is necessary. It is important to focus on the positive at a time when many people think that negative trends are taking over, and where the value debate is easily angled from a negative angle. A debate of values where the starting point is violence, racism, and bullying can be self - strengthening. Values are positive, therefore, debates must have a positive approach, and I am pleased with the weight of both the inter-pellant and the Council of State on the positive circulation of value. The school is an important arena, but it cannot be stressed enough that it is at home the most important work is being done. The school is just – and can only be – an important co-player. We must not get a society where responsibility is more and more taken from home and left to school. In the case of assignment, where not least the dissemination of value is important, homes have to play a leading role. It does not prevent the school from playing an important role as a value broker. I am pleased with the Government's strong emphasis on enhancing value sharing and awareness. This is evident both through the Sem Declaration and through the support for the value project of the Christian Educational Association. I must say for my part that I am pleased that this project, upon application, receives financial support from two departments. And I must be allowed to admit that I have difficulty understanding the critical support for this project. The project is carried out in cooperation with the Learning Centre. It's well worked out and thoughtful, it opens up and places emphasis on great local freedom in implementation, and it's part of a larger whole. I repeat: the criticism is difficult for me to understand – because there can be no significant objection that the organization has the word Christian in its name? So I do not share the concern expressed by the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim in previous articles. The government’s response was to the concept of school mediation. I see this as an important work and a very successful element in raising students' awareness of value. Learning to understand how conflicts are created, how conflicts can be resolved, and how to really contribute to the solution through your own efforts is a fine way to convey values and teach students to take responsibility for value building. There must be continuous work at school and a continuous debate in society in order to strengthen the dissemination and awareness of values. I am pleased that the Government also shows in practice that the work is important, and that the school can be sure to receive the necessary support to carry out the work at the individual school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e498	I want to repeat what I have said from the pulpit a few times, that to me as a father with two children in elementary school, this is a very important debate. At the same time, it becomes a regrettable paradox that some of the values public refers to today's school is a school in decline. There is building mass in decay, and there are toilets that cannot be used. So simple and so banal it's actually now, and then it's not very comforting that this should be improved in the next eight years. It was more of a heart attack than a main post. So a couple of points. I shall say, as one of those who has been a bit critical, that we have asked some questions about how it has been possible to find money for one specific applicant so quickly and so easily. Among other things, we have heard in the answers given both by the Prime Minister and I also believe from the Minister of Education that no less than 14 million have been allocated. for different actions over one year – some of which have gone over a period of time as well. It could actually be good to get an overview to the Storting about what's going on with different attitude projects, and to evaluate what's good, and what might be less good. What we're concerned about is we're not reinventing the wheel. We know, among other things: that Norwegian Lions have spent a good many years in Norwegian school — I know it myself as a parent — with very well documented results and with very little public funding. I don't think they've actually realized that it's been possible to apply for public funds, but they're probably taking the award to the Christian Educational Association as an incentive to apply. So finally, in the discussion about values and formation, there's been too little talk about bullying. That's the sad tip of the scale from good values and a good formation to the sad opposite. What has emerged, to a great deal of worry over some time now, is that this has a worrying dimension within Norwegian school. I may be missing activity here in the short term to try to remove some of this obscenity. My appeal to the Council of State is to encourage the school owners from the department to use the law, and I cannot help but understand that on the basis of both Sections 2 to 9 and 3 to 7 of the Training Act, the rules of procedure for all the municipal schools and the schools owned by the county councils must be inserted into the regulations that we must now have and practice zero tolerance against bullying. And it also has to be accompanied by a proven set of sanctions. But we have to start now. There's no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e509	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. There's a cross-political agreement to bet on values in school. Through both the media and different information, everyone has become aware of the widespread bullying in school and the need to have a work environment law that applies to both students and students. And by the extent of eating disorders we see in school, I think it's time to get a ban on advertising. The school has, as it was said by the interpellant, as one of its most important tasks to give a safe growth, to be a meeting place for different cultures, for single parents, for rich and for poor, at all to make people respect each other. Questions have been asked, including: by Karita Bekkelem Orheim, concerning the 4.5 million. kr that the Christian Educational Association has been awarded. I wonder if they have been awarded this when the minister has repeatedly called for an overall commitment to values in school, and when the Learning Centre is running a large-scale project where the same values and the same value are included. What is the contribution of the Christian Educational Association? Public schools are important in investing in values and having a meeting place where all young people from different classes and cultures have the opportunity to meet. I have noticed the big turnaround that the Council of State has made in school policy, from investing in public schools to bet in private schools – a considerable increase in financial investment in private schools and a release of them – while SV has been committed to removing all parental payments in school. Ten thousand students, as we know last year, did not have the opportunity to attend camp school, but had to be home because their parents couldn't afford to let them attend. This is about values. When the minister is busy putting up with school money in private schools, it goes without saying that there will be a great opportunity that not all students in Norway will be able to attend private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e518	The school has always been concerned with values and attitudes, and there is nothing new. But new tasks are going into Norwegian school, and it creates transformation, so that a constant awareness of the actual role of the school needs to be made. And it's not particularly in Norway that we do. Last week I was a member of the Council of Europe's Cultural Committee and discussed the cultural identity in Europe. We agreed there in a report that there are some basic things that are important in terms of value transfer and cultural awareness, and that the school here has an important responsibility. I could then tell you about our CRL subject as an example of how we do it. And so we're not alone in this. Pope John Paul II said that Christian Europe must breathe with both its lungs, both western and eastern. Atheism has gone down, and the sociologists who proclaimed that humanity is progressing toward perfection got a break through the experience of two world wars. In our time it's enough to mention September 11th. Scientific and technological progress not only brings prosperity but must go hand in hand with moral and spiritual development. So far the Council of Europe. Nobody's neutral in this. A cultural awareness and identity is the best foundation for any country to promote human rights, respect and tolerance. That's where the school's role comes in, because this has to be learned and trained and is no matter what. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a lot of good work in school today, but more can be done to improve the quality of the learning environment and to raise awareness of attitudes. When, among others: 100000 students are involved in bullying, suggesting that something needs to be done differently. Lions Quest's scheme 'That's my choice' is used in many schools, and has just been evaluated. It shows that pilot schools have better results than control schools in several areas. 56 pst. The pilot school students say they've never been bullied, while there's only 28 pst. in the other schools. This is the result of systematic work with emphasis on class environment and social skills. It's useful to bet. Here the teacher is the key, but also the principal must be committed to the bullying plans contained in the school's business plans. The integration of this into teacher training is also very important, and bullying programmes should be offered to all higher education institutions. When we know that something has been tested and gives effect, the department should also make this visible and get this into teacher training. In its school initiative, the Value Commission received 2 000 input from school actors. It shows that many people pay attention to values in the everyday lives of children and young people. The school is next to the family the most important moral institution in society. I'm glad the Council of State underlined this. The human Community values are not determined once and for all, but must be tested in continuous dialogue. As long as we have conversations, we keep on seeing that we belong to a moral community. And the school is precisely based on Christian and humanistic values.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e532	As I have understood the intention in particular. Towards a richer goal, the work of developing a good learning environment must go into a continuous work of holding and values. Prevention and mastering of negative behaviour and choice are obviously in everyone's interest. So everyday life is so that teachers always have to balance being good professionals while being good value brokers. We don't see anything either – or, there must be room for both – and. But we need to be aware that value and value take time. It's right, as the Council of State was about, that there's already a lot of good stuff going on. There's a great commitment among teachers and school guidance, and we have e.g. Step-by-step, KREPS, Lions Quest and Dialogue – all have better interaction methods and respect is very important. In concrete terms, I would like to mention an action that has been tried in Hordaland within the next school. There's something a so-called student inspector has added, not because they're inspectors, but because they're supposed to have the right pay. They're actually contact teachers, they're students in cooperation with the Student Council. One of the points is just to focus on the value debate, but it is the students themselves who are the driving force in relation to what is important to put on the agenda. The student help that this teacher gives can be of a personal nature, there can be a professional choice, there's a lot to learn about democratic rules, there's a rush, bullying, common folk and Russian celebration. All of this is a theme that students themselves see is decisive for everyone to enjoy. The fact that a person can take advantage of the situation by his own school, makes this a success. The adult is a kind of lawyer, or a link between the student group and the school guidance. Class managers or professionals are not always the most likely to contact – not least we have become aware of this now in relation to the fact that teachers bully elephants. My point is that a scheme that already exists must be built on. Tribulation is the foundation of all learning, and then also time for contact with each individual student becomes the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e545	I think the debate has shown that there is excitement about the school's task, and that it requires an overall learning vision where you have both teaching, knowledge and mastering within as important perspectives. Nor do I see – like the representative Aksnes – that there is a contradiction between being highly professional and being concerned with the student's social and human development. These are two sides of the same thing – the same dimensions. It is a challenge for us to organise so that all these perspectives go hand in hand in hand with the further development of the school and also in teacher training. Furthermore, I would like to say that I feel that there is a great deal of excitement about the public school in Norway, and I agree with the representative Lena Jensen when she says that it has been a common meeting place for us. It has contributed to the cohesion and thinking of equivalency and equality in society, which have been central and important. I also feel that there is a cross-political will to continue to invest in public schools. At the same time, respect for parents' choices is important. If parents want a stronger — call it — assignment in line with their own values, there should be freedom to act then by being able to choose another school. One of the ideological lines of conflict in school policy is perhaps the consequence of parental law and parental responsibility, where at least the Christian People's Party stands out from the thinking of the Socialist Left Party. Then I agree with the representative of Bekkelem Orheim that it is very easy to conduct general discussions. When we go into the content of the concept of value, it immediately becomes more conflictable. But that is precisely the dialogue we want in school – also the conflict-filled dialogues. For dialogue can create understanding, it creates community, and it can create action. As a result, it is also natural that the dialogue on the situation of homosexuals should be part of the school. Exchanges of opinion that we have in society for the rest of us are clear that we should also be able to have at school. Finally, I think it is necessary for us in school policy to focus on what the school's task is. And once we focus on the school's task, the educational and value dimension of the school will also have a strong and important role to play.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e558	The President assumes that the Council of State would like the last word.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e561	Since we're talking about education, I want to be so formed that I answer the questions I've been given. And then I registered a couple. The representative of Sortevik was involved in this larger allocation of approx. $14 million. NOK that goes to value at school, and asked questions about whether you could get a more complete overview of what this money is going to do, and of course I would like to contribute if it is desirable. Then there was a specific question from the representative of Bekkemel Orheim about this after every famous Christian Educational Association and the allocation that has gone there, which is 500,000 kroner from the Ministry of Education and Research and 250 000 kroner from the Ministry of Children and Family, together, 750,000 kroner. And she asked if it shouldn't be a condition, as far as I could understand, that this connected then accepts, as she expressed it – I think she said – ‘homophile behavior’. Well, I just have three-four things to say to it. First of all, I think it's a proper observation to say that the question of whether you accept this, there's disagreement about the inner Church and Christian organizations as in many other organizations. There are shared opinions on this, and I think it is also in the Christian Educational Association. I have not seen or heard a word saying that there should be any central theme from this related to this project. They do not intend to engage in munitions. On the contrary, they shall spread experience, they shall almost operate a kind of dissemination of experience and ‘benchmarking’, in order to use such an expression, in terms of how value creation can be carried out. That's what's in the project sketch that probably the representative Beckemel Orheim could also get into. And of course, all this work is to be done within what is the school's purpose paragraph, rules, framework, etc. But I just want to say at the end: if you think this is going to be a problem, I think it's a strong under-estimation of these people as educators. They're very skilled, they're used to working at school, and they know of course what they're doing, and they're going to be able to handle this very well. I think it's going to be a very positive contribution to the value we're doing, and that therefore involves many more measures than this one, which I think may have received a little too much attention in relation to what they could deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e572	The examination of case No. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e590	A basic principle of the Norwegian school system is that each student should receive the best possible education in relation to his/her abilities and assumptions. The objective of the quality best education for individual life is established. Pupils who do not benefit satisfactorily from regular education services are entitled to special education and such education shall be equivalent to that given to other groups of students — not equal but equivalent. If this goal is to be achieved, more things have to be in place. There must be sufficient funding through public budgets, good organisation of education, the need for special pedagogical competence at all levels, good dialogue between the parties involved, and, in particular, good dialogue with parents and supervisors. In my opinion, the principles of structure and organisation are very well expressed in the Inst. S. No 160 for 1990-91, which states that the Committee supports the main points of view of: ‘all children, young people and adults have the right to be offered training in their own growing-up environment and agree that integration, normalisation and equivalency are important principles of Norwegian education policy. It is important to build good local services in the home settings of students.’ Public budgets allow large sums to meet the objective. From my point of view, there is no claim that too much is allowed, but I think it is important to look at how the funds are used. All means must be used to ensure the objective, and all organisation must be such as to ensure the objective: optimal education for the individual. It is essential to avoid the use of available resources, both human and financial, at internal meetings and intercommunications between specialists and bodies to an extent that leaves little room for those who really do, namely the students. I also think there is reason to point out that some places may be a trend towards smearing resources too thinly, i.e. the introduction of ‘a small measure’ to pupils who do not really need it. It must be possible to distinguish between students who need only a little extra attention in some subjects, i.e. entirely normal adaptation to education within the framework of the normal class, and those students who really need help and who prove not to have a satisfactory benefit from the regular education provision. This overdiagnosis and over-clientisation in school makes it more likely that those who really need help most do not get what they need. By decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in 1991, in the context of the proceedings of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. S. No 160, state special schools were reorganized into centres of expertise and the Inner. S. No A reallocation of resources from centres of excellence to local level was carried out in 1997-98. There is reason to ask questions as to whether this has been achieved. Is local competence strengthened? Have more of the resources come closer to users? Has the PP service been strengthened where it was not well developed? Int. S. No The Committee further states that ‘the specialised training centres should have a user-friendly profile and assist with knowledge and insight that can benefit the individual student, supervisor and kindergarten/school in their everyday lives’. Has this excellent intention been achieved? I think it is worth noting that in the field of hearing and vision, where the centres still have to a large extent the training provision they had before 1992, the feedback from the user groups is extremely positive. The fact that one has been confident that this offer would be an alternative on the day when ‘including’ training arrangements at the local school were no longer sufficient has contributed to increased freedom of choice, the security of parents and students — and indeed to a greater degree of successful integration. The working group set up to investigate the future organisation, dimensioning, location and funding of the State support system for hearing-impaired people, the Sun Sunå sample, concludes that this system should be organised in the future in the form of four state competence centres offering the following: primary school training, where appropriate part-time training, for sign-language students, technical assistance and housing and environment services for sign-language students in secondary education, student training, sign-language training for parents, and investigation and counselling. The work of the committee is thorough and the conclusions seem reasonable. The committee gave its opinion in January 2001. The consultation period is too long, and it is hoped that the report from the sample will soon be forwarded to the system and processed. The reallocation of resources from centres of expertise to local level in 1998 also launched a three-year competence development programme for the PP service and school leaders across the country, the Association. It is very good that there is a planned effort to enhance skills and develop competences. My experience is that the Samtak programme has been useful and that on the basic level it has given many positive impulses in school life. However, work has been highly focused on system work. Too strong focus on system work can lead to less focus on the individual and on individual-oriented work. Any system, however good it may be, is worthless if it does not have the individual student as a starting point and as a goal. I am seriously concerned that too much resources, not least in the case of professional staff, are being spent on system work, while the work directed directly at the student, the user, is being left to staff at the individual school, staff who do not have the necessary professional competence. These people do an excellent job in many cases, but are often concerned about lack of self-sufficiency and lack of available skills in the community. It is to the extent that it is ‘in’ to carry out system work, but it must not be ‘out’ to carry out individual work — nor for the special educational professionals. In an article in Statped, the information sheet of the State Special Educational Support System, No. 1 for 2002, Britain Drabitzius, Executive Director of the ADHD Association, writes on page 23: «A great deal of good research and development is being done at centres of excellence. We are pleased, and our hope is that this work will benefit everyone. Nevertheless, if we could prioritise, we would like more individualised work from the centres, so that everyone who needs it can get the help they need, wherever they live." Such opinions should be emphasised. In the same article, Brita Drabitzius refers to user involvement. She highlights the importance of user representation at the centres and in the Central User Forum. Dialogue between institutions, centres of expertise and supervisors is important in order to achieve the objective. In that case, the perpetrators must be given the opportunity to engage in real dialogue and to make serious recordings. School-home cooperation is important and for many schools an important field of activity. In particular, this cooperation is important in relation to the homes of children who need — and have the right — special education. On the basis of this, I have allowed myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: What will and can the Council of State do to ensure that the quality of the provision to children, young people and adults with special training needs is optimised?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e628	As the interpellant says, the responsibility lies for adapted training in municipalities and county municipalities. In this respect, I would like to recall that adapted training is a general principle, which applies not only to students with special difficulties but also to students with special abilities. However, the starting point for this interpellation is students with learning difficulties, and I therefore limit myself to this in my answer here. A large amount of money is allocated to provide students with the education they are entitled to. All students shall have a teaching yard metal with the minimum level prescribed by the regulations. In addition to this minimum hour, an additional 55 pst is used. teacher hours for teaching purposes at primary school today. Most of these additional resources go to so-called sharing hours or to special education after a single decision. Sharing hours, which benefit all students, are resources for different types of differentiation and organisation of training — in the form of classrooms, two-teacher systems, group instruction, etc. The resources for special education following individual decisions are partly used for specific measures such as one hour, small group instruction, use of assistants, etc. Special education involves relatively comprehensive procedures with expert judgement, formal decisions, access to justice, preparation of individual training plans and half-yearly back-reporting to students/parents and school owners. In addition to those resources for sharing hours and special education, funds are also available for Norwegian training, language and bilingual vocational training for foreign languages as well as other educational activities. It can therefore be concluded that we use considerable resources for specific reinforcement actions. This should provide a solid basis for well-adapted training, in conjunction with an average small class size in primary school. Similarly, in secondary education there are relatively small groups and classes and considerable resources for special education, providing good opportunities for adapted training. Otherwise, it can be established that the extent of specific training measures varies considerably locally, despite the relatively even geographical distribution of learning difficulties. About 6 pst. special education is given by primary school students after individual decisions, and these receive an average of about 1 000 students per year. 175 hours per dose. years. However, the proportion of primary school students receiving special education shows wide variations between municipalities in the same country and often between schools in the same municipality. And there's no «logical» connection between many sharing hours and getting special classes or vice versa. Several have argued that perhaps the main cause of these large local variations lies in different local cultures, with different pedagogical and special educational traditions. In addition, statistics show that about seven out of ten hours of special education following individual decisions go to boys. In order to assist schools, there is a statutory pedagogical and psychological service in municipalities and county municipalities, which have the task of assisting in the development of measures for the training of pupils with special needs. In addition, we have the State special educational support system, which will provide various forms of assistance to the training authorities when it is not reasonable to expect that there is sufficient professional competence locally. In St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98, On training for children, young people and adults with specific needs, total municipal, county and state expenditure on special education and other special educational measures for 1998 was estimated at around DKK 6 billion. In addition, expenditure comes from strengthening measures in the form of sharing hours, which also benefit students with specific training needs. So what comes out of this total resource usage? Is this how the interpellant suggests that the funds allocated are not necessarily used after the intention to provide the best possible education for the individual? Here it's much harder to give a clear answer. I have noticed that the assessments of the scope, content and organisation of special education, as well as the assessments of the results, vary greatly. Various studies show that teachers like to think that there is too little special education, despite the fact that the extent is already very significant. Parents also seem to feel that there is too little resources for special education and special arrangements. What do the researchers say about special pedagogical practice? There are no unambiguous answers, but among others: a few of the main conclusions of the State-funded research programme ‘Special Educational Knowledge and Action Development’, which was concluded in 1998/99, are: Firstly, the Norwegian single school has had a low tolerance for individual variations and a tendency to focus on students’ difficulties and not their mastery potential. Secondly, there is still a lot to be done before conditions are set up for students with weak professional and social learning requirements. Schools must become more liberal towards new forms of organisation, practices and methods, and only focus on actions that show proven positive effects. As mentioned above, the responsibility for adapted training lies locally, but the State has overall system responsibilities. In recent years, therefore, various state measures have been taken in the special field of education with a view to achieving a more balanced use of resources and better quality services. In St.meld. No There was a broad review and analysis of the special pedagogical measures and services at municipal, county and state level. One of the concrete measures in the Communication was to build up parts of the State Special Educational Support System and transfer freed up resources to the local PP service. Thus, the PP service has been strengthened by approx. 20 pst. or 300 new trade unions, most of them from the autumn of 1999, and intercommunal cooperation in the field has intensified with the establishment of professional centres of gravity. At the same time, the State support system shall disseminate, to a greater extent than in the past, new special pedagogical knowledge from research to the local PP service and the school sector and contribute to the sustainable development of local competences. In parallel, a three-year competence development programme for PP services and school leaders, called the Association, has been launched since 2000, with particular emphasis on behavioural problems, reading and writing difficulties, complex learning difficulties and systemic work. National education offices and centres of excellence are involved in this work. A research-based evaluation of the Joint Programme and the strengthening of the PP service will be available in spring 2003. In 2001, the Ministry issued a guide on special education in primary and secondary education, covering legislation, procedures and processes, with a view to improving the quality of special educational work locally. Thus, in recent years, several measures have been implemented by the State to ensure the quality of training provision for pupils with special needs. And as I have explained, there should be no doubt that the use of resources in this field has been and is very significant. But in my opinion, in the field of special education, as in the Norwegian school in general, too much emphasis has been placed on quantitative thinking and resource discussions, and too little attention has been paid to the quality of teaching and the student's learning outcomes. Many have probably believed that the Norwegian school is one of the world's best schools, which also takes care of the weak students in an exemplary way. More recent Norwegian and international studies show that not everything is as good as it is, either in terms of professional understanding, literacy, attitudes towards schoolwork, learning strategies or problem behaviour. The Ministry is now trying to address the challenges posed by the PISA study and other reports. A lot is now going on to reverse the course at school. In the case of pupils with learning difficulties, the main contribution of the State will be to promote quality development in schools in general. We have started work on strengthening basic training – it will benefit all students. Furthermore, it is important to make use of the educational, organisational and methodological space available to the school. I will actively contribute to the resolution of key provisions that can prevent local initiatives, flexibility and adaptations and that do not have a sensible purpose. Knowledge of good solutions and experiences needs to be disseminated more effectively than today. Good educators that students must respect by virtue of their professional knowledge and authority, and who are able to disseminate their knowledge, will be among the best means of developing the school further. Teachers must appear as clear leaders. While the role of parents will be safeguarded in good dialogue with the school, there will be room for initiative and participation of pupils in the development of the school further. Special education or other measures are taken against many different groups, including: visually impaired, hearing impaired, mentally impaired, students with language and speech problems and students with professional problems. However, the highest attention is given to those students who receive special training due to behavioural problems, usually combined with professional qualifications. Finally, therefore, some comments on the large and partly increasing level of school unrest and fighting. The major challenge of the school is to develop an inclusive and adapted training for all students, where everyone gets the chance to succeed. The school must take more seriously than so far the consequences of students being differently equipped and having different abilities and interests. I'm afraid that some of the problems with trouble in the classes can be due to the fact that the theoretically weak students experience the school as a distance from reality and are thus judged to be defeat. In this area, we have major challenges. I therefore want to work purposefully to develop models for increasing student participation in the practical working life. But, for whatever reason: bullying, fighting and violence shall not be tolerated. I'm paying particular attention to the close relationship between calm in class and good learning outcomes. Central authorities have supported the work of municipalities and provided resources for various effective programmes to combat problem behaviour and bullying, such as: The Olweus program, Lions Quest and KREPS. In the case of low-educated pupils, appropriate professional training in an orderly environment is a good protection against defeat and against marginalisation in adulthood. I have therefore reinforced the work to improve the learning and growth environment. In this context, enhanced school management is also important, ensuring consistent enforcement. The learning centre is now working with a guidance centre on the development of social skills and in connection with this two complementary guidance document for the school's work on pupils with significant behavioural problems. Here it will be underlined that the school owner has a large register to play on. All the essentials of the school's response to socio-emotional problems must be in home school, but I would also like to point to the possibility of differentiation in the use of alternative training arenas for school leavers and out-of-school young people. In a more recent review of programmes and measures to reduce problem behaviour and develop social skills, many so-called ‘alternative school services’ are given a consistently positive assessment. I want to focus on seeing these measures as a flexible and natural organisational part of the training provision, preferably related to home school. I don't want to lead the old special schools in the back, but at the same time I see the opportunities and spaces of action that lie in new organizational frameworks and an environmental change for the students. Much is now done to improve the quality of initial training. In this context, it is important to provide for a systematic follow-up, reporting and assessment of the various measures to ensure quality and to prevent poor use of resources. I have therefore asked the Quality Committee, which is to submit its inquiry in the spring of 2003, to provide a partial opinion on quality assessment and quality development by 15 June at the latest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e683	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was both comprehensive and profound. In its introduction, the Council of State recalled that adapted training is a general principle that also includes pupils with special abilities, and it is a good reminder that a very rare one hears. My starting point this time, however, were students with special training needs. When the total appropriations today are on, as the Council of State says, about NOK 10 billion, it must of course be that they are used as far as possible after the intention. I feel and believe that much can be done to ensure that the funds meet better and really when the individual student in the best possible way. Organisation, working methods and working methods are core words. I believe the Council of State has an important point in the fact that a school that is more liberal towards organisation and working methods, and which is aware of its commitment to positive action, will be better able to achieve its objective. And the state council manages to move the school from traditional square thinking to a school that is characterized by the will to use the space of action that exists, and then she has done a good job. In his article, the Council of State referred to the Calling Programme, and I was a little into it in my first post. Here it is undoubtedly very valuable. But as I said in my post, the program is very focused on system work. My fear is that individual work is faded, because system work is given higher status, while the professionals are involved in that part. The work may then be directed at the individual sufferer. I would like to repeat that a system work that is not the starting point and goal of individual life is worthless. We know that in many parts of the country professional competence is a defect, even within this field. I would like to be allowed to challenge the Council of State to make some comments about this balancing, and finally, I would like to ask exactly where in the Sunna Committee's report is, and when we can expect the report to be processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e698	I can understand the interpellant's concern about the balance between individual and system-based work. It is important that both the PP service and the State support system do not lose contact with the practice field. It may be easy for anyone to understand that in a hectic work situation it may be tempting to distance themselves from users of meat and blood and rather to stay in system-oriented work, with network construction and organisational development, but there must be a reasonable balance between what we can call individualised work and system-oriented work. For this reason, the Ministry has also underlined to the support system that close contact with the field of practice is necessary, especially in relation to so-called low-frequency groups, and systemic efforts to build skills on a sustainable local basis. I fully agree that this balance is important that we cannot neglect one field. As for the second question that was now asked, about the report of the Sunna Committee, the interpellant was even in his post. They provided the setting, well a year ago it was well, and it was unanimous in saying all the points. Afterwards, there has been a broad consultation round showing that there are probably slightly more different and divided views than the report could suggest. But I aim to give the Storting a general orientation on progress, on future financing, etc. in the hearing area of the 2003 Municipal Proposition, and I intend to return to Stortinget with concrete proposals for the future organisation, dimensioning and localisation of various actions for hearing impaired persons in the context of the 2003 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e705	It is important and right that the Storting has care and focus on those in our society who have special needs. In this area, there are many considerations to consider, and I would like to say that it is easy to get lost in the jungle of systems, schemes, decision-makers and implementing actors. It is important to maintain that all children have an individual right to adapted education, regardless of the finances of the municipalities. If the need is demonstrated, the teaching shall be carried out. KS has focused on this. In several municipalities, there are very interesting trials with different forms of adapted training. It's about both liberalism and organization. In some municipalities all funds have been allocated directly to each school and the school itself has organized all organized education. Feedbacks here show that in this way one-to-one education, i.e. one student, one teacher, is largely avoided. You get a lot more flexibility when the school has the whole pot, the whole resource, to dispose of. And it's important in these cases that you don't always have a one-to-one education, because it leads easily to stigmatisation and that you can get an isolation of students that we know might need extra support. Here I am concerned about something that I am extremely concerned about, and which I want the committee to also take up and the Storting to follow, that organized training must be given in a situation where the student feels like a winner and not a loser, which both professionals and parents are very conscious of. All organised training must be part of the process of creating winners, and if you are to be a winner, you must also be a winner in your own eyes. On that basis, you can discuss what is good quality, precisely because there are so many factors that you have to succeed in getting the student to have the best possible offer. Since this is an individual statutory right, municipalities have to pay what it costs, and for various reasons we know that these expenses have exploded in the last five to six years. In line with the L97, individual training plans for all students can be a good solution, both for the strong and for the less strong students. Maybe this is where the bump should be inserted. In any case, it is important that professionals have the power to create a learning situation that gives winners – each at their level and according to their assumptions. And then we did it, and then we have the right quality. I hope that the Council of State will be able to give some feedback on just this. What can the Council of State do to ensure that you receive organized education, not to reinforce stigmatisation and renunciation, but to receive organized education where the student is a winner, a winner in his own eyes and, as I said, a winner in the eyes of others? [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e718	The president reminds me that speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e721	The interpellant addresses an important issue here that everyone involved in the school community is deeply concerned about, whether you are a student, a teacher or a parent. I therefore think it is very positive that, both through the interpellation and through the response of the Council of State, solutions are described which, to a far greater extent than what may have been the policy in force in the past, put individual individuals, individual lives, in focus instead of the system. I think maybe a little bit of what permeates several aspects of this government's policy is that you look at the individual who uses the public services instead of just focusing on having good system arrangements. All the enquiries that I and certainly others have received from teachers who are in a class situation with the problem there and then, and who are asking for help to solve it to the individual class, to the individual user, relate to complaints that the system is not working, and so far we have been concerned about patching up the system. That's why I think it's very positive that we're now focusing on the user, on the individual individual, on the individual class situation. Governments also pointed out in their response that there are considerable variations in local consumption — we should call it — of organized education, while there are no such large variations in the population as such. It also indicates that there is a system failure, to the extent that we have not managed to spread the qualitatively good tip competence to the level where it really belongs: on the user level. I also think it is very positive that the Council of State pointed out that there should be greater local freedom, both for the use of alternative schools and for finding locally adapted solutions. Then I think we also have to look at the previous interpellation, which was about attitudes and how we perceived the school system, because it's enough that we've been instilled in a tradition over many decades that is that we're going to comply with centralized directives and ministerial circulars and regulations. I think we also have a great job to do when it comes to changing attitudes in school, because that's an opportunity, it's desirable, and not least there's a need for us to also use local solutions. So the Council of State pointed out that a research-based evaluation of the Association and the PP service was to be carried out in spring 2003. With the large use of resources in this area, I would like to ask the Council of State whether a critical analysis of the use of resources is not also necessary in relation to concrete results across the whole area, which could be presented to the European Parliament for assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e734	The Council of State indicated that the theoretically weak students are often a disturbance in school. However, it has been demonstrated that so often there are the theoretically strong students who are so close that they create ‘action’ in terms of trouble and unrest. And what do we do with them? We spend thousands of millions of dollars on organized education and special education. Of this money, I assume that thousands of hours are spent to manage the support for the students' education. For me, it is a concern that we have made the law that students should be given competence, knowledge based on their assumptions, but I can't see that there is any quality assurance programme for the competence of the teachers who are to impart knowledge to the students. I have received many impressions through discussions with professionals that students are given extra hours in Norwegian, while no study has been made whether the student's needs are perhaps also being fed to people, respect for the rights of others to education, etc. When I find this to be addressed in relation to the lack of quality assurance of the teacher's appearance to students, it is because I am aware that the Learning Centre is working on a teaching system for high school students in the field of conflict management, without a single word about the teachers and their competence. At the same time, we know from the media that a significant proportion of young people in school are experiencing the bullying of the same teachers. Special education is an individual right following a single decision. Then it becomes important who owns the money that is released by a single decision. Users do not feel that they have the right to receive the money or the quality of the offer they are given. The ownership of the money becomes important when users, students and their parents experience that their individual rights are not taken seriously. We were concerned about this when it came to the closure and dismantling of the centres of expertise in the communication to which the Council of State referred. The party of progress was strongly opposed to it. We didn't think it had anything to do with it. Competence in the diversity of those working together, and their individual competences, and when this was broken up, diversity disappeared. Unfortunately, that is the situation we are facing today. I would therefore like the Council of State to say something during this debate about the possibility of rebuilding such structures in the future, for the sake of both the good children and the less theoretical children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e745	There was an exciting interpellation debate. We also discovered some of the spread within the Right when it comes to some important things in this area. First, a little bit about the centres of expertise, which the interpellant also took up. When we dealt with this big message and decided to reduce these centres of expertise, it was just to move the resources out to the individual municipality. The resources targeted at individuals were to be allocated more to each municipality. But then some of these centres of excellence are again competent in relation to behavioral problems. Behavioural problems are often linked to individual school systems. It will often be right to look at the way an organizer organises the system, to try to find out if it can be one of the causes of the behavioral problems of a school. It is therefore natural that part of this work is directed towards the systems of the individual school. I'm going to think that's what's going on. Then I want to address some of the things that are going on in the resource situation. We're in a situation where the schools' ram ti metal goes down. It has been a development in recent years that the framework hours, the hours available – and I am talking about primary school – for group division, individual offers, etc., have been reduced. These are the facts that we can just go into and look at in the statistics. At the same time as this frame hour goes down, the number of hours goes up on the basis of individual decisions. In other words, there is clearly a clear and strong link between the overall resource situation of schools and individual decision-making, where one decides to give each student a certain number of hours for strengthening within a subject area. It's a fundamental and important question to address, to dry out trying to reveal that context. And if that's the kind of context, which I say it's, and which I'm pretty sure it's, our challenge is to ensure a minimum of hours for each class, for each school, to reduce the use of individual decision-making hours. We have to get a lower frame for the hour. If we can make it happen, to ensure a minimum standard, a minimum ten-metal, I feel reasonably confident that the number of individual decision-making hours will go down, and we'll have a more collective use of these resources. We're going to have a more targeted use, and we're going to have a better use with the students who need special arrangements. My question to the Council of State will be, if I am allowed to ask a question – and I get it enough: Will the Council of State go in and see if it is the kind of relationship that I claim it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e756	It is an important theme that this interpellation focuses on — the quality of special education. Municipalities and county councils have been given responsibility for the training of all pupils, but the state has chosen to maintain state centres of excellence, which have a high level of professional excellence in the training of pupils with major disabilities, in order for these centres to provide outbound guidance. On behalf of municipalities, for example, they provide: school services for deaf, deaf and hearing-impaired people. In cooperation with higher education institutions and universities, R & D work is very important and the Learning Centre develops specifically organised teaching materials. In order to bring resources closer to users, 300 positions were taken from centres of excellence in 1998 and given to PPT. State specialised centres of excellence continue to have peak competence in terms of the most low frequency and complex. There is a strong focus on user involvement, and this must be done at both system and individual level. But the Christian People's Party believes that cooperation between centres of expertise and municipalities and county municipalities can become more dense, so that the competences of these centres are exploited even better. An important project has been carried out through the Association, on which the interpellant was involved, but children and young people with severe mental health problems were not involved in this project. It is therefore necessary to focus more on these now, perhaps in cooperation with the health sector. Students with major social and emotional problems often fall out of high school. Basic reading and writing training proves to be difficult. Some students don't get enough training, and not enough time is spent on learning. This must also be improved, and I look forward to a new teacher training where this can be reinforced. Today, not all teachers are well equipped to meet the needs of students with specific reading and writing difficulties. Expert judgement and organised training with an individual training plan are essential for the proper treatment of dyslexics. Skill enhancement is required both in school and in PPT to provide good help. For adult dyslexics to take primary and secondary schools, the Aetat offices require a division of responsibilities. The reading research centre in Stavanger says that it is important to bet on the skills of the teachers. Perhaps coordination between the State Education Offices and the centres of expertise can be strengthened to ensure that the resources reach their destination. There is a lot of good work going on today, but the organisation can get better. The Training Act is quite locked in these areas. Something can probably be embellished there, so that each school can be challenged to see new opportunities. But one important measure that helps everyone is that there will be more teachers per year. student. The new report by the Manneråk Committee points out that the rights of disabled people in school are relatively well respected and the legal right to special education is highlighted as decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e772	The President will assume that there will be fewer students per year. teachers, and no more teachers per year. student.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e775	Custom training and special education may be a diffuse subject. There are great possibilities for flexible schemes and different education within the system today, but there is a need for open schooling for those working within the school. Everyone has the right to customise training. Most of the elephants follow the normal plan that belongs to the class stage, while others need individual plans. They cannot follow the level or plan of the class. The new training law gives special citizens a stronger right to action than other elephants. Then there are different allocation practices from the municipality to the municipality. Experience from many municipalities shows that if they are able to distribute resources so that the schools have access to general strength, by allowing the schools to have access to class divisions, group activities and individual assistance, then the students get what they need to master their tasks. Without the general strength, many elephants will be destroyed. They lose professionally, and this in turn leads to the need for special education. Then there is a dilemma: will special education be necessary to ensure an equivalent benefit for students, or will students experience this as a label – a segregated measure – with which they are not familiar? It has our most focus on this with learning difficulties so far in the debate. Well, everyone with social problems is the group that turns out to be in greater need of help. They also have the right to education in relation to their leaders, and, as we have rightly said, the Association has seen the focus on elephants with socio-emotional difficulties. There are too many elephants that lose their fun early in their youth school and need alternative arrangements for periods. The organization of the school day can be made more flexible than today. Teacherpowers can also be more flexible. It is important that the schools are helped to identify the possibilities. This kind of behavioral problem is being used, and I think it is being used to an excessive extent. So what we're talking about here is just as much comfort problems. Many of the people we say have behavioral difficulties are great young people, but life has flourished for them, and they don't like the arrangements they have – they don't like to adapt to education, and that leads to, for example, that. Skeleton or unruly behavior, which for them is a logical solution to the situation they know they are in. [[The President clubs.]] State educational support system and centres of expertise are necessary, not least for those municipalities that have small PP offices. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e788	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e791	Case No. 3 here today is also an important topic. Three points related to this: It is true, as the interpellant says, that the main responsibility for adapted training lies with municipalities and county councils. Yeah, that's because of the law. They're monopolists. They deal with it most of the time here in terms of legislation. The party is concerned about the large and increasing volume of special education funds without demonstrable control and evaluation. In this respect, we ask questions as to how the supervisory authority exercises its supervisory responsibilities, linked to the fact that this is a right that is actually based on the provisions of the Training Act. That's the one. The second point is that it might be a little better quality assurance if parents get better control than they seem to have today, that they might have a greater influence on how special education funds are used, especially where they can point out that the student can obviously benefit from them elsewhere than through the special education demonstrated by the monopolistic. But this is a right after a single decision, which is attached to the individual student. My party colleague from the Progress Party also pointed to the question of who owns the money. Is it so that the parents, along with the student, can take with them the money they have been allocated after a single decision, also elsewhere? In some municipalities, unfortunately, this money seems to remain in the municipality if the parents were to think about going elsewhere to meet the teaching needs of the student who has received the single decision. So finally the third point: in many municipalities with poor finances, education has been scrapped for many years. Therefore, it is a good measure that this government has once again invested some resources in pure teaching. We're often at an intersection here, the dimensioning of normal education has been scarcely made. It's added 100 million. kr to one additional lesson in Norwegian for 2–4. class steps from the autumn. My question to the Council of State is: how do you want to ensure that this class of teaching is actually a lesson for the students, and does not disappear on the road in dwindled municipal budgets at the school owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e802	The President has some doubts about who the term'monopoly' is referring to, but assumes that in this context the debate is about a school owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e805	First of all, I am pleased that the Council of State said that it was important that it was close to the field of practice, as it was expressed. I think it is important that those who are professionals have close contact with the school and with the students who are at the center of education. I am also very pleased that the Council of State was concrete when it came to the Sunå Committee. I am also aware that the hearing opinions show that the consensus contained in the sample is somewhat tiled, and that there are more opinions than there was. But I'm glad we're about to get this report processed. Otherwise, I agree with what the representative, Eva Nielsen, said that the student should be the winner. There are too many students who have been awarded extra hours throughout primary school to learn the multiplication table, but who have never learned it. It's clear that a fifth year student goes in and gets extra hours to learn the multiplication table, doesn't go to these hours with pleasure. There is no good learning situation. Otherwise, I think the debate has shown that the organisation is important for success. It is important to define this as meaning that it does not mean equal organisation everywhere, but that the organisation needs to be adapted to the individual municipality and school. Localization will need to be a key concept. I am also aware that when the centres of expertise were converted, the idea was that the competence should be out, and positions were created in counties or regions. It was often the case that, until these posts, recruitment came from the local PP offices, and the vacancies in the municipal PP offices were not always filled. Still, this is the case, at least in my state, which is perhaps the state that got the worst out of that very piece, that there are vacancies in the municipal PP offices. Thus, the competence has not come out to the extent that it was desirable. Otherwise, I would like to support the representative, Reikvam, in his assumption that when the Ramti metals go down, i.e. when there are fewer split hours, the hours go up on the basis of the individual decisions. I think it must be indisputable that this is the way it is. It will therefore be important for municipalities to be able to maintain a satisfactory height of the frame-hour. When I say that I think that's the way it is, it's because I have some years of experience, among other things. As the principal, and I've seen how this is connected. It is important that schools can look at these hours as a whole, and can use them for the benefit of individual students and for the school as a whole. Finally, $10 billion is a lot of money. The quantity is there, but the quality can undoubtedly be a little bit better in many places. That is why I agree with those who believe that this area should be subject to continuous assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e820	Does the Council of State have anything to say to its defense at last?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e823	I feel no need to defend myself, but I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it is an important debate and a difficult debate, which we will certainly come back to. I think, among other things, The representative from the Central Party here gave a good description of how it can work well, but also how it can work badly if you don't get to the important interaction locally. I think we are facing quite major challenges. Surveys show that the challenges in Norway are actually greater than in many other countries, because the gap between so-called strong and weak pupils in each classroom is statistically large, so that the challenges for each teacher are great. I think, for the sake of discussion, we might have to distinguish a little bit between what's very debated today: students with so-called behavioral problems -- it was warned against using that expression because life had only flocked a little bit more, but I guess it's the school that's flocked it to some of these students -- and other students who have disabilities of different kinds. There might be a little bit of different problems we're facing. I think at least there are interesting points from the research we've been given, and as I mentioned in my post, that in the Norwegian unit school we've been little liberal and had low tolerance for individual variations. I think that's an important observation, that we're more concerned with problems than with potential and mastering capabilities, and maybe we've also been afraid of differentiation. I think this is important to address, because it's not all differentiation that means stigmatisation. The representative of Reikvam has now listed a Document No. Eight proposals that are about helping a little bit more for students who feel that the school is going to be well theorized. There are other students who need more to reach for. We know that there are many alternative offers out in School-Norway today that are not so well-known, which do not contribute to any form of stigmatisation, but where both students, teachers and parents are actually very satisfied. It may well be that the demands of the school and adult society on behavior have also been too weak, and that this turns out after a few years. I think, as I said, this is a debate we're coming back to. I notice that there is a great deal of interest in this also among parents and school-interested people at all. So a couple more remarks are a couple of other things. The representative Reikvam raised questions about hours etc. and the impact this had on special education. Without considering the claims made by several people here about the evolution of hours, etc., I would just like to say that I support the representative, Mr. Requam, in that there may be incentives in the system that we have not intended to introduce, which leads to a different behaviour, so to speak, than what we had thought, and leads to a lower use of resources and rational solutions. I believe that it is well worth going into and studying more closely. Such system errors are not of interest. And then finally, basic reading and writing training will have a strengthened place in the new teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e840	Then we finished dealing with case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-18.ana.ud1407e851	There is no record.
