ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e187	Honourable co-representatives! The former deposit representatives Oddan Pettersen and Magnar Sætre have died. It was with deep sorrow that we received the notice that the former staging representative and state councilman Oddan Pettersen is dead, only 65 years old. Unfortunately, a marked politician and a significant representative of the labour movement have gone missing. Oddan Pettersen was born in Hadsel, Northland, in 1937, and she moved the page to Berlevåg. She graduated as a teacher at Tromsø Public School of Teachers and as a teacher at Berlevåg School from 1958 to 1968, before she became a school principal. Eddan Pettersen was actively involved in local politics in Berlevåg, and she was rapporteur from 1975 to 1977. In 1977 she took steps into national policy and was elected to represent Finland. She was elected to Stortinget for four periods and went out in 1993. Mr Oddan Pettersen made a great effort, both as chairman of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee, as chairman of the Transport Committee and as a member of the Maritime and Fisheries Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. Here in Stortinget, Oddan Pettersen was a highly respected and reflective politician. She was Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party's Group from 1986 to 1989 and a member of the Women's Secretariat of the Workers' Party from 1983 to 1987. Mr Oddan Pettersen was first appointed Minister of Consumer and Administrative Affairs in April 1989. On 3 November 1990 she became the first female fisheries minister in Gro Harlem Brundtland's government. As a fisheries minister, she came up in the middle of the cod crisis, which required tough measures to rebuild cod stocks. She had to make contentious decisions that have subsequently proved to be very sensible, and she will be remembered as a courageous and forward-looking fisheries minister. Mr. Oddan Pettersen was very social and enjoyed a good time with people. She had a good temper, and not least she was shy and thoughtful in association with her fellow men. She was known for her fresh lines and her good sense of humor, and she had friends in all the party groups here at Stortinget. She found out the problems she was getting, and solved them in a good way. When she ended at Stortinget, she was constantly asked, as a formerly marked and well-known councillor and politician, whether she did not go back to politics. Her way of answering is characteristic of the terrestrial human being she was always: I don't long for anything that has been, it's quite wasted. I liked it as a government council, and I like the work I have today. In 1993 Oddan Pettersen took up his duties as head of the Barents Secretariat of the Churches. Here she was involved in building up the important cooperation in the Barents region. The purpose of Barents' cooperation is inter alia: ensuring stability, cooperation and progress in the area. She was a very important driver in this work and had a wide contact network across borders in the north. Mr Oddan Pettersen was also a member of the Stortingen Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Control Committee from 1996 until her death. With a broad political background and a good knowledge of constitutional practices and state practices, she was a very important contributor to the work of the sample. We are many who mourn the loss of Oddan Pettersen, both as a friend and a politician. She was a raw, social and warm person. As a politician, she was principled, and she did not suggest easy solutions. There are very many who, not only in grief and vexation, but also with good memories, will think back on pleasant association and cooperation with Oddan Pettersen. It was with deep sorrow that we received the notice that former P.A. Magnar Setre died on 5 December, just 62 years old. Magnar Sétre was a trained typographer, and he came early into local politics in Haugesund, where he had a number of trusts both politically and professionally. He was in charge of the Haugesund Labour Party from 1974 to 1985 and was head of the Haugesund Labour Party from 1972 to 1974 and from 1985 to 1987. He was a member of the Haugesund City Council from 1971 to 1975, and he was a representative of the Rogaland Workers' Party in the county from 1979 to 1989. Here he marked himself mostly with a very strong commitment in the health and social sector, and Magnar Setter's work for the psychiatry gave great respect and will be remembered in retrospect. In the period 1985 to 1989, he met as an alternate at the Stortinget for Rogaland before becoming a permanent meeting representative from 1989 to 1997. For the first four years as a permanent representative of the Stortinget, Magnar Setre was appointed to the Consumer and Administrative Committee. Here he will be remembered first of all for ensuring that the Partnership Act came into place, and through this case Magnar Settre again showed that he was an unreasoning politician who never gave up the fight for everyone to have equal rights in our society. In his final period at Stortinget he had his function in the Committee on Transport, and here he was very committed to matters that were important both for Rogaland and for the nation. The typographical profession also led to Magnar Sétre getting a number of trusts in the trade movement, among other things. as director of the Haugesund Graphic Association and club chairman in Haugesunds Avis. As a working party politician, he was firmly anchored in the trade movement and in professional-political cooperation. Magnar Sætre was a warm man and a good friend for his colleagues at Stortinget. He was never afraid to praise colleagues who made a good effort, and he was outspoken with attention and encouraging words. The Labour Party has lost a faithful and committed member and a long-term employee, and we in the Workers' Group will miss him deeply. We will miss his commitment and work, and we will miss Magnar Setre as the good friend and colleague he was. We remember Oddan Pettersen and Magnar Sétre with deep respect and gratitude and brighten the peace of their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e248	The representative, André Kukkestad, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative of Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e256	On behalf of Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to propose to go through and establish levels of fire safety higher than today, differentiating between areas where the risk of loss of life and cultural memories is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e261	The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e264	On behalf of May Hansen and myself, I would like to propose measures to stimulate Norwegian municipalities to establish their own contact person/counterperson for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e269	The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e272	On behalf of Odd Roger Enoksen, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, Inge Ryan and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the introduction of two-price electricity systems through a differentiated electricity charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e278	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e281	On behalf of the representative André Kijkestad and myself, I would like to make two proposals, the first on changes to the Criminal Procedures Act in order to give extended access to the use of DNA evidence in criminal matters, and the second on extending access to the use of simplified submissions as a criminal response.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e286	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e304	Since this is to deal with the ageing of the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs, I would like to draw the Stortinget's attention to the fact that, despite the fact that there are strong increases in this proposition in relation to government receipts, the accounts for the year will show a further overrun in relation to the budget of 44 million. kr. This is due to the fact that the transport of rejected asylum seekers, first and foremost, does not go fast enough. This is mainly due to the length of time it takes to provide evidence of identity. The country from which they came will not accept them without having valid return documents. So that process is now overstepping the budget by 44 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e314	I find it necessary to point out from the Committee's page that there is an alarming way in which the size is now being informed of an overrun. We take note of that, but we expect that information to flow to the Storting in a different and more ordinary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e321	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1484]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e337	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1486]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e354	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4, 5 and 6 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e394	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to five minutes for each group and five minutes for the Councils. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e401	As spokesman for case No. 5 I'm going to have a couple of comments on that. This setting applies to the budgetary implications associated with the restructuring of the State involvement in the petroleum industry, known as the ‘SEE’, and other proposals for changes to its budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. This setting also refers to the changes in the ownership structure of the Norwegian gas transport system from 1 January 2003. The majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, have no comments on the proposals for changes in the vote. The majority of the Committee has noted that the establishment of the Gasled stakeholder leads to the restructuring of the ownership of the gas transport system, but there will be no specific changes in the income of the owners. The minority of the Committee, the members of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, show among others. to the party's resistance to the privatisation of Statoil and the restructuring of the State involvement in the petroleum industry. These members, however, welcome the fact that there has been increased supervision of the petroleum industry, as expressed in the Oil Directorate's budget. These members are asking for this item to also be strengthened in the context of the revised national budget in spring 2003. Otherwise, I refer to the minority's comments on page 3 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e416	Let me first say something about national salmon fjords. It is in itself a very remarkable procedure The situation here has been exposed. First, the government presents a message of error that will protect the interests of the wild species and ensure that international obligations are also taken care of in relation to the wild species. At the same time, there is a rumour that the Ministry of Fisheries will present the award of new salmon concessions. It will be seen in the Committee as a problem in relation to the fact that it actually escapes from 600,000 farmed salmon per year, if a new concession is awarded in relation to the wild game notification to be addressed by the Stortinge. This will appear in the committee as a problem issue, but not as a matter of its own – it is quite correct. The Committee will then be informed by the government that the granting of salmon concessions has been withdrawn, and that it will be expected – as it also says in the paper – until the error notification has been processed. Then it's amazing in a question hour here that above the table these concessions are still distributed by the Minister of Fisheries, clearly after conversation with the Progress Party. So the system that the bulk of the population had originally set up, was simply to take things in the right order and do it the way the wild-axis has gone, overrun in a question time. This would be a great pity for SV. And then it's amazing in the next round that one in the budget negotiations realizes that one needs posts to balance the budget with, and then add one to $240 million. NOK in 50 new salmon concessions. In other words, the situation is completely out of control in relation to what Stortinget was supposed to be dealing with, the error message and our international obligations in relation to the error rate. This happens over a very short period of time – while the Government has submitted a message to protect the error rate, this is clearly happening because some in the Government have more to say than others. This is a situation that SV deeply regrets, but we just have to realize that there is a multiple that is in agreement with this, and that the Government is getting multiples by means of the Progress Party to do the hostile operation that one is doing here. But there's one more point: when you come up with these new 50 concessions because of a need for money, it turns out that the industry itself doesn't want them, because there's too many concessions, there's not a market for new concessions. So one hasn't really examined the need for this before one goes to the drastic step of assigning more. This is, in my opinion, a procedure that does not hang on to a handle, or a procedure ‘of the very rare’, as SV writes in his remark. Our proposal is that one should withdraw the 40 concessions. And then we want to get back to the 50 that the government has now allocated, and that nobody wants. In the case of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and changes in ownership structure, some of the main points of the SV's approach to the gas market directives were precisely to maintain national control, just to ensure that the large values in the North Sea remain under national control. The majority of cases via the EEA Agreement and EU directives ensure that much of our basic interest income is transferred from Norway to the EU system through this action. With its background and background in the consequences of the privatisation of Statoil, SV will vote against the setting in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e431	The President wants to make sure that Hallgeir H. Langeland made proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e434	I made suggestions on salmon concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e439	Hallgeir H. Langeland has then taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e442	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on National Salmon Waters and Salmon fjords, I feel the need to say a few words after the speech by the Vice-President of the Committee. There has been full agreement in the Committee on the progress I have made in the treatment of national salmon rivers and fjords, that we are going to deal with this matter in this Chamber in February. There can be no doubt about it. Then the vice-chairman of the committee refers from committee meetings. I think that's a little strange, because these meetings are closed, and that the Vice-Chair of the Committee refers from closed meetings, I think it's unfortunate. When we made the progress plan that we were making for national salmon watercourses, everyone understood that there were concessions waiting for the Ministry of Fisheries, and those who disagree that these concessions have been awarded should rather take inward that they have not given such signals when we made the progress plan that we did for that matter. Now it is that the award of salmon concessions is not a matter for the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and we therefore have no opportunity to influence it. We can come with wishes, and for the Progress Party, there has never been any desire to hold back the award of these concessions. We take the industry seriously and will give the industry the predictability that is possible. The fact that the concessions are awarded as they are, we greatly appreciate it, because it shows that the Government takes the industry seriously, which we are pleased about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e451	President! Can I just clear up an open misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e458	The President believes that the representative can sign up on the list of speakers. The president thinks it's more tidy, otherwise this can quickly float out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e461	I won't get the word again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e467	The representative may draw on a three-minute insert. The President thinks we should be a little restrictive in clarifying obvious misunderstandings – there are many who want to go home to Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e470	I understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e475	I'm not going to help anyone get home for Christmas, but I want to say that I've noticed the views of the minority in the Energy and Environment Committee in Innst. S. No Eighty-one has. Let me now state that both the Ministry of Fisheries and the Government take the situation of the wild game very seriously, but in relation to the matter we are discussing today, I have also taken inwards that the bulk of the population has clearly indicated that it does not want to ban salmon farming on the premises that we offer 40 concessions added, nor do the premises conflict with the proposed salmon fjords of the Government. Nor does the representative Langeland have coverage to claim that what we do with the award of concessions is environmentally hostile. It is also worth noting, as Stortinget is well known, that the allocation of the salmon concessions was announced already in Ot.prp. No 65 for 2000-2001, where it appears: ‘However, the Ministry considers that parts of the future crop may be taken in the form of granting new concessions for the production of salmon and trout edible fish. This will provide opportunities for re-establishment and development in coastal areas. In 2001, the Ministry of Fisheries will award new concessions for the production of edible fish from salmon and trout. The Ministry sees that new concessions will be published on a regular basis in the years ahead.» It documents that it should not come as a surprise to anyone with these 40s, and that the Government is adding up to the future award of concessions. Let me also remind you that the majority of the Business Committee in the last growing-up period joined this in the Inst. O. No 123 for 2000-2001, where it is expressed: ‘The majority argue that 35 concessions should be awarded in the first round, but with the possibility for the Ministry to increase the number to 40 if they find it defenceworthy.’ Consequently, the 40 new concessions are awarded in accordance with the stated will of the Storting. It was intended to award the concessions last autumn. The process was delayed, including because the Government would align the location of concessions with our proposals for national salmon fjords. The new allocation regulation was laid down on 21 June of this year and the concessions announced on 8 July with the deadline for application of 25 September. In this case, it has been important for me to take into account several aspects: first, that the concession round was already delayed by a year, second, the Stortinget's consideration of the Government's proposal for national salmon fjords, and last but not least, the Stortinget's expressed desire to grant new concessions. In this balance for different reasons, I would like to remind you that it was not just representatives of the Energy and Environment Committee who contacted the Ministry after the concession round was started. For the first time in 14 years ordinary concessions were to be granted, and there were many who had waited a long time. As it turned out that the majority of the population had different wishes than the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment to which Langeland refers, I chose to follow the former so that the allocation could be made without further delay. To the knowledge of Storting, I can inform you that the allocation is now in the final phase. So far, 23 of the concessions have been paid for, in line with what the Storting had promised. Two have been allocated free of charge to Musken in Nordland, also in accordance with Stortinget’s leadership, and a total of 12 new commitments have been sent out. For two of the concessions, there is only one applicant, none of whom has paid, so that the maximum number of concessions awarded this year, ends at 38, of the 40.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e498	I think it suggests a little arrogant attitude when the Council of State goes up and says that no one should be surprised at the award of these salmon concessions. In fact, there was some communication between the state councils, the committee and the committee leader in this case. I think there is every reason to be surprised at the procedure that has been, and I therefore fully agree with the criticism that came from SV's representative Langeland. The council said that one should not be surprised that salmon concessions were granted, and that the government had made a proposal in relation to salmon fjords that would not conflict with these concessions. It could be. But in fact, when there is a case of salmon fjords in the Stortinget, it is the Stortinget to determine where the salmon fjords should be. Then one cannot base the Government's proposal. But I understand very well that the government has again been pressured by the Progress Party in this matter, and has chosen a partner who ultimately is not interested in having protection, as the majority of people hopefully come to the conclusion. It's sad, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e505	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e508	Just some quick comments on the matter and the posts that have been. Let me first say that I agree with what Øyvind Korsberg pointed out, namely that you use the setting to refer from what is said in a committee meeting. I hope for the sake of further consideration of matters in the committee that we do not experience it again. I don't think it's too soon. In the case of the situation description itself or the procedure description that emerges from the setting, and which also the Working Party and SV are now lifting up again, there is no reason in itself to contradict it. It is a correct description of how the Committee had initially planned to organise its work on these two issues. That's absolutely correct. What has happened, however, is that the government parties on their side, and it should not surprise anyone, have as their starting point to fight through the Storting what is the government's arrangement. This means, in practice, that, of course, government parties have never had any intention of diverging this or extending it to the areas to which the concessions would be subject. But what was unclear at the time was how the bulk of the population would deal with this. Thus, the Storting had some form of freedom of action in relation to the concessions, which I now understand is that the minority, represented by SV and the Workers' Party, feel that they are excluded. At the same time, the Progress Party has highlighted its position and its position on how far they are willing to go, and on the basis of it, there is actually a majority in place not to go further in the salmon fjord case than the Government proposes. And with that in mind, the Minister for Fisheries – in his view – will then have back coverage in order to be able to award these concessions. It is not, as Mr Korsberg also says, the responsibility of the Committee on Energy and the Environment to intervene in the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries. It's also important to clarify. At the same time, as chairman of the Committee, I feel a strong need to say that this led to an inexhaustible examination in the Committee. I think we just have to admit that this is how it happened. But there should be no surprise to anyone that when there is an expressed majority for something in the Storting, as both the government parties and the Progress Party have clarified, the Government will of course have full freedom to act in relation to this established majority. I believe, however, that we should bear in mind that there is created unnecessary uncertainty in the examination in the committee, and in this way we record the objections raised by the minority. And I think, as committee leader, it would be natural to join in on the procedural aspects of the committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e521	Let me first take the obvious misunderstanding with regard to the Progress Party said about internal matters from the Committee. In fact, this is described and described in the setting. That was the point. In addition, it is also the case that, for example: in a newspaper like the Fisherman was also a very frustrated for a while, because one didn't quite know what the Storting meant. One day it was like that, and another day it was like that. So I thought it was real of the committee leader to say that yes, it was messy, because there was another plurality in the treatment. There's one of the main points here. So the main point is that the error message is from the Government. Some of us at Stortinget want to influence her towards the setting of the Rieber-Mohn selection, which for many years had asked for it and it would be done to take care of the wild. The Government has now taken this option from the Workers' Party, SV and the twelve environmental organisations that want to influence the error messages in the right direction. That possibility has the alliance between the Government and the Advance Party taking away from us. It is regrettable, as it is clear that it is also good for interests outside this house to know whether one can influence the matters. When twelve environmental organisations want to improve the government's policy, choose Government through a collaboration in Stortinget to stop listening to these organisations. I think they will take note of that – and I am sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e530	It may be inappropriate to intervene in something more and more similar to a preliminary meeting of the Energy and Environment Committee before giving up its position. But I still allow myself to ask for the word. This is actually about a case that was decided, in the case of the 40 salmon concessions, by the Stortinget more than a year and a half ago, when the Stortinget gave a marshaller to implement a decision, versus a case that was not adopted by the Norwegian Storing. This matter is then completely reversed when the representative of Klungland allows himself to say that the Minister for Fisheries shows an arrogant attitude. What else would he do, other than implement the decision of the Greatness? Something else would be completely unreasonable. The chairperson of the Committee, Brother Yngve Rahm, has presented the process within the Committee in a clear manner. But I think it's amazing when the Workers' Party every day that goes, allows itself to stand on the barricades and demand measures for activity along the Norwegian coast at a time when you are struggling enormously, where the bankruptcy is everyday, and then you do what you can to prevent the implementation of a decision that is taken a year and a half ago, and which it will take at least two to three years before we can see the implementation of, with production based on the location and the concessions that are awarded, to carry out the work along the Norwegian coast. So this is going to be completely flipped on your head.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e539	There is every reason to react quite strongly to the Right's behaviour in this matter. It is not the case that the working party, nor the SV, opposes that there should be farming concessions. The fact is, the government is now offering something that the coast doesn't want. We've been told that the 50 concessions that are now to be awarded are too much. The government cannot get out of this matter in a good way, with what has been said to the committee. There's something said about the procedure, and then you've turned all the way around, when you saw that there was a majority in relation to something else. I sat yesterday watching the TV program "Holmgang". Everyone agreed to look at the pension conditions of the depositors. But that doesn't mean that the pension board can change the pension rules today because there is a majority in the Biggest. This is going to be exactly the same thing that the Minister for Fisheries did in the Question Time in relation to salmon concessions. He assumes that it's a large number, so there's no decision on this. This is going to be completely wrong in relation to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e546	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four, five, six. [[Fotation, see page 1487]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e561	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e572	The main objective of the new food surveillance will be to ensure good food security for Norwegian consumers. The aim of the new organisation is to create a forward-looking and efficient management that is able to meet the challenges of food. The main approach is to focus more on the whole chain perspective and to establish a holistic management from soil/fjord to table. At the same time, one should contribute to increasing the value creation and competitiveness of Norwegian food. The reform shall also contribute to the creation of better and more cost-effective food surveillance. On a principle basis, I would recommend that all members of the Government Party vote against any proposal to instruct the Government to reverse localisation decisions or regionalisation decisions. In other words, I urge the government party to vote against all minority proposals and Roma proposals. Based on a well-established practice, it is the government's responsibility to decide on the location of the departments' sub-departments. I have noticed that in a particular comment in the setting, the Labour Party agrees with the principle that the Storting should not normally be subject to decisions in this type of case. I can't see that there's any good reason for a person to deviate from this principle in this case. The location of the Regional Offices of the Food Authority was decided by the Government in July 2002, and the regional division was formally decided by the King of the State Council on 16 August 2002. It is very unfortunate that special bindings are created to a particular structure for the underlying level. Here the exercise of power needs some flexibility. The holding of the big business and the big business in this matter may help to ensure that the decision-making processes for the organisation of substantiating etats can become unnecessarily heavy and slow in the future, and it may work mobilising all kinds of press groups to engage in the corresponding issues in the future. The majority also need to know that the Government has not provided any decision-making basis for decision-making on the regionalisation or location of regional offices. Therefore, any decisions on the instruction of the Government in these matters will be based on an uncertain and random decision-making basis, largely made by those who are displeased with the Government's weighing, and to a lesser extent by those who are involved in the Government. I record that the leader of the Labour Party, Jens Stoltenberg, and the Nestleir, Hill-Marta Solberg, stated, then the decision was made by the Government, that they supported this, and that they were happy for it. I also note that they must have suffered defeat in their group, as several of the proposals that lead to reconciliation today break with such a stop. We in the Christian People's Party are well pleased that the regional office of Troms and Finnmark is located in Kautokeino, and that the reorganization of the Food and Fisheries Directorate will lead to a clear increase in the number of state jobs in Finnmark. We would also stress the importance of the fact that a state oversight of regional and national tasks is located in a pronounced Sami municipality such as Kautokeino, and I would also like to pay tribute to SV for constructive cooperation on this issue. Also after the reorganization, a highly professional local food agency will be maintained in Harstad. In the setting we agree with SV on a note that we will also work to ensure that the professionally strong laboratory environment in Harstad is maintained. We in the Christian People's Party are well pleased that the vast majority of regional food agencies are located outside the major regional capitals and in cities such as Ås, Bø in Telemark, Sandnes, Steinkjer and Sortland. This shows the Government's willingness in practice to locate operations outside the big cities. There is a significant trend change, which the Government will follow up on the corresponding issues in the future. It is time that the districts also get their share of such jobs. The new integrated Food Safety Authority, established after the decision today, is a co-ordinated and pre-determined enclosure for good animal treatment, and will lead to a good starting point for good food safety in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e600	On 2 February 1990, the Economic and Social Committee was appointed by a Royal Resolution. On 27 June 1996 they gave their opinion to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy. The result was NOU 1996:10 Effective food safety One law – one department – one state supervision. It's interesting reading, and we can see today that not everything was what the sample proposed – some have changed, but a lot has become as they suggested. But one thing we all agree on: this is an important reorganization, and it's a proper reorganization. An effective and transparent food inspection and a food law are mainly for all of us. Then it is that we do not agree on everything, and I want to justify why the Workers' Party could not support all the proposals made by the Government in St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 8 on food management and Appendix No. 11, concerning the Directorate of Fisheries. In the context of the revised national budget in the spring of 2002, proposals were also examined regarding the new food monitoring system. Then we had the big debate if we were to have one or two supervision. It had been working on the matter both in the Stoltenberg administration and in the Bondevik II administration. Both governments had concluded with two oversights, one for seafood and one for land-based food. When the matter came to Stortinget, we were exposed to intense lobbying, and the majority in Stortinget turned around, including the government parties. It was decided that we should have one oversight. This happened in June 2002. During the summer, the Government of the Ministry of Agriculture had already made the case clear, and on 16 August 2002, a royal resolution was presented, which both adopted the regional breakdown and later, as a result, the location of the regional offices. So this happened only two months after a decision on one supervision in Stortinget. In the meantime, it had also been decided that drinking water management should be included in the new food supervision, as well as the supervision of seafood. Either the government was well prepared that there could be a decision on an oversight, or it has worked at record speed. At school, I had a teacher who always said ‘fast works are cargo works’. I think this is the case in parts of the work on the new food inspection. At the hearings held by the Committee and at other meetings, criticisms of the proceedings and non-participation of interested parties have been raised. Then turn to the individual suggestions that we have in the vote. On the part of the Labour Party, we agree on everything about the central link, and mainly about the regional link. But when we get to the locomotive, we're more sceptical. This is the operational part of supervision, the part to be met by farmers, farmers, fishermen, food producers, shops, restaurants and the public. They are the ones who are going to be the face of the new Food Authority outside. In addition, the new food surveillance body shall not only supervise food but also supervise animal health and our animals in that country. Animal health is far more than food supervision. There is also supervision of live animals, both those to be fed and sports and pet animals, to mention some of the animals for which they are to be responsible. We therefore ask the question – and we answer it ourselves: we believe it is suggested for a few local offices. In the proposition on page 13, the government’s strategies for the work on the new food monitoring system are set out. These include: that it must be: ‘a management and supervision based on the principle that the operators themselves are primarily responsible for ensuring that consumers receive safe food. This implies a high focus on the internal control principle in the supervisory approach. However, traditional supervisory methods, such as control inspections and sampling of control samples, must also be part of the oversight tasks in the future». We put a big question mark on the principle of internal control after the events of the last weeks, both in the trade in goods and in the restaurant industry. These are industries where competition is sharp and profitability is sometimes low. It seems that it is tempting to save money by operating with a little trickery. We believe that one in the future must also be prepared to have an effective control inspection device. We believe that there is a basis for expanding the number of offices due to the fact that seafood is now part of the new food control. As I said earlier in my article, we believe that the work on organisational structure after the review of the revised national budget in ours has gone so fast that it could not have made a good enough assessment of the need after the merger. The Committee has underlined in its opinion the importance of local offices and that many good professional justifications have been provided for the location of offices. These we support. In addition, we are concerned that the already established inter-municipal environments should be protected where appropriate. Several places are already some of the environments co-located, and we see no reason why these should be dissolved or moved where they work. In the course of our work on the proposal, we have received more signals from the environment, and the Committee is unanimous in this. So to the question that has got the most media attention – unfortunately – that the case-rapporteur too, oddly enough, spent a lot of time on. It concerns the location of regional offices. The Labour Party has chosen this time to do something that we normally never do, and that it has naturally also been a discussion of intimateness with us, and that is to involve ourselves in what is the Government's task, namely the location of offices at the level of establishment and supervision. However, we believe that there was a basis in this case to interfere with the location of one office, that is for Troms and Finnmark. It is a very good office in Harstad, and it would be fully capable of carrying out most of the tasks a regional office has to perform. In addition, Harstad has lost many government jobs in recent years, and we do not believe that they need to lose more now. That is why this time we choose to interfere in one location, and we suggest that the region office of Troms and Finnmark be added to Harstad. Since we have chosen to deal with Appendix No. 11 in this debate, namely the conversion in the Directorate for Fisheries, I would like briefly to say a few words about this. The reorganisation and new structure of the Directorate-General for Fisheries is a consequence of the introduction of seafood into the new food surveillance system, which was adopted in June this year. In the event of such reorganisations, some rules of the game are to be followed, including: an impact assessment of such reorganisation should be carried out. In addition, employees have requirements for proper communication and information during such reorganisations. We also think it is strange to put down the Fisheries Directorate's office in the state that is most dependent on fishing, namely Finnmark. We know that fisheries face major challenges in the years to come, including: in relation to the need for conversion and development. Fisheries management should be present, close to users and not least actively contribute to the promotion of national objectives for the fishing industry. We have therefore chosen not to support the proposed changes in the Fisheries Directorate's organisation and will propose to maintain offices in Trondheim and Vadsø. I take this up with me the proposals of the Workers' Party either stand alone or have relations with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e637	Grethe Fossli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e640	The establishment of a joint food surveillance body for land-based and sea-based food production is an important and crucial step in ensuring the safety of good quality food for citizens. The debate on both national and international food is increasingly marked by a debate on value. Consumers seem to be increasingly interested in how food is produced, processed and traded. Such considerations must be at the bottom of the policy formulation process. The increasing internationalisation of society, increased travel activities and changes due to Norway’s association with the EU and the WTO have created professional and administrative challenges in the field of food. The government's intention to reorganise food management is to create a forward-looking and efficient management capable of meeting the new challenges. The main objective is to maintain good food safety for Norwegian consumers. The main approach is to put increased emphasis on the whole chain, in short to establish a comprehensive management from soil and fjord to table – a food management that helps to promote a fair supply and quality of food, and which is professional and predictable. It will in turn contribute to increased value creation and improved competitiveness of Norwegian food. The reform will also help to create better and more cost-effective food surveillance, and is thus an important contribution to the comprehensive work of modernising, simplifying and streamlining the public sector. Both the legislation and the organisation of supervision are fragmented today. Four laws and related regulations regulate the final products. In addition, eight regulatory laws regulate primary production and the response area. The lack of overall governance has made the system vulnerable to dealing with serious adverse events where efforts are required in a broader field along the food chain. It is very important to channel most supervisory resources into those areas of food production where adverse events have the greatest impact on people’s health or on other vital societal interests. Such risk-based behaviour has so far been limited. The new organisation will change that. In the new food surveillance, the main task of the regional teams is to coordinate supervisory activities and to be responsible for results. It shall provide professional, administrative and administrative support to the local level. The Government proposes that regional offices under central management should also be responsible for carrying out national tasks. In this way, the professional communities spoken about by Grethe Fossli in their contributions can be assigned national tasks. We welcome the location of the Regional Offices of the Food Authority and the Directorate of Fisheries, which was decided by the Government in July. It has always been the government's responsibility to make decisions on the location of the departments' underlying offices. Therefore, on a principle basis, government parties will vote against any proposal to instruct the Government to convert location decisions. Decision-making processes in the organisation of underlying agencies would be unnecessarily heavy and slow if the Stortinge had to establish a practice in which we intervene in these kinds of cases. I have noticed that parts of the Committee also consider that this principle should be waived in the issue of the number of regions in the Directorate for Fisheries. The proposition presented is based on the principle that it is the Government, not the Storting, which determines the regional breakdown of the levels. Therefore, the Government has not presented or discussed the arguments for regionalisation in the proposition. Any decision to instruct the Government will therefore be based on an uncertain and random decision-making basis. There is reason to recall what the Labour Party leader Jens Stoltenberg said to the magazine Vesterålen on 16 August: ‘This is the matter of the Government, not of the Great.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e671	The issue of the future organisation of food management has previously been presented to Stortinget. The main conclusions as well as a summary and evaluation of the recordings were then presented to the Stortinget through St.prp. No 63 for 2001-2002 on the revised national budget for 2002. The assessment of the whole case can be found in Innst. S. No 255 for 2001-2002. The majority, consisting of government parties and the Advance Party, agreed to a model of overall supervision for land-based and sea-based food production. This is due, inter alia, to: in that the vast majority of the hearing bodies were in favour of a model of overall supervision. It also took into account the views of the Hearing Officers that industry should be able to experience supervision as effective and coordinated. Some companies experience that today’s system can lead to double supervision. The majority also showed that a major and significant reform is being undertaken, and the importance of keeping a good track of the implementation of the entire programme in order to ensure that the reform is as successful as possible. It is no less than improving the Norwegian food safety and quality system in order to protect Norwegian consumers in parallel with similar improvements in Europe. The majority also agreed that the laboratories should be released. The State should be responsible here for contributing to the establishment of equivalent conditions of competition for operators in the laboratory market. The Progress Party has always had the impression that there is a good solution for the country with one food surveillance that receives three levels of government, and that the central link is located in Oslo. It means one joint food surveillance body for sea-based and land-based food production. The State Food Authority, the State Agricultural Authority and the State Animal Health Authority, as well as the Fisheries Directorate’s supervision of seafood and the Food Authority, whose tasks are currently carried out by the local and inter-municipal food authorities, will be coordinated in a new state supervision. The main purpose of this is to ensure safer food, good plant and animal health and good animal protection. These tasks include public responsibilities relating to health, quality and animal welfare throughout the production chain from fjord to table or from land to table. As far as the central stage is concerned, the Government has determined that the head office shall have a crew of between 100 and 120 year-olds. We would like to stress that this has been done despite the fact that a separate investigation on the subject has concluded that the technical and administrative tasks of the head office will require 180 years' work. The central government’s leadership and this investigation were carried out before the responsibility for seafood and drinking water management was assigned to the new food oversight. The Party agrees that the size of the central level should be limited, but in such a way as to ensure the necessary strength, capacity and competence to carry out the strategic management of the department, coordination of risk management, coordination of regulatory developments, coordination of supervisory work at national level and coordination of international work where there is a need to influence legislative developments. The Government also proposes that the regional level, under the direction of the central level, be given responsibility for significant operational parts of national tasks. This is a challenge in relation to the objective of a strong, competent and powerful central link. It is therefore necessary to require that the delegation of tasks of a national nature can only occur when they occur as a result of internal priorities and under the direction of the central level. Under these assumptions, the objective of a lean central link could be achieved without undermining the central link’s quality objectives. The Government has stated that it wishes to ensure that existing environments of competence are taken into account when selecting a location. It has been desirable to locate regional offices in places where one can recruit and retain key personnel, while at the same time wanting to strengthen existing professional and administrative skills in the regions. The Progress Party considers that the conditions are reasonably met in terms of the location of the Regional Office of Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland in Bergen, for the Rogaland and Agder counties in Sandnes, for Hedmark and Uppland in Ringsaker, for Oslo, Akershus and Østfold to Ås, and for Nordland to Sortland. But we disagree with the government's location of regional offices in Kautokeino, Steinkjer and Bø in Telemark because these choices seem to be influenced by reasons other than ensuring powerful and cost-effective supervision. These are sites which are not easily accessible by communication and which do not currently have an established environment. Furthermore, the establishment of new regional offices may be unnecessarily costly. The Progress Party has therefore put forward a proposal to place the regional office of Troms and Finnmark in Harstad, the regional office of Nord-Trøndelag, Sør-Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal in Trondheim, and to place the regional office of Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud in Drammen. In the case of the local units, we support the government's view. The further breakdown of the local units and the subsequent location is a task that should be resolved within the scope of the new supervision. There is also agreement on the establishment of an independent scientific committee. Risk analysis will be a key tool in the management of the Food Safety Authority and not least the clear division of responsibilities between the risk management of the Food Safety Authority and the risk assessment of the Scientific Committee. We have noticed that several hearing bodies have pointed out that the working group which has examined different aspects of the establishment of the Scientific Committee is not as clear as the division of responsibilities between the Food Authority and the Scientific Committee. We would therefore like to stress that the Government's description of the use of risk analysis and the role-sharing in this context must be used as a basis for further work on setting up the Scientific Committee, although this work is mainly based on the conclusions of the Working Party. In view of the fact that the monitoring of seafood and quality control are to be transferred to the new Food Safety Authority, the Government proposes a new structure in the Fisheries Directorate. The Progress Party agrees that the sharing of the Directorate of Fisheries is a good opportunity for the Government to strengthen the allocation of resources for the directorate’s supervisory tasks in the field of resource control and supervision. The background is that on at least two occasions, in 2001 and 2002, the Stortinget stressed the need to strengthen food management. However, the Progress Party will not support the Government's proposal for a new structure in the Fisheries Directorate. We are part of the majority who propose to maintain the regional offices of the Fisheries Directorate in Trondheim and Vadsø, so that the appropriateness and competence can be improved. In Trondheim, there is solid competence in the management of aquaculture, and it has proved very useful for the farming industry, with practical good results from this work. Furthermore, it is important that the fisheries management is present in Finland, which is the country's most fisheries dependent country. We must not forget that in the Fisheries Directorate the formal decision-making competence lies in the regional offices, not in the local offices. It is important that those who have acute competence and who have formal responsibility for the type of management they are intended to have acute competence make this work well and also for developing the environments. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e699	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e702	It is an important matter that we will decide on later today. We in SV are very happy that this matter of common food supervision in Norway is now coming back. Originally, it was added that we should have two. The matter was sent back from Stortinget with a request for one food inspection. We think that's a very good grip on getting a whole around this important work. We know that in Norway, which is an important producer of food, based on the natural resources we have, consumers will make greater and greater demands both on the quality of food and on the way we treat animals when making their choices in relation to the different products offered. That today we join together to the main device in relation to a new food management, I think is very happy and very good. So a little bit relative to the process. We are not satisfied with the way such processes are conducted. It's a little bit too much Texas, and you're pulling a little too fast in a lot of ways. We get a lot of control. There's a lot of trouble with employees and with professionals, because you don't feel like you're part of a process and get involved in forming some of the things that happen. In fact, we believe that this government, and not least future governments, needs to learn that there is a greater need to take the parties involved into account when making some of these relatively large organisational changes. I have worked in organisations where we have had to make changes, and you always get the best result when you work with those who are affected by it. If you pull too fast without knowing about it, there's a lot of noise in retrospect, and a lot of that noise we, as depositors, have now had to struggle with, and accepted, and it's a little unnecessary to do it that way. Then go to the organization of food management itself. We see that the philosophy that the government has, that you have to have a slim central link, is very right. In my opinion, for many years we have had an excessive accumulation of central power in the capital that has in a way ruled and had a great influence over what has happened in the whole country. We agree that you put the head office of Oslo, at Adamstua, and we are happy to choose to have a slim head office, and that you have the philosophy that a good part of the problems to be solved, part of the decisions to be taken, spread across the whole country. That's why we think a number of 100-120 people at the head office is right. We believe that if you had gone up in the number of people in Hedstrøm, 180 people, you would have a significant reinforcement of the head office that would have gone out over the other offices around. The main debate has been around the regional offices. We think the fact that regional offices have been put into smaller places is very positive. It is very good that you have chosen places like Bø, like Steinkjer, like Blackland, etc. It's a very reasonable idea that you can also put this kind of office outside the larger cities. However, we record that there has been a very high level of involvement in the issue of the location of the regional office in Kautokeino. We in SV were also unsure about the matter when it came. We believe it was a very surprising choice that the Regional Food Agency in Troms and Finnmark was to be located in Kautokeino, both in terms of geographical location, the possibilities of recruiting professionals and not least the fact that it is relatively far from the sea, as we know that the Norwegian Food Agency has an important task in relation to it with fish. We were therefore initially set up at a division – two regional offices in the north, one in Troms and one in Finnmark, but during the process we saw that it could be difficult to get a majority for it. We also saw that there were two very small regional offices. That's why we have chosen to follow the Government and go in for Kautokeino. We believe that when the Government clearly says that this is possible, it is scientifically sound, then it is right for us to support the Government in it. We see that there are many challenges in such an organization, but when the government councils and the peoples of the department say that this is possible, we believe it. We think it is very offensive and almost groundbreaking that one chooses to add a regional government office to such a small place, and it is not least very good for internal Finnland, which is one of the places in Norway that is struggling with population decline. I would also like to point out that I think it is exciting that you get that type of jobs in a very strong samika environment. We also think that is very positive. That is why we will be fully committed to the Government's proposals for organising regional offices – including in terms of location in Kautokeino. Then go to the local offices. Here we are somewhat more uncertain if 50–65 local offices are enough. There are very demanding conditions in this country when it comes to distances. 60 local offices work for us a little. We therefore have a proposal in hand with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, where we suggest a slightly higher number – 70–90 local offices. In the course of the New Year's work on setting up these regional offices and these local offices, I believe that the signals that have come from a majority of the committee that there is some concern about adequate local care. Should it turn out that this does not happen, I hope that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget, if necessary, or do the steps that need to be taken in the Government so that you get a local office structure that works. In spite of all the local offices that will have the executive role in relation to both enterprises and a number of other agencies, we need to have local offices that are functioning well. In fact, local offices are the most important element and have actually received relatively little attention in relation to what the regional offices have received. But, as I said, we expect that if you see that there is not enough 50–65 local offices, we hope you don't put any performance into this, but make adjustments along the way. Finally, I would like to say a little bit in relation to the Harstad environment. There is no question at least where the SV's fraction in the Business Committee has had such a great commitment as that of Harstad, by moving some of the tasks that you saw as belonging to the office in Harstad, to Kautokeino. We are therefore very pleased that we have received the government parties on a note saying that we should take special care of the Harstad environment. It is the only place specifically mentioned in relation to this with local offices and laboratories. We are pleased that we have been given, because that means that part of the professional competence that is currently in Harstad – and as it is important to continue to be in Harstad – will actually remain there. If you do not have a regional office, you will get it through other types of food surveillance tasks, which are very important, and perhaps even more important for the users who are going to use these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e721	As a number of speakers have pointed out earlier, it is an important reorganization that is being adopted today. I think it's a strength for the matter that there's such a broad consensus on the main lines of setting up the new food supervision. There is broad consensus on both the work tasks and the broad framework in terms of organisation. I also believe that many of us look forward to the discussion around and the presentation of a new food law, as a framework for the further work of the Food Authority. I would like to highlight a few of the points in which the Committee has gathered on comments and which, in the opinion of the Centre Party, are very important. One is that the Committee agrees that this monitoring should work along the whole value chain, i.e. follow food from primary production and right up to the end-user. It has been important to stress that in such supervision the animal health aspect must also receive the necessary attention and supervision. It is also important that one of the majority has clearly stated that the local offices are the most central unit in the new supervision. In practice, monitoring and supervision will be carried out by local units, and that link must therefore be strong enough, but also sufficiently close to both primary production and food production. That seems to me to have been an important emphasis from an overall committee. Some of the parties, including: The centre party has underlined that we believe that the number of local units seems to be somewhat low compared to the important role that local units must play in the exercise of supervision. We recognise that it will be the responsibility of the new Food Safety Authority both to arrive and determine where the local units should be, but the range of local units should have been greater than what has been proposed by the Government. The centre batch has also been concerned with the question of the function of laboratories in relation to the new food inspection. The consequences of a release of laboratories shall now be investigated following the decision taken in the context of the revised national budget. The question of the centre party is why one could not at the same time have investigated the integration of the laboratories into the new food surveillance system, before the matter is finally discussed in the spring of 2003. This would have been necessary, because the question of viability – which has been stressed by the Government – is questionable. It would also be beneficial to have an integrated laboratory function related to the locality, if not for all sites, at least for a large part of them. We have also helped to point out that with regard to the conversion costs of any release of the laboratories, it is necessary to take extra account of those who have been employed in the local laboratories so far. They should be subject to some of the same arrangements that apply to government employees, so that the country takes extended responsibility for the employees on the laboratory side. I would also like to mention a different point of view at the Senterpartiet in relation to the charging side. This concerns the coordination of the food fees we have today. It's starting to get a little rough when it comes to the distribution of who pays for food security work. The industry is currently paying a large proportion of its work, and I believe that one should establish the principle that food security is not just a commercial responsibility but a social responsibility, and that one should contribute to coordination and a reduction of food taxes currently imposed on agriculture and the fishing industry, related to food security. So to the localization issues being discussed. I understand that the government parties want to talk about this as if it were just a government prerogative. But nothing a minority government suggests in this house, is of such a character that it cannot be changed by the Storting. This is how parliamentaryism works once, and also for this government. That is why I think it is good that today it is suggested that one on the fisheries side chooses to propose a reorganisation that does not reduce the number of regional offices as strongly as the Government has proposed. I think it is important for a boat to keep the environment that is in Vadsø and also to continue the aquaculture competence that is in the Trondheim environment. I would also like to join in the criticism that has been made about the procedure in the fisheries area. There is no doubt in this area that there has been a delay in loading. The centre party is mainly satisfied with the location of the regional offices. We think it is important that good environments are now being built and developed both in Steinkjer and in Bø. In the case of North Norway, there has been a wide-ranging discussion on these issues. The centre party believes that two regional offices in northern Norway, Troms and Finnmark would have been useful. It should have been possible – with the government's stated objective of relocating national tasks. With that I will be allowed to raise proposal No. Three, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e750	Marit Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e753	The reorganisation of the Directorate-General for Fisheries is a direct consequence of the transfer of the supervision of seafood to the new Maritime Food Authority and the reduction of the duties of the Directorate. In order to ensure optimum use of resources and good adaptation to the cooperation with the new Food Safety Authority, it is necessary to reorganise the Directorate centrally and regionally. The goal is a more efficient and user-friendly establishment. The Director of Fisheries has been in favour of a new organisation with five regions, with the boundaries of the new regions following the boundaries of the regions of the Food Authority. Less regional offices and local fishing offices will be more cost-effective, including: by pooling administrative tasks. At the same time, the planned reorganisation implies that the fisheries and aquaculture industry is constantly developing larger units. This should provide a better and more versatile service provision, through interdisciplinary competence and more stable and flexible offices with better accessibility. In addition, ICT developments reduce the importance of geographical distances. I would recommend, on a principle basis, that all members of the government parties vote against any proposal to instruct the Government to proceed with specific named regional offices. Such decisions involve a form of big business which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is unfortunate. I cannot see that there is any reason in this case to deviate from the principles of the distribution of responsibilities between government and large-scale projects. The majority has not received a decision-making basis from the Government, and the decision-making basis on which the opposition is based appears, as far as I can see, to be uncertain and random. The regional breakdown for the Fisheries Directorate adopted by the Government on 16 August this year, with five regions, followed the same regional boundaries as the Food Authority. This has been done both in terms of preparedness and in order to ensure optimal coordination of the interface between the supervisory areas of the two departments. This is particularly relevant in relation to the tasks related to farmed fish health, which will be entrusted to the Food Authority, while the management of farming will be located in the Regional Office of the Directorate of Fisheries. As the Christian People's Party sees it, the attitude of the Stortinge and the government of the Stortinge now put up in this matter can help to make the decision-making processes for the organization of underlying establishments unnecessarily heavy and slow in the future. We think of that as very negative. As mentioned above, the new structure of five regions was set up with a view to achieving larger, more powerful units and administrative savings, following a reduction in the supervisory tasks of the Directorate of Fisheries. According to the estimates of the Directorate of Fisheries, a structure of seven offices will entail an additional cost of between 5 and 8 million. kr. If the directorate is not provided with funds, this would have to be taken from the operational supervision activity, for example: the fight against resource and environmental crime, or ‘fishing fraud’. In this context, I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party proposed to grant $3 million. kr less than the Government Parties to the Directorate of Fisheries, so this is not very well connected. At least there will be no more resources for the control work. I will also allow myself to point out some aspects of the opposition that seem very contrasting to me. For Central Norway and North Norway, the opposition has chosen to maintain a larger number of regional offices, thereby preventing the efficiency and pooling of trade unions. In the south of the country, there is another logic, for here the opposition ends up in the decision to beat Rogaland with Skagerrak and Hordaland with Sogn and Fjordane. We are of course satisfied with the result in the south, but will allow us to point out that the opposition's arrangement does not work very consistently. Finally, without the input of fresh resources, localization debates will be like this zero-sum game. A decision to continue Trondheim as an administrative regional office will, for example: weaken the professional environment at the regional office in Ålesund. Instead of the region being given a strong regional office in Ålesund and a professionally good competence centre and local office in Trondheim, we can now have two small and weak regional offices. Such a conservative approach to the organisation of supervisory activities currently being addressed by the opposition does not appear to be very forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e781	Today, we are discussing the location of the regional agency for the Food Authority. When we went into the Food Authority, it was for the whole reason that we needed supervision to safeguard the interests of both those we export to and those who live here in the country. Today we have a food surveillance unit that is divided into two – one for domestic and one for export. With regard to the countries to which we are exporting, they have food surveillance, and we thought it was time to get the same thing in Norway. That's probably one of the things that I'm saying today wasn't exactly right. Because when we export 90 pst. of the goods to be subject to this supervision and they shall safeguard the interests of consumers in respect of 100 pst. Of the goods within the country, there is something that is going to be wrong when the head office of North Norway is going to be added to Kautokeino, which is as far away from the coast as it is going to come at all. It's not likely to go further from the coast than to Kautokeino. When 90 pst. of the goods produced and exported, coming from the coast, I do not understand the reason for this. Yes, I understand the reason that the Ministry of Agriculture needs reorganisation and rationalisation. I understand. I also understand that there have been tough debates in the government about exactly this oversight. I understand that the Ministry of Agriculture has been very good and was well prepared when this was adopted in Stortinget. I understand. I also understand that things have gone very fast. But this goes over the stick and the stone! Today, when we are in favour of what had to be adopted, I am not afraid to say that I am going in for Harstad instead of Kautokeino. Because I'm standing here as a speaker for what's moving on the coast, and not for what's moving inside the country. I am fully aware that we need animal health surveillance, we need food surveillance, and we need food surveillance. It must be possible, in the name of the Lord, to do so even if they are moved to the coast. But when 90 pst. Of the largest industries in the country, which are going on on the coast and in the fisheries, not enough is being cared for, as it goes without saying that something is wrong. I have to remind the Minister of Agriculture – here are both ministers – that the Ministry of Fisheries has almost come out of the debate. They are not at all involved and are debating where supervision should lie. There must be a reason for that. There's something that ministers should take away from here and take up in the Government. When Magnor Nerheim – I mention his name here from the pulpit – does not at all participate in the debate on where the supervision should be, something is wrong. There's something that's stoningal. I think the ministers of the Government must take that with me, that it has been said in this Chamber. When those who are the largest industry on the coast are not well cared for, then it is not as it should be. I agree with the proposals that come from the Workers' Party. Even if we go against the Government, I have no problem saying what I think about this matter. And at least the last word has not been said from this pulpit about where the supervision should be. I am absolutely convinced of that. We are going to have this debate again and again, and it shows that the Government cannot have control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e796	Next on the list of speakers is State Council Svein Ludvigsen. Then we'll hear if the Minister for Fisheries is on the track, as it was called before. Moreover, the President would say that not all the words used by Steinar Bastesen are regarded as parliamentary. But that's what we're getting used to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e801	The Ministry of Fisheries is absolutely on track. With reference to the fact that one of my chiefs of expedition was called for in the debate, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the views of the ministry are expressed by the Council of State and the Government. All my chiefs of mission are involved in any debate in which it is natural for them to participate. As is known, in the context of the review of the revised national budget, the Stortinget suggested that from 1 January 2004 there should only be one joint food surveillance body for seafood and agricultural food production. At that time, it was already decided that from 1 January 2003 the Nutrition Institute of the Directorate of Fisheries should be established as a separate institution as part of the process of distinguishing between food surveillance and risk assessment related to seafood. State Council Sponheim will present the Government's view of the Food Authority in the next article. I will therefore concentrate on the reorganization of the Directorate for Fisheries. The remaining activities of the Directorate of Fisheries will, after the Food Safety Authority has been separated, be resource management and control, the second being management and control, and the last, but not least, tasks related to the use of the sea and coastal zone by the marine industries. Overall, this represents a significant reduction in the portfolio of the Directorate-General for Fisheries. Of an establishment in 2001, approximately 550 annual works were 158 linked to maritime food surveillance and nutrition research. Of the external stage approx. 280 annual works in 2001 were approx. 75 related to seafood surveillance and regional laboratories. The reduction from nine to five regional offices, as proposed by the Government, is part of the overall reorganisation and renewal of the Fisheries Directorate, both centrally, regionally and locally. In the development of an establishment to serve Norway’s main industry, I am concerned with user-friendliness, efficiency and, at the same time, with the use of delegation and decentralisation as an instrument to improve quality, to improve the competence of users, and, last but not least, to minimise the use of resources for administrative tasks and to focus as much on core tasks, of which resource control is a very important area, which is also very resource-intensive. The reorganisation of the Directorate of Fisheries needs to be adapted to these challenges. Quality control work is currently an important part of the mission of the department. In order to ensure that the establishment is able to carry out the remaining tasks in the best possible way, the Government found that a reorganisation was necessary. These include: important to reduce increased costs due to loss of synergies when the same inspector no longer counts and quality controls the fish. The Ministry will delegate several tasks to the Directorate level. Several tasks are then delegated from the Directorate of Fisheries to the Regional Offices. This makes it necessary, in our opinion, to strengthen regional offices. I believe that the most effective way to do it is to establish fewer, but larger, offices. Cost savings should also be triggered by the execution of administrative tasks in fewer locations, resources that in turn may be used for supervisory tasks. That's not right, for example. The representative of Fossli seems to think that the government, with its proposal, would put down the fisheries management in Finnmark, as it was said. It will continue, with our proposal, to be such that the fisheries management is present in Båtsfjord, in Honningsvåg, in Havøysund, in Hammerfest, in Vardø, where we have a special event, and in Vadsø. It is not right that this proposal should put fisheries management down in fisheries-dependent Finnland, but we would concentrate the tasks on the most important, and that does not include administration. In several areas, the Directorate-General for Fisheries will cooperate closely with the Food Authority, in particular in the management of the aquaculture industry. I have therefore seen the need to establish a regional structure adapted to the Food Authority. It implies a geographical breakdown corresponding to the planned breakdown of the coastal regions of the future Food Authority, with the exception of the region covering the coast of Rogaland-Swedish border. Important reasons for this are the need for preparedness and the need to ensure optimal coordination of the border areas between the supervisory areas of the two departments. In selecting the location of regional offices, particular attention has been paid to strengthening regional offices which have good prospects for carrying out the remaining tasks in a larger geographical area and regional policy considerations. At the five sites that lose their regional office status, there will still be local offices or other activities of the Directorate of Fisheries. To what extent it is necessary to adjust the local office structure in relation to what was originally planned, it is premature to say something concrete about, in addition to the fact that the office in Oslo, which operates only with quality control, will be shut down and the personnel transferred to the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e836	The Minister for Fisheries refers to the importance of the Directorate for Fisheries' regional offices in the industry. Governments talked a lot about the need for reorganisation — a reorganization adapted to the needs, he said. He's just talking about rationalization, efficiency and big units. When we know how complicated this country is geographically and remotely, it's a little bit difficult just to think big and big units. It really fits better in other countries where distances are smaller. Isn't it so rational to think about availability, and think about whether the industries to be served by these offices have the proximity and competence that they feel they need? I have recorded that it has been said in the fishing industry that it is not possible to maintain, among other things. the Vadsø office and the denial of the great competence that lies in Trondheim is wrong. Is it true that the fishing industry here is wrong that what is going close to the industry is not so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e845	I am a little surprised that the representative Arnesen claims that we should renounce the competence that we have, among other things. in Vadsø and Trondheim. Then he could not have got what is the main argument from the Government to do this. It is concentrating efforts and resources on what is most important. Then it is not the size of the office that is primarily, but having a competence at the office that allows you to get a good enough administration as close to the users as possible, and that you have a competence that means that the case does not have to be forwarded to Bergen for decision. It is the Government’s aim to develop the Fisheries Directorate into a more efficient and user-friendly establishment, with rapid processing, with qualitatively good decisions close to users. And last, but not least, it should be user-friendly in terms of ICT. We need to concentrate efforts on control, regulation and resource management. It's essentially the administrative tasks we're talking about that we're going to centralize. There will be fewer administrative regional units, and resources will be released to national and regional top skills closer to users and a strengthening of the administrative environment of competence, such as us. has in Vadsø and in Trondheim. In that proposal we have made, and we have also explained it to the Stortinget, it is not right, as the representative Arnesen says, that we must build up the competence of Trondheim and Vadsø. We're going to move administrative tasks, and we're going to use the resources right at the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e852	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, was involved in the organization of the Fisheries Directorate, and she was very concerned about the economy when the Stortinget later today adopts seven regional offices instead of five. I would like to signal to the Minister for Fisheries that when you come to the revised national budget, it is possible to have a conversation with SV so that we can secure enough money to the regional offices, if that is the problem. If the problem is that there is a lack of money here to get good organisation, we are of course prepared to look at it, so that we can ensure the proper operation and professional development of all these seven offices. Then I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries in relation to the organisation and the process of organising the new regional offices. There are few times we have experienced that things have happened so quickly. After the Stortinget decided that we should have a common food management system, it was not many days before it was announced via the media that it had been decided to reorganise the Fisheries Directorate and proposed five regional offices. What's the reason you were so fast? Were there plans you had lying down, which you went and waited for to have a chance to put out in life when there came a golden opportunity? Or, what was the reason why this was taken so quickly, which has led to great frustrations among those who are affected by it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e861	As far as the economy in the Directorate and in the administration in general is concerned, from my point of view and from the Government's point of view, it is very important that we make the best use of the resources, regardless of their size, in the best possible and most efficient way. Tax payers’ money shall be used in a way that provides the best possible service and production, qualitatively and quantitatively, from any administrative unit, including from the Directorate of Fisheries. That is why my ambition is that, regardless of the size of the allocation, we should get the best possible service to fishermen and the fishing industry. I believe that we will achieve better with the reorganisation that we are now doing, at both national, regional and local levels. That's the ambition. As far as the process is concerned, it is the fact that, from our point of view, we placed the decisive emphasis on concentrating the food surveillance of one unit that takes care of both agricultural and seafood production, that the reorganisation of the Fisheries Directorate was consistent both in time and in geography. It was a time pressure, but at the same time it is important to stress that the Directorate of Fisheries has been through a long process of conversion in moving tasks from the Department to the Directorate in the process that has taken place at local level. The Directorate of Fisheries has been the subject of reorganisations for a number of years. There's been a disturbance in the building. But through the grip we are now taking, we hope to create the necessary calmness and necessary long-termity. That's what led us to coordinate these two processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e868	In the light of the lines that have now been drawn up by the Minister of Fisheries, and also in the light of the contribution made by the main spokesperson of the Government Party, Rigmor Andersen Eide, in the past, I would really like to ask a fairly brief question. Today, in the Storting, it is likely that the Trondheim Regional Office will be maintained and that the Vadsø Regional Office will be maintained. The majority have not said that in the vote, but the parties in the Chamber have stated that if the economy related to an extended organisation is a problem, we should always be involved in discussing it with the Government in order to strengthen the financial resources of the Directorate of Fisheries. The question is: can we trust that the Government will today accept the decision that is being taken, that it will not in any way formally or informally undermine the position that the Trondheim Office and the Vadsø Office should have as a future regional office in the Fisheries Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e878	There is no need to ask questions about whether the Government will comply with the decisions taken by the Storting. We do that in any context, and we will do that in relation to what is decided today. I am still of the opinion that if we had done the reorganisation we had planned – which meant a reduction of regional offices to five, with the changes we are making in the local office structure and with the transfers and tasks that we were going to move down into the organisation – we would have got a better, more user-friendly and better quality fisheries management. I feel that by now spending considerable money on administrative tasks, we could have strengthened the professional environments, among other things. in Trondheim and Vadsø. We never meant to undermine that competence. The opposite has been the goal of the Government, and it is still.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e885	The Minister for Fisheries said to me in his previous reply that I had not understood how this should work, but I did not get a response as to whether the fishing industry itself is wrong in this context. When the industry decides to cut too much in these units, is it that the industry has not understood its own best? I did not receive a response from the Council of State. I must add that, like the representatives of Ryan and Arnstad, we in the Workers' Party are also willing to discuss the need for more resources to enable the fishing industry to develop. We consider this to be expenditure on the acquisition of income. Now many have stated that this is what they are willing to look at, so if the Council of State itself and the Government believe that this is right, it should be a majority to ensure proper resources, so that you can maintain a good infrastructure that serves this industry as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e892	I assume that this issue was particularly related to the structure we are going to have in the administration of Finnmark. Regardless of whether we should reduce the status of a regional office to an office without administrative tasks in Vadsø, the structure and number of offices would be exactly the same – for example, in the case of royal crabs, where they have a high level of competence as well as Vadsø. Another example of what we saw was that we could move out, and for which we created a room, was the maintenance of, for example. the boat register. These are tasks you could have had. In this way I am sure that the fishing industry as such would have received good service in Finnmark – in a fishing-dependent Finnmark – and that the administrative tasks that should have been transferred to Tromsø would not have created any kind of problems for the industry. The administration would have been maintained at a very high level. No matter how much money we spend in the fisheries management, my ambition is to make the best use of the funds. They are for industry service and not for internal administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e899	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e902	The size of the population is currently addressing a large-scale and significant scale reform. The need for reform has been clearly illustrated in the last few years. The problems of jealousy and foot-and-mouth disease have shown us the importance of having a great deal of attention to the first paragraphs of the food chain. This is the basis both for food that is safe for health and for meeting the quality requirements of consumers. In recent times, we have also experienced conditions around the end-product chain, which at least have to be described as worrying. This shows the need to see and improve the food production chain at all stages. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I find today that in Stortinget there is a full opening up of the main lines of the arrangement presented by the Government. I also note that there is a broad consensus on the objectives of supervision. From this point of view, Norway should be given one of the world’s best and most effective food surveillance services for both consumers and users. Overall, supervision will therefore constitute an important value-creating element for our food industry. Not least, this is an important perspective for our large fishing exports. Some believe that the new supervision should focus their attention on the final products, where inspections should be the dominant supervisory methodology. I agree that classical supervision where inspectors are present in the establishments will continue to be a virtue of necessity. At the same time, it must be clear that the work carried out by the economic operators, even throughout the food chain, is the most important element in creating safety and quality. Internal control is not just a method, but it's an expression of philosophy. The main responsibility lies with the actors in the food market. This will also be clearly expressed in the new food law. An important issue for new supervision is the relationship between the emergence of uniformity and, on the other hand, the possibility of flexibility within the regulatory framework. It is my clear opinion that one does not make this balance with a one-sided, centralised rule-oriented control. The counterpart of this will be a vital organisation with great emphasis on the decentralisation of competence and authority. It is on the basis of such decentralised organisational thinking that the Government has set up a model where it does not oversized the central link. The task of the Central Group will be to ensure a powerful, coherent organisation. This reasoning has also been central to the location of regional offices. Localisation that strengthens the competence of non-territorial capitals has been important for the Government. This is how a person will now tackle the human resources that exist around our country. I have noticed that the setting points to the challenge of taking care of relevant professional environments in Harstad. The ministry is set to follow the assumptions set out in the setting. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee notes that the Government has completed the process of reorganising food management at very high speed. The Committee points out that several hearing bodies consider that this high pace has led many to feel that the proceedings have not been properly conducted. I have some understanding of this. Let me, however, stress that good progress is absolutely essential in order to succeed in such extensive conversion processes. In particular, this is important in order to reduce the time of uncertainty for employees. This government has great ambitions to renew and convert the public sector. Overall, I am very pleased that in practice we also show that we are able to implement this. We have the goal of keeping the pace of this process outlined in the proposition. The Committee assumes, in its opinion, that the work on animal welfare is of sufficient importance. I refer in this connection to St.meld. No 12 About animal husbandry and animal welfare. For the Government, it has been important to establish the principle that laboratory activities should be organised independently of supervision. It is our opinion that this is important both in terms of the credibility of supervision and in terms of an efficient and user-friendly laboratory structure. The laboratory staff will face significant migration challenges. This would probably also become the reality regardless of which forms of ownership had been chosen. In this context, the Government has announced that, in the context of the revised 2003 national budget, it will assess migration needs related to reorganisation. For many years, from several governments, reforms have been being undertaken in the field of public food management. It has been shown, for many reasons, that this has been difficult to achieve. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I can see today that there is a broad welcome for a reform that we have every reason to have great expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e930	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e933	The Council of State itself said that the reorganisation has taken place at high speed. In addition, this process took place during the summer holidays. This was dealt with in the revised national budget in June, in August the Government took decisions on regionalisation, and immediately afterwards where regional offices were to be located, plus a number of other things. I have many years of experience as an employee of the trade union movement, and have been engaged in much negotiation in connection with reorganization. One of the things I've learned is that if you're going to succeed in a reorganization, the employees have to be involved. It is necessary to have a dialogue with the employees and the environments to be reorganised. My experience with Sommer-Norge is that then it is not easiest to have dialogue with either trust elected or with the systems. Many municipalities feel that they have not been involved and discussed and expressed their views on this. In addition, we have had contact with most of the trade unions involved in the supervision to be reorganised. My question is, when the Council of State says that he wants to avoid uncertainty for the employees during a reorganization period, wouldn't it be wise for him to have employees' organisations involved in such reorganisation, and not do as he has done now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e942	For progress and proceedings, which have been the subject of some attention and also of some criticism in this debate, I would first say: When, through the examination of the revised national budget in June, the Storting decided to go from what was the Government's proposal, two supervision, to one supervision and at the same time said that we should keep progress in the matter, it was clear that it was necessary for the Government to find the gear that was needed to keep that progress the Storting had asked for. The size asked for both parts: from two to one supervision, and to keep progressing. Progress was just linked to getting management in place before the end of the year, and was able to maintain all the different aspects of this at the necessary speed in order to have operational and operational supervision as of 1 January 2004. We took that job. So there has been a lot of debate so far today that goes on how it was possible for the Government to change from two to one supervision, as decided by the Stortinget. Of course, when we investigate a matter like this, the government on its side has also investigated and assessed two or one supervision. It was not that the day Stortinget made its decision, this came as a complete surprise to the Government, and that we had not thought the idea in advance. We had of course fully considered how we could also manage to do this with one supervision. It enabled us to move quickly on to the necessary decisions to keep the other imposed by the Storting to keep progress. Then I agree that when you have a lot of speed, and are going to be able to keep the progress that is necessary, probably many times will feel that they have not been given the ownership of the necessary processes. I also stated in my post that I had an understanding of that. We have all tried to do as much as we can with a comprehensive activity in contact with the different parts of the country, the different offices that we have within today's structure and organisations in the time after these decisions were taken. It has enabled us to meet the requirements of the Storting before they took a summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e951	We are very pleased that Minister of Agriculture Sponheim so clearly states that he will follow up on this with the Harstad environment. There is a confirmation that the comment in the setting has been taken seriously. We therefore hope that the great turbulence that has been in North Norway in connection with a weakened Harstad environment can be reduced when we get so clear confirmations from the council that he will work to ensure the best possible care of the environment there, in terms of food monitoring. Then I have a question for the Council of State, and it goes on with local offices, which I brought up in my main post. When implementing this reform, will the Council of State, if it sees that 50 to 65 local offices are too small, be able to reconsider such a view and possibly add to the required number of local offices, or is the significant performance in this matter, so that in any case one should remain within that framework? That's really what I want to challenge the state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e960	Let me first get back to you once again with regard to the comment in the setting that is related to the Harstad environment, and that there has been a significant commitment on the part of Stortinget. I am absolutely convinced that in a few years' time, when we are going to sum up the entire reorganisation – how we were able to use the whole country to carry out modern and comprehensive food surveillance – the Harstad environment will also experience that it has become a satisfactory solution, with many important jobs and competent workers. The government will follow up on that. And there's no doubt that SV's and Inge Ryan's efforts should especially be noted in that context. In terms of local office structure, which is another area where there are somewhat different views in the committee, I would say that it is absolutely crucial for us that we get, as the representative Ryan said in a previous post, ‘a local office structure that works’. It's crucial, and this work really starts for real now. Based on the rougher framework of the department here, we have suggested 50–65 local offices. I have recorded that the committee has said that, in their opinion, maybe 70-90 would have been a better solution. I think we should now allow ourselves to let management get to work, figure out how they can manage to get to the best food supervision in the world and make sure to apply the tools they need to distribute and arrondate and penetrate the country with the necessary local offices. There's no prestige in this. We still think we should be able to do it within the numbers we've set. If the new management thinks that this number needs to be increased, then of course the department is open to discuss it, and we record that we have very good back coverage for such a view in Stortinget. Let me conclude with also from my side to express my satisfaction at the good cooperation that has been with SV in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e971	With regard to the procedure in this case, I think there has been some concern about the Storting that all aspects of the matter are presented in the context of the budget and not as maritime matters – either in the context of the revised budget or in the context of the State budget. It is a pity that the matter deserves to be dealt with separately. The size has now also contributed to it, and I think that is important. I understand that the Council of State is busy keeping pace, but one has to adjust the speed a little bit to the circumstances. One of the feedback we have received here, particularly on the fisheries side, is that the communication you have had in relation to those affected, and also the dialogue you have had, has been far too bad. Unless otherwise, one must in any case take note of future processes. And I think we should be careful to put the responsibility for progress on Stortinget. So: Stortinget did not ask for such rapid progress, Stortinget asked for his own case, and Stortinget asked for an overall supervision. I interpret the council so that he's actually a little bit open to be able to increase the number of local offices, and I choose to see what he now said in his last reply, as an opening in relation to it, that at least he hasn't closed the door for that possibility. And there are some of us who believe that there should be transparency, also in view of the fact that one does not seem to have adjusted the range of local units given that there is now one common oversight for seafood and land-based food. There is also an argument that one here should be open in order to increase the number of local units, which are, of course, the pillars of the reform itself. I would like to hear the Council confirm that he sees an opening for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e981	I see no reason to have any further polemics about the past in relation to progress, other than to say that for the Government it was important both to comply with the decision of the Storting to have one oversight and to take care of what the Storting also stated, that we should keep the progress that was at stake, and that we had laid the basis for the Storting when we presented a recommended proposal for two supervision. This is history, and when today, as it looks, we get decisions for all that the government has decided and presented to the Storing in this context, then I think we'll see that this has been done a great deal of work. That's why it's not hard for me to say when we get to where we are today: we now have the top management in place for this new supervision, and in the next few months we're going to have the management in place for the different regional offices. When they're going to sit down and shape the final organization, they have to build up the best supervision we can get within the framework of the Government, and what the Biggest ends with today. I have absolutely no record of the number of local offices. I'm going to make sure we get budgets that allow us to do this, but the crucial thing here is that we have the best apparatus to ensure safe food. Then I think I have to get back to the representative Arnstad that it is a pleasure for me to say that with this we have well taken the whole country and many environments of competence into use. I have also taken with me the good words that Ryan's representative said, that this very thing, the government's ability to use the whole country through this matter, is groundbreaking. And I agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e990	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e993	The most important thing in the debate on Food Safety is that supervision serves the interests of consumers. As consumers, we must be sure of the competence and presence of supervision. This seems to be a broad consensus. But in my opinion, the government's procedure in this matter is incomprehensible. The haste that the government had with the matter this summer, when people mostly had vacations, has created both wonder and great frustration among the staff of the veterinary community in particular. I think that a treatment at a different pace and in a different order would have created much less noise and safer decisions. With regard to the location of the Kautokeino Regional Office, this has created great wonder in many environments. Many ask: When the government wants to locate such an office to the Finnish fishing community, why do it so far from the fish as is the case here? We are also many who are amazed that the Government wants to break up the significant veterinary competence environment that already exists in Harstad. I'm worried that what's happening is weakening the possibilities of building a regional office as well and as quickly as it would be possible at a localization to Harstad. What is the reason for such a choice? In my opinion, there are no professional reasons for this. In my view, district policy cannot justify this either. Harstad Municipality has lost many jobs, especially in the workshop industry and in the Defence. Lack of exploration activity in the oil industry has also created uncertainty, and the signals are clear about depopulation in Harstad. This also affects the region around Harstad city. In such a situation, it must be wrong to impose further uncertainty on this municipality by means of such public decisions. It is incomprehensible that the municipality should lose a professional environment, which is at the forefront of the country, and when the jobs are already there today. I understand the frustration this has created in the veterinary environment, not only in Harstad, but far beyond the limits of Harstad. I am surprised that SV supports the Government in this matter. I note that there is considerable disagreement within the government parties on this issue. I've recorded that in the media, but I guess it's not coming out here in the hall. I am very positive about locating new business to Kautokeino – I know the situation there. But I cannot understand what is achieved by moving such a business from one district with major challenges to another with major challenges. When good competence is already in one of these districts, it must be wrong to move. I'm glad that a majority in the Stortinget are going in to keep the regional offices of the Fisheries Directorate in Vadsø and Trondheim. It will serve the fishing industry in a good way. Distances and competences also apply in this case. The fishing industry and the farming industry need good competence and infrastructure. It must be wrong to save on such infrastructure for an industry that is in fantastic development and where expectations are high. It's possible to save yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1012	Mrs Arnstad has asked for the floor to justify an amendment to the proposal and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1015	On the basis of the signals given by the Minister of Agriculture to be able to assess the conversion needs of both the laboratory services and the number of local offices, I would like to ask that I and III in the vote be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1020	The representative Arnstad has explained the changes in the setting to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1023	Today, we are dealing with a matter and a topic that has received a lot of attention in the last three years, and perhaps the greatest attention in terms of budgetary treatment. The areas we are talking about today have actually been continuous budget winners in recent years. The concept of food security has been given a considerable place, both in the Norwegian social debate and in this Chamber. That is why I think we should be happy that this matter has now been dealt with. And when someone calls this a haste and a barrage, I honestly don't think this is anything but a spell of not having achieved what you'd rather have wanted in and around this case. A number of representatives, including: The representative, Fossli, has indicated that work on this matter began a long time ago. It was the Stoltenberg government that started this work, and I think the matter in many ways is over-ripe for treatment. It is over-mature in terms of getting an organisation, an organisation and a transformation in place at a time when we see one scandal after another being revealed in and around the concept of food security. Not least in the interests of consumers, I think it is high time that we started to get these issues organised. Usually, the reverse sign is the government's work, which is that it is said to be too slow. But when it goes fast for once, it is also tearing wrong. The other thing that I want to point out, and that many people have been involved in, is the interests of the fishing industry in this matter. I would also like to stress that there should be no conflict of competences and that it must be a challenge for the Government to ensure that in the further construction of the future food surveillance, it is not possible for the export-oriented offensive industry, which in production is several times the size of Norwegian agriculture, to have the function of a small brother. But I'm pretty sure this will fall solidly in place when the organization comes up. In this case, as there is a localisation that is up to treatment, it is the one that has received the most attention. And it surprises me to note that partisan politics has also chosen to focus the searchlight, the work and the intensity most on the concept of ‘localisation’, and that in an area and around a matter affecting the underlying offices of a department, which would normally and normally lie in the ruling of the Government. The representative of Fossli says that what the Workers' Party does in this case is something you usually never do. It is so far correct, in the sense that I see that the Workers' Party chooses to proceed in a rare and unusual way on a case-by-case basis, where the concept of a ‘big business’ is now beginning to have a new and different dimension. I want to warn you that you continue this line, because in any case, there will be arguments for and against the postal address around everything that has to do with location. As a result, this matter of food surveillance ends up boiling in many ways to Kautokeino or Harstad, and also whether the issue of five or seven Regional Administrative Offices of the Directorate of Fisheries should be crucial for the control, monitoring and preparedness we are going to have in this area. But of course this is about something completely different. The location and address of the regional offices are not essential. And then at least the opposition when dealing with the budget, at least when asking for more money, should even make sure to cut off the items that are actually going to be included and pay the invoice to those who are going to pay the function of the administrative units for further work. I'm glad you choose Kautokeino. It's a solid uplift for an area that most of everything in this country has been characterized by stagnation. I would warn against prejudging this location. At the same time, I would like to refer to the thorough and solid majority comment of the SVs and government parties, which says something about what kind of thoughts we have in order to save the environment, the solid veterinary environment that we have in Harstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1038	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1041	I don't need to extend the debate in particular, but since the majority of people today are going to make a decision that is completely on the horizon, I would like to say a few words. Most of the food produced in Troms and Finnmark is produced in the sea. The 1999 figure shows that the whole 97.6 pst. of the products to be controlled by the Food Authority for Troms and Finnmark are fish and fish food. It will take many years to build an environment of competence in Kautokeino similar to what you have in Harstad, and I doubt that it will ever happen. There is a great chance that these posts will be implemented with newly trained veterinarians without necessary and important experience and competence. To draw a little comparison, I've been told that there have been 22 different doctors in Kautokeino in one year. Kautokeino also lacks some practical prerequisites to succeed as the arena for regional food surveillance. It is 11 to 12 miles to the nearest small airfield, which is Alta, and wintertime can be a big problem for it. There is a poor offer in the municipality in terms of employment for spouses and cohabitants to those who are going to work in the new supervision. I fear that a location in Kautokeino will be a very short-term district policy, where fish farmers and fishermen throughout the coastal zone in the region will be severely harmed, especially in a longer time perspective. The location of regional food surveillance in Kautokeino is a hair-removing example of a completely misunderstood district policy. In the long term, I fear that the new supervision will work so poorly that the state sees itself as having to lay down this department. It is possible that is what is the agenda of the government parties and SV in this case. So Troms and Finnmark could be in danger of losing all regional supervision in five to ten years, and that would be very unfortunate. I think the continent at all is not worthy of what is to happen now. To me, completely ignoring the good professional environment that you have in Harstad is completely incomprehensible, and that some later to think that this can save costs is quite strange. It is clear that trying to establish new food supervision in Kautokeino will lead to large financial outlays, and I fear, as I said, that you will never get the professional environment that you have in Harstad today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1056	The President will say that there are hardly any views of many parties that have not yet emerged in the debate, so we expect it to go to the end!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1059	It's an old saying that as a row, there's one. And when we know what's going to be the end result today, one must say that the government is better off than they are mad! I think it should be a very long time to find a case where there has been so much political craftsmanship as is the case in this case. In my opinion, this textbook recipe is about how not to deal with a matter of this kind. When the Storting today chooses to interfere with things that normally lie with the Government, it has a background in the way the Government has dealt with this matter. I want to remind you of what was the starting point, that the government had a well-founded proposal for a shared supervision. This proposal should have been approved here in the Chamber, because the previous government had the same position, and so the majority should have been assured that this had been promoted as a matter of its own. But one chose to put it into the revised national budget, and then one negotiated it away. Then we have to assume that it was processed away because this was a requirement from the Progress Party. Even if I have a sense of rapid treatment, I don't have a particular sense that one has seen aside all the democratic rules of play, as one has done in this case, and has not warned or drawn with the added, the community and the professional community. One has also not had normal hearing routines, which in my view would have meant that one could have got a positive case instead of a negative one, which has made a lot of people both in the professional community and among those added have got all the spikes out. When just a couple of weeks after one was down in Stortinget, it had to be either because that proposal that one suggested wasn't meant by the government's side, and that one expect to negotiate it off, or it must have been that one has taken this case a little bit to the heel to get it done before the holiday. I fear the last. One should have expected that it was the Progress Party that was the architect behind this, and therefore I was very surprised when it turned out that the Government had not secured back coverage in Stortinget. That is why I must say that in this case we have closed better than the mind, because the government is now largely getting an impact on what it has proposed. There will always be a conflict about location. We have to bear in mind that the starting point for this matter has always been to gain better control. It is then important that the control unit part, namely the local environment, be given priority. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Agriculture today says that he should evaluate the number of local offices once more. Then it is that the Labour Party could initially envisage a different organization, especially when it concerns the number of local offices. When it doesn't happen, it's important for us to say that the most important thing now is that one gets closed with this, and one gets behind the decisions that are finally made. For the Labour Party's part, I just want to make sure that we do ours to make this a successful organization when it comes to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1082	I take the floor after Mr. Arnesen's statement to clarify why SV has landed at its position on Kautokeino. In my opinion, one of the major weaknesses of Norwegian policy today is that it is sectoral policy, it is a bit of bit-thinking that dominates. Some people have to take responsibility for the whole thing. And the whole of SV is not least to take care of the whole of Norway, to have an active and good district policy. We're working on the following philosophy, as former representative Inge Myrvoll, I think it was, has expressed from the pulpit: what can be added to Røst, that's what we're adding to Røst. If it's not there, we'll add it to Svolvær. If it doesn't work with Svolvær either, we'll add it to Bodø. And if it doesn't go with Bodø, we'll add it to Oslo! It's a kind of philosophy we have to work on if we're to get to the goals that Stortinget has set to prevent a deportation from District Norway. So to the question of professionalism. Yes, there is no doubt that Harstad today has a better professional environment in this area than Kautokeino. But what would have been moved if you were to always point to the professional? Did Norsk Tipping lie on Hamar? Did Statskog lie in Namsos? Never! That time it was said that people would stop tipping if we moved the tipping from Oslo to Hamar. But it went well! It went perfectly well! I think that taking some political action is necessary. When you're going to operate with a holistic approach, you also have to build up some new environments sometimes. However, I agree with Mr Arnesen's representative that only professional considerations should be taken into account, and the region office for Troms and Finnmark should have been located in Harstad. But if you are to have a holistic approach, where you also care for the enormous challenges you face in the interior of Finland, you have to make sure in some context that you do something, not only in beautiful words, but also through practical action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1093	Since I'm done writing Christmas cards, I'm not going to health home, despite the fact that I see that it becomes a bit of a trend towards the end of the debate. But I need to take the floor in relation to what the case spokesperson said in his post. The small thing I know about organisational theory is that a good reorganisation process requires anchoring at all stages of the organisation, such as the representative Fossli was in his line to the Council of State. Unfortunately, the government's management of this case shows that one would rather have progress and overrun than participation and a good result. It's almost as if I suspect the state council that might best do this, Councillor Victor D. Norman, for having had a little finger in the game in charge of this process. The Court of First Instance, on which the Committee has been consulted, has clearly been negative. It's not about ownership of the process, it's not even about being allowed to be in the process. I think this is serious, so I take the floor in spite of the fact that the debate is running towards the end. The Minister of Agriculture said this summer that the Government has chosen to run so quickly on this matter because one did not want all local politicians in the country to get involved, demonstrating as clearly as can be expected how little this Government has understood the relationship between process and results. And when political advisors in the Ministry of Fisheries owe their decision to the Stortinget to put down some regional offices in the Directorate of Fisheries, it shows how little responsibility the Government takes for its own processes. The discussion that the Committee has had, and the strong pressure that especially the SV's nutrient fraction has been subjected to, could have been avoided if the responsible government councils had shown a little better state-manship. I have very much respect for and a great desire for local involvement in matters that Stortinget is working on. The reality is that there's too little of this. It is a paradox that when this committee dealt with the ownership message with proposals for the sal of values for billions of dollars, there was only one instance that was particularly interested in putting pressure on us. The pressure and local participation in this matter are quite different, to say the least. I strongly defend the right of local units to influence Stortinget's decisions. I also defend the Storting's right to stay away from matters that are normally the government's responsibility, because of a serious argument: dissatisfaction with the proceedings and the bad process. We have therefore considered all aspects of this matter very seriously. The government should have realized that she is a minority government, and ensured support in the Storting before making such a case. This is why I want the responsible government councils to have a good Christmas with the hope that they will have such a good time to think that they will come to realize that it is wise for results and policies to run wise and good processes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1110	There was just a need to comment on a couple of posts that I felt were in place now at the bottom of the debate. There is no problem finding counter-argument against placing central services in the districts. It's the easiest thing in the world, and that's basically what dominated the post-war image in Norway. Everything has been centralised. When we now try a counterpower policy, the government has shown courage. She faced criticism, for professional arguments, but at least she did something. Time has now come to turn the current away from the cities and give young people who come from the districts the opportunity to get their place of growth as their home – as in this case Kautokeino, and other places where decentralised solutions are chosen. The Lottery Authority has been added to Förde. It's going well. The Brønnøsund Register is in place, and the many other supervisory authorities that have tried this work, despite the fact that it was said not to go. The Harstad environment will be passed on, and it is the only local office that has strong leadership – the continuation of professional, defence-related activity, not so different from what is going on today. There are strong concessions. Finally, to Aksenssen, who found that this was a waste of work, I would say that the work done before this decision we are making today is the result of many years of work, from a working group, and from the ministry, and it was actually no worse than that both the leader and the vice-leader in the Labour Party gave a qualitative positive assessment of this work and said that it was not necessary to intervene at all at this point. On this basis, I feel that we have completed a good process today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1121	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1136	I have made a proposal that means that no more powers should be given until you know what those powers are used for. I note that the Committee has said that this should be annexed to the Minutes. We will probably come back to this matter in the structural communication that will be dealt with. I have to tell you a little bit about how reality works. I'm a fisherman, and I've been fishing from the time I was a little boy and until I got to Stortinget, and I haven't had a fixed salary until I got my big money. So it's going to happen that we're sitting in this hall and giving authority. We give powers to the ministry. What does the Ministry do with the powers? They're delegating them to the directorate. What does the directorate do with them? They shall further delegate to the inspectors. What do the inspectors do? Well, they're looking at the book to see what we've decided in Stortinget. And we haven't adopted any of the world's things. In the case of the legislation being exercised, under the authority of the Stortinget, the foot on which they stand up from the bed on that day depends. The rules define them themselves. It is therefore the discretion of the administration that is taken into account when approving the fishermen or not approving them. Because they have no legislation to follow. And here we are sitting on the Stortinget and giving authority to such a regulation! In other words, if a fisherman is to go to court against that inspector, he must judge the Stortinget, who has given authority. And it doesn't matter! It just doesn't matter! I know what I'm talking about, because I've learned it. When the fish swim in the sea and are alive, it is the Ministry of Fisheries that manages it. But as soon as it's dead and gets over the rail, over the gate or over the fence, there's three departments dealing with it. It's the Ministry of Defence, it's the Ministry of Justice – with the police – and it's the Ministry of Agriculture, of all things. They're food inspectors. Then it's the fourth state power, Akersgata's dictatorship. They have on the front page of the newspapers that you're a basement. That's why I brought the police into the picture. Everyone in this room walks around and thinks it's the Department of Fisheries that decides, but it's not. I myself have taken legal action against the department via an inspector. It was a herring we slept with in the West Fjord. I was convicted, but I did not get the case before the Supreme Court, because it is stated in the fisheries legislation that you are not allowed to release catches that are dead or dying. That there were pruners around the bill that we had to hunt, had nothing to say. We could get rid of the catch. It was in a nutshell, it was alive! But because the inspector said it was dying, it was dying! Then you have to judge the Storting. I know what I'm talking about, because I've learned it. This is the only professional group in this country who is convicted in Akersgata because we guess wrong, and we have given authority to that in Stortinget. We have given authority to the Department, which in turn has given authority to the Directorate. Why are we guessing wrong? We have a catch that we're guessing is 40 tons. Then we go to the buyer and deliver the catch, and then it's just 30 tons. Then we're convicted of fish fraud by 10 tons, and we're hanged out on the front pages of the Akersgata dictatorship that we've cheated! We've stolen from the sea! We haven't stolen any of the world's things, but we've guessed wrong! With an emerging EU debate, I must immediately say that when we are in the Norwegian 200-metre zone, we have to swallow and wash the fish and ice it down in boxes. When EU boats cross the border, they have to empty their crates in the sea because they have no quota for the fish. They're putting the fish out again. While we in Norway are going to bring it to land in the ice, they have to put it out again – and that's the ice fish! We have two widely differing fisheries legislation in Norway and in the European Union. – I may go a little too far now, but I think I have to say it. When I have promoted this proposal, it is time we received a message from the Ministry that says how they have used the legislation, which we have given them authority to, before we hand out new powers. But now the budget has been adopted, so we have handed out new ones – without even being aware of it!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1155	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1171	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1180	Traditionally, only the Norwegian Fisheries Team has been represented in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission and in the Regulatory Council. Over the last few years, the Norwegian Coastal Fishery Team has been increasingly involved in the public debate, and in recent years the organisation has maintained its position as an active organisation in the fishing industry. The Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team is currently a permanent observer in the Board of Regulators and has applied for regular membership on several occasions. This is the background for the matter we are considering today. All Commissions, Councils and Committees are assessed on an independent basis. There is no automation in that, even if you are a member of a council, you also have access to other selections or forums. It is therefore also not possible to grant a general authorisation for participation in ‘relevant Councils and Committees in the fisheries management’. It is provided on an autonomous basis from year to year. It is also important to make a concrete assessment for each committee and for each council, both in terms of representation and in terms of the non-exhaustive nature of the bodies. During the year’s session, the country’s county rapporteurs were invited for the first time to participate with a representative of the Norwegian delegation to the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. In recent years, the Fiskerlage has been represented by three people – the leader, one from the sea fishing fleet and one from the coastal fishing fleet. The coastal fishing fleet has thus far been represented through the Norwegian Fisheries Team. In the Board of Regulators, Norway's Coastal Fisheries Act has observer status. The coastal fishing team is an active organisation – an active actor with important input into the regulation of fisheries, which is included in the dossier to the Regulatory Council. Therefore, the views of the Coastal Fisheries Team are important in the decision-making process. It is positive that the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team has been increasingly included in Norwegian fisheries management in recent years. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Fisheries wrote in his letter to the Business Committee that he would consider the further shape and composition of the Board of Regulators, including any representation of the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team and other organisations that have applied for membership. Let me conclude by stressing that, although I as a wholesaler have, of course, views on participation and representation in various councils and bodies, the responsibility for taking the final assessment must lie with the Minister for Fisheries. The Ministry of Fisheries is responsible for managing the various negotiations and consultation processes, and the Ministry of Fisheries is probably the best aware of the ongoing developments in the organisational image. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Fisheries will assess the participation in advance of the next meeting of the Board of Regulators.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1201	I don't want to reduce the Christmas holidays unnecessarily for Stortinget by prolonging today's debate, but this is an important matter for professionals in an industry with great challenges. Fisheries face many challenges both nationally and in relation to agreements with other nations. Regulatory issues and international fisheries agreements are one of the most important concerns of industry and operators. It is natural that professional organisations will have a word in mind when important negotiations are to take place, when important decisions are to be made and recommendations made. I think it is a strength for the industry that there is a wide range of representation in important forums and negotiations. I also believe that a broad representation creates a better dialogue and a greater common understanding of the realities and challenges facing the industry. I believe that this can better bring the industry and the authorities together on positions that serve the industry and the rest of society. In this context, I believe that it has been a strength for Norwegian agriculture that both Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers teams have had the right to negotiate. I hope and believe that it must be in the interests of the entire fishing industry that the Norwegian coastal fishing fleet should also be involved in such forums as are mentioned in the proposal. This organisation has grown strongly in recent years and has become a tone-setting organisation that claims to be good in the debate. I think we need this breadth and the commitment of all tone-setting organisations to find solutions and agreements that can secure the fishing industry as a forward-looking and safe industry in the time to come. In this way it has to be assessed whether other organisations in the industry also have the dimension and importance to the same extent that there will be an advantage to representation in the same way. We therefore welcome this proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1218	There are many things that it might have been nice to comment here, but I feel that this with a width is important. I don't have a problem seeing it, but there's a balance between width and size, because if such a selection gets too large, it gets so heavy that it won't be ideal. When the Coastal Fisherman team wants to come into such forums, I fully understand that, I don't have a problem understanding it. I know about other heavy organizations, e.g. RFR, the Shipowners' Association for the Shipowners' Union, U/70 ft, which also wants to be involved in these negotiations for very understandable reasons. In my opinion, if the Council and the Ministry are to consider the extension and skip to others, one must not only limit this to the Coastal Fishery Team, one must also consider whether others can be involved, whether others may be able to gain observer status in the selection in the same way as the Coastal Fishery Team currently has. Bendiks Arnesen was in on this with a strength for the industry. Maybe it would have been a strength for the industry that we didn't have three-four-five different professional organisations. If the fishermen could once again gather in an organisation and stop fighting for their special interests, it might be a strength. That's what's going on in agriculture too, I understand that the farmers and the small farmers want to join together to get stronger. It should perhaps be a call from this room that fishermen’s organisations try again to celebrate some of the horses and gather in a strong organisation, which would then be represented in such negotiations. Otherwise, we have no problem with what is the setting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1230	I think the debate is taking an unexpected turn. I feel quite sure that as regards the composition of the negotiating delegation, I believe that this has been assessed by the present and not least by previous governments. I am absolutely convinced that the composition has been assessed and probably reached the same conclusion that the current government has reached. In addition, the current government has extended the consultation series and released to other actors with advice and input. I do not think it is the big problem of Norwegian fishing industry that this kind of delegation is not big enough. However, I am surprised that, particularly from the Labour Party – those who previously, in the government position, have chosen not to go for an extension of the delegation – now the conclusion is that Norway’s Fiskerlag alone is unable to care for Norwegian fishermen’s interests in this area alone. Even now, it is clear that others can also be accommodated in this delegation. My view of this question is that now we should rather try to reduce the number of special interests that will fit around the table in these negotiations. I don't think we need any more evidence of how fishing quotas have been allocated between the individual countries and the individual parties negotiating. Sometimes it has unfortunately been like the goat and oatmeal to control in this area as well. I believe that in the future it will be a major challenge to ensure that a freer and more independent position is given in the Ministry of Fisheries and research teams to be able to care for the overall interests, no matter what kind of grouping one or the other might come from. So I can't share all of the opinions presented in articles from here. I would rather the delegation had been reduced instead of opening up further expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1239	I think I'm wise to ignore the post of the representative of Kristiansen, and say on behalf of the proposers that we are actually reasonably pleased with the discussions that have been held in the committee and the committee comments that are the basis. Then I give an extensive hand to the Council of State and have confidence that this question will be re-evaluated, and that the Council of State will take the signals that are coming. In fact, it is quite special that the Labour Party also considers the issue contained in the proposal to be important. I think we can say that the development of the fishing industry's organisations has taken place quickly, and that is the basis for a careful assessment in the ministry. I don't see the whole point in increasing the level of conflict beyond that. We'll have to do that with a later crossroads if it turns out there's a need for it. So in the interests of Christmas holidays and other conditions, I give an extensive hand to the Council of State and have confidence that this will be properly assessed. Then we'd better talk on a later occasion if we needed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1253	I have noted the wishes of the majority of the Committee on the Representation of Norway's Coastal Fisheries Teams, both in the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission and in the Board of Regulators. Because these two organs have different characteristics, I'm going to comment on them separately. As I have previously explained in the form of a letter to the Committee, there is a balanced assessment on the basis of which the Ministry of Fisheries has appointed a delegation to the negotiations that we conduct each year with other countries, including the fisheries negotiations with Russia, which have a long tradition in relation to the Commission's work. The assessment is based mainly on the representation of the parties concerned, the need for the delegation to have a manageable size for the delegation leader and negotiation tactical considerations. All three of these considerations need to be balanced. Who should be considered as ‘the parties concerned’ is assessed on an independent basis from year to year, as has been done by previous governments, and as I have done. This year, I opened the door to the participation of the regional level through a county rapporteur. In this way, I've changed the practice from what's been before. Until now, the Ministry has assessed the interests of coastal fishermen, among other things. has been ensured through the participation of Norway’s Fiskarlag in the Norwegian delegation. That doesn't mean, however, that you can't make another assessment in the future, I keep that open. That opening must then be balanced against the considerations I set out: manageable size, negotiation tactical considerations and that the parties are adequately represented. At the same time, I would like to point out that under the Constitution it is explicitly clear that it is up to the Government to conclude agreements and treaties with foreign powers. This includes the practical implementation of such negotiations, in general and in individual cases, as well as the selection of representatives for Norwegian negotiating delegations. It is of great importance for the effective exercise of the Foreign Affairs Council that the Government is at all times free to assess the most appropriate composition of delegations to conduct international negotiations. Therefore, from that point of view, I would not like to commit myself to providing a single organisation with a permanent representation in a negotiating delegation – as I understand the proposal – and thus exempt this organisation from the assessment that will normally be carried out every year in terms of the composition of the delegation. We have a process in advance of the delegation appointment, and that made us change our composition this year in relation to previous year's compositions. I also see concerns by opening up a practice where the negotiating delegations can gradually get an unmanageable amount for the person who is always responsible for conducting the negotiations on behalf of Norway – it is in relation to Russia or other countries with which we are negotiating. In the case of the Board of Regulators, it is therefore the case that the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team already has observer status there. I would also like to point out that all written input to the Board of Regulators is included in the case submissions, regardless of the status of the proposer in the Council. In this way, the Coastal Fishery Team is treated in the same way as others. As I have also explained earlier, next year the Ministry of Fisheries will also assess the future form and composition of the Council, including any representation of the Coastal Fisheries Team, before the Spring Council. It is also correct, as the representative Solholm explains, that several organisations with special interests in fisheries have expressed the wish to enter the Board of Regulators. Then balancing the width and size is an important consideration to take, as the representative Solholm also pointed out. For other relevant advice and samples in the fishing industry, Norway’s coastal fishing teams are represented where, following an assessment, they have been found to be accurate, e.g.: in the Norwegian Råfisk team. In administrative terms, the Ministry of Fisheries has also invited the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team to participate in several working groups where it has been natural. The coastal fishing team is also a consultative body on matters relating to both participation in fisheries and regulation of fisheries where consultations are conducted outside the Regulatory Council. Finally, I would like to assure you that, as regards both participation in negotiating delegations and national selections, there is a thorough assessment on the basis of the composition. The same assessment must also be taken into account in the case of any changes to the Coastal Fishery Layer or others. In this way I see the open hand from the representative Elvik, as it was said. Otherwise, I have to say that Bendiks Harald Arnesen is wrong. It's not a power for the industry to tile up. In this way, his statement demonstrates that much of the organizational teaching of Gerhardsen has also been forgotten in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1283	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1303	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1321	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1337	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1344	Silja Ekeland, who is the rapporteur on this matter, has unfortunately become ill, and I am making a valuable contribution to her in this matter, with which she has worked actively. This is an interesting proposal put forward by the proposers in Document No. 8:11, which was probably caused in many ways by the difficult situation that the Think factory in Aurskog ended up in. Ford Motor Company bought as well-known electric car manufacturer Think more than three years ago. Ford decided in the autumn of 2002 to terminate his involvement in Think. Both a working group, with representatives from the company and the employees, and an action group work for Think to be further driven in Norway as a leading electric car manufacturer. The Committee considers that Norway as an environmental nation has a responsibility to be a leading country in the use of 0-emission cars. Through the measures already in place, Norway has shown that new and environmentally friendly technologies are well advanced. From 1 March next year, the Ministry of Transport will launch a pilot scheme for electric cars to use the collective field. The government will also investigate the so-called California model, which requires that a particular part of the sale be zero-emission cars and low-emission cars. The Ministry of Finance will also assess how the VAT exemption can be extended to the rental and leasing of electric cars. The Committee asks the Government to make a rapid assessment of the exemption from VAT on the rental and leasing of electric cars. The reason why the Government has not opted for a total exemption from company car tax is that it would violate the principle that benefits in kind should be taxed in the same way as wages. The authorities have already reduced the tax base by two price classes using electric car as a company car. Nor is there a majority in the Storting for the proposal that general government be required to buy zero-emission cars. Purchasing by general government shall be a decentralised task. Therefore, in order not to exercise undue purchasing power, each entity should determine which cars are to be purchased at any time, and the units should of course assess their value and suitability on their own basis. For example, for this reason, the government decided this summer to give up its central purchasing agreement with Microsoft. It was observed that a central purchasing agreement in this field led to an excessive purchasing power, which in turn affected the competitive situation in the market. Both the purchase of software and cars should therefore be a decentralised task. However, individual departments may invite their subsidiaries to choose 0-emission cars where appropriate and where there is a practical solution. Finally, let me just say a few words that the Norwegian authorities have facilitated the use of electric cars in Norway through a number of exceptional measures: free public parking, exemptions from the toll charge, exemptions from the one-off and annual fee, reduced basis of charges for the use of electric cars as a company car, introduction of a 0 rate for electric cars. If, contrary to the assumption, there are some people in the debate who would carefully try to present it as if the Norwegian authorities were slowing down in this area, it is therefore not at all correct. Norway is a leading country in this area, perhaps at the forefront of this arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1361	One shall not fail to support the fact that the problems at the Think factory in Aurskog-Høland are the reason why some of us were speeding up proposals for measures to facilitate the increased use of 0-emission cars in Norway. It should have been the case that Norway, which manufactures perhaps the world’s best electric car, had improved conditions for the use of such cars. Although much has been done – because it is – probably a lot more can be done, and that is what we have pointed out in this Document No. The 8th proposal, tabled by the Labour Party. So we can ask ourselves, why aren't there any more people driving in these cars? Why is it not that public agencies and municipalities etc. do 0-emission cars use instead of petrol and diesel-powered cars, which pollute? There are many reasons for this, including: the marketing has probably not been good enough, and we have not pressed enough for one to go to the purchase of such cars. The municipalities that have used 0-emission cars have good experience and should be precursor municipalities and provide their reactions to other municipalities. In the last few weeks it's been quite cold here in the east, and when it's cold, we notice the pollution better. It gets harder to breathe, especially for those who have problems from before. Cities are most vulnerable. An example is Drammen, who some years ago actually had to set up a warning system that told me when there was so much contaminated air that it was dangerous to go out for some people. They have also addressed measures to stimulate people to buy 0-emission cars, as one of the measures to reduce urban pollution. We who are behind this Document No. The 8-proposal, had hoped that the government would have been more offensive in this case, both to promote the use of zero-emission cars, to reduce pollution and to maintain an exciting and great technological environment in Aurskog-Høland. The last time I had contact with the action group Think Now, they could tell me that they still had potential investors who were interested and who were, among other things, I waited for this matter to be dealt with in Stortinget. We have a hope that this company can be preserved, and that the new Think model, which is actually completed in the production line up in Aurskog-Høland, can soon roll around on the roads, both here in Norway and in other countries. There is the possibility of a market for this car. It's the only electric car approved in both the United States and Europe, and it should be the basis for a larger sale if the right investors get a handle on the case, and if we as a nation are offensive in order to facilitate it. Although, through the letter from the Minister of Industry, the Government has given positive signals in some areas, which the Minister of Finance has also contributed to – we hope that it will once again look at the proposals to which it has not been positive, and that when we go into a new year, we will see that production in Aurskog-Høland is again under way. So to a case that concerns one of the comments in the setting. It goes on with any fund for the refund of parts of the purchase price to individuals who buy a 0-emission car. There the members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party say that this could be contrary to the EEA Agreement. We are a little uncertain about this and ask the Government to consider further investigating this matter, because it may be that this is an environmental measure and therefore does not conflict with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1381	Ford has invested considerable resources in the development and production of electric cars in Norway. When the company now throws the cards, it is estimated to be NOK 1 billion on the production of 1,000 Think cars, or something else: an investment of SEK 1 million. kr per. Car. The public has also contributed several hundred million dollars through various grant and support schemes. In addition, all exclusive schemes involving the use of electric cars come in the form of the many tax exemptions and free arrangements. The authorities have already made very good progress in production and development. There is hardly any Norwegian product that has so many special arrangements and gets as much state aid as the electric car Think. And new measures are being considered. 0-emission cars are now to be used in the collective sector, and the Government will investigate the California model, as well as assessing how a VAT exemption can be extended to the rental and leasing of electric cars. Despite all this, the Ford Engine has chosen to withdraw. It has been concluded that the car does not have sufficient market potential. The car has limited battery capacity even with new battery technology. It has only two seats, and it becomes too expensive to produce, says Ford. Thus, after spending one billion kroner over four to five years, it has been decided to invest in hybrid cars and fuel cells instead. We have no tradition or long-term experience of car production in this country. Trolls were produced in a few copies after the war before it ended. We also have the Moxy dumps on Fräina, which have always been dependent on state grants and guarantees, as well as Think in Aurskog. Nothing would have been better than having succeeded in a competitive car industry in Norway that also improved our environmental profile. But here it is important to distinguish between Norwegian electric car and electric car production and the general environment. The point is that although it would prove to be environmentally correct and necessary to quota electric cars, it is not certain that it is life-created to produce them in Norway. The most important thing now, in addition to the existing framework conditions, is to get private forces with significant skills and capital to invest in production. They must then be willing to invest substantial amounts and have the ability to find out whether realistic opportunities exist in an international market. One element of this will be the technology it would be right to invest in to be competitive in the environmental market for cars. Fortunately, several serious stakeholders have signed up for a possible acquisition of the car manufacturer in Aurskog. But there are a number of questions that need to be resolved during the March ahead. Among other things, there have been problems with the rights of the Think brand and with the patents of the plastic casting processes. A new owner must also have patience and time to wait for approvals and adjustments in relation to the new battery technology to be used in this car if necessary. Significant investments must be made on a long-term basis because it may take time to obtain revenue from production. The Progress Party is of the opinion that Think should have the opportunity to achieve a business-friendly, profitable production, it is a prerequisite that one or more investors have sufficient capital and competence and are willing to invest in the company in the long term. This is the most important thing. When private investors are in place and needs have been identified, it may be appropriate to assess the instruments. The Progress Party is also willing to assess public participation during a transitional period if it has a reasonable degree of assurance that production is on its own feet further in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1400	The representative Kristiansen said that this proposal was prompted by the situation around the factory Think in Aurskog-Høland, and that is correct enough. But first let me go into why I think it is right to facilitate the use of zero-emission cars in Norway as well as what we as proposers put up. Although I, not least as Akershus' representative, am concerned with the jobs in Aurskog-Høland, think is not the one that is the most important to take into account in this matter. For me, it is more important that my 80-year-old grandmother should be able to go out in winter days. We have a situation of air pollution and dust in cities that makes this proposal absolutely necessary, which makes it necessary to introduce alternatives to the most polluting cars in the city centre, for example. Of course, from an environmental point of view, one can draw the current from one to the other, in relation to the major global environmental impacts of the use of zero-emission cars. But for people in e.g. Oslo is confident that the improvement of their local environment, of the air they breathe in, will be enormous with the increased use of zero-emission cars. That's the perspective we have to start with here. We sometimes make calculations of how much a human life is worth. How much do you have to do, for example, use to prevent road accidents? How much is it worth investing in a road if you can count on so many accidents being prevented? But there's also talk of hundreds of people probably dying earlier than they would otherwise, because of the air quality in this country. Then, in my opinion, it is also right to look at zero-emission cars as an action that is actually about human health, about the local air environment and about giving people a better life. Then, in my opinion, the representative Fossli has made very clear about the proposal itself. I'm not going to repeat everything she said in her excellent post, but I want to talk a little about what the representative Hedstrom was about when it was about Ford's role. It is correct, as the representative Hedstrøm said, that Ford has invested large sums in the production and development of the electric car Think in Norway. What Ford has not done is to bet large sums on the marketing of the same electric car. I am surprised that some of the parties who are constantly preaching the excellence of the market economy believe that a manufacturer has made enough efforts when they have got a product out of the factory hall, regardless of whether they have tried to sell it or not. People I've talked to have tried to buy an electric car without having the opportunity to do it, and it's a little bit sought to say that the market doesn't want it, when people experience it, is that the product is as inaccessible on the market as what this electric car has been. It concerns the purpose of production. It's about the fact that a lot of Ford's motivation has been to export to California to fill its quota in relation to the legislation that it seemed for a period of time to have there. It is too far to take the whole debate now before Christmas holidays, but I want to hold on to the fact that it is impossible to see if Think as such is life-making before we have seen the car market also on the Norwegian market. For SV's part, we also want to hold on to the fact that we want 0-emission cars introduced. It is not a matter of us wanting to subsidize Think as such so that a Norwegian manufacturer of zero-emission cars will compete with the already existing manufacturers of zero-emission cars on the Norwegian market. We want these cars and other types of zero-emission vehicles to be produced because we want them in as an alternative. Finally, some have also been involved in hybrid cars and other alternatives. It may well be that the electric car, for example, as it is talking about in Think's case, is a transitional arrangement. It's not sure that's the technology we're going to have in ten years. But what is certain is that there is a car that can be driven on Norwegian roads today – at least if you have a driving licence, which I do not have – while these hybrid cars are not an alternative that can be used per. today. My grandmother approaches 80 years, for her the next ten years are quite important. Obviously, we can see that there are other technologies we're going to use in ten years' time. That's why we're talking about zero-emission cars and facilitating this. But we can't postpone doing anything about air quality in these areas, for example, because we think we can do it a little bit better in ten years. It won't last.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1417	First I take up the proposal made by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. In recent years, a number of measures have been put in place to promote the expansion of the hall and use of electric cars in Norway, for example. exemption from VAT on the purchase of a car, exemption from annual tax, exemption from tolls and from a single fee, and electric cars park free of charge at all public workplaces. Despite the measures, the sale and use of electric cars has not been made to the extent we want. This may have led to the fact that there is still something expensive to go to purchase an electric car, although there have been heavy tax reductions. The limit on the running length of these cars may be a negative element in this context, and apart from the fact that the placing on the market of electric cars as a product has not been sufficient. Public agencies and private companies have not purchased as many electric cars as one had believed and hoped. There has also been a slight tendency to lease these cars. In contrast to purchases, rental of electric cars is not exempt from VAT. Thus, if an electric car rather than a petrol or diesel car, there will often be large costs for each unit and company. As an environmental nation, Norway has a responsibility to be a transitory country when it comes to the use of 0 emissions cars. Especially in cities, emissions from car traffic are significant and shameful. Electric cars can then be an essential element for cleaner air. Through the measures already taken in Norway, we have shown that we are far ahead when it comes to using new, environmentally friendly technologies. Nevertheless, it is possible to get more measures to make more use of 0-leap cars. From 1 March 2003, the Ministry of Transport launched a pilot scheme for electric cars to benefit from collective fields. The government will also figure out the California model that means that a set of demands for the car industry that a certain part of the sale be 0-cars and cars with little emissions. The Ministry of Finance will assess how the exemption from VAT can be extended to include rental and leasing of electric cars. I am pleased that the Storting will today decide to ask the Government to make such a review. A total exemption from company car tax would violate the principle that in-kind taxes should be taxed in the same way as wages. But the board of directors have already reduced the tax base by two price classes using an electric car as a company car. Purchasing in public administration should be a decentralised task. At the same time, according to the opinion of the Christian People's Party, individual departments should encourage their subordinate agencies to choose 0-cars where it is practically possible. We in the Christian People's Party hope that the government's positive attitude to 0-cars will help to ensure that think car production can continue in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1438	Olaf Gedrem has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1441	As previous speakers have pointed out, there may be many different reasons why it has been difficult to make progress in the production of Think cars in Aurskog-Høland, and in the developments seen in the last year. I think, like Special Representative Hall Arnøy, that there are a lot of good reasons, from an environmental point of view, to continue developing these types of cars. I would like to remind you that there are quite a number of industrial policy measures of a certain size in Norway that we have spent many years developing, where a large proportion of public and private funds have also been used before the product has been developed. That doesn't mean that the product hasn't been good. Sometimes it has actually become a very good business opportunity out of a product even though both state and private have spent a lot of resources on the development of the product. The centre party is still of the opinion that the development of the electric car Think in Norway can be both good industrial policy and good environmental policy for the country of Norway, and that it is now necessary for us in a difficult situation for Think production in Aurskog to try to stimulate the further development of the product and, in particular, the marketing of the product electric car Think. In the long term, it may prove to be good business and contribute to a good environment. I am not so sure that this, as the representative Hedstrøm had in mind, is a production that could perhaps be done better elsewhere than in Norway. On the contrary, I believe that, in this case, the situation which has been done partly in other selected sectors, that the knowledge developed in Norway may well be in Norway. The most important thing that has now been seen in Aurskog-Høland is precisely the knowledge and competence built around the development of the electric car. I believe that we have come some way through the proposal that has been put forward and through the position that is being debated today on further action. I think it is important to assess the VAT exemption on the leasing of electric cars. I think it's important to now assess the California model. I also think it is important that after 1 March the electric car is given the opportunity to use the collective field. However, with regard to a few of the proposals raised in the public debate, I think it is a bit remarkable that we cannot gather in a majority in this Chamber to go beyond what appears in today's position. One is the question of increasing the use of electric cars by public authorities. I find it difficult to understand the argument that there should be an improper use of public market power, all the time we know that the public has just concluded an agreement with Norwegian Air to ensure that the state's employees fly with that company when they are out traveling. It is the use of market power, and it was also marketed by the Government as the use of market power in relation to the airlines. Then I think it's strange that it should be possible to do it in one area, but you shouldn't be able to do it in another area. Another proposal that has also been put forward in the debate, which is also not being approved today, is the issue of removing company car taxes in the case of electric cars. In my opinion, the argument put forward here by the Government as something that would make it difficult to implement such a measure, namely that it would break with the provision of in-kind performance, a purely formalistic argument, because that regulation is so extensive that everything you could actually do with any exemption, would break with that regulation. But the point is that if it was political will to do so, one would of course be able to exempt that type of car from company car tax, without it being necessary to make it a major problem in relation to the regulation, and without it having been given precedent in other areas. So I think that we have come a little way with the proposal for a decision that we have today, but I would have liked us to have come further in relation to some of the concrete measures. But I hope that what comes down in today's suspension, at least makes it interesting for those who are potential private investors, in the future to continue to invest in electric car production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1460	As you know, the Norwegian authorities have already facilitated both the use and production of electric cars in Norway through a number of exceptional measures. Financing of government budgets has been used from the beginning of 1990, mainly from the SND. By the turn of the year 1998/1999, the State had contributed to investment financing with a total of 143 million. kr in the form of government grants and loans. Plus 32 million. kr paid by the public partner in the OFU context. A number of measures have been developed and implemented to promote the increased use of electric cars in Norway, including exemptions from annual and non-recurring taxes, exemptions from tolls, free parking in public parking places, reduced tax bases using electric cars as a company car, down two price classes, and from July 2001 zero rates for the placing on the market of electric cars were introduced. As of 1 March 2003, electric cars will be opened in the collective fields. In assessing future measures to increase zero-emission technologies in the transport sector, the Government of the Ministry of the Environment will explore the possibility of using the so-called California model or equivalent in Norway. The model requires the car industry to have a specific part of the sale as 0-emission cars. The Minister for Transport has recently met with the car industry to discuss this and will set up an expert committee to explore possible measures to increase the use of this type of vehicle. Any proposal for the quantitative introduction of 0-emission technologies in the transport sector requires thorough analysis and needs to be assessed in the light of the EEA Agreement. The government does not support the proposal to exempt electric car as a company car from the benefit tax. At the same time, procurement in the State/public sector is, in principle, a decentralised responsibility. All contracting authorities/entities shall, as a general rule, comply with the procurement law, which requires all public acquisitions to take place after open and free competition and in such a way as not to give preference to individual suppliers on a technical or national basis. However, the Ministry of Trade may invite its sub-deaters to choose 0-emission cars where practicable. The creation of a fund to provide direct support to private purchasers of electric cars can be equated with direct subsidisation of the production of electric cars. The proposed reimbursement mechanism may therefore conflict with the EEA Agreement. I would therefore like to withdraw the inclusion of such schemes, also on the basis of the significant financial statements that this would entail for the authorities. The Ministry of Finance will assess how the possible extension of the VAT exemption for electric car sales to the rental and leasing of electric cars can be designed. The representative Fossli said in his post that the government should have done more. Now, I guess it's always going to be like that from the Biggest side that a government could have done more, and that expression is also used when you think you should have done something else. I experienced it largely so that in this case there was something else that one wanted to be done initially than what was done, and I registered some interviews with relatively indignant members of the business committee who even thought that the Minister of Industry was immoral when he did not go into this with an open wallet. My position on the matter of Think, has always been that to the extent that one is going to continue the production of a car in Norway, electrically or otherwise, one must have industrial owners who have both technology and capital. That's what's going on. In my view, we have also made this possible through the measures we have taken in the field of industrial policy and fiscal policy, so that any economic activity can be profitable, given that it is done in a sensible way. We have clearly signaled that to Ford from day one. It has been arranged by Ford, and at my discretion it was the only possible dangerous way to find a solution. Now it's like I've had a meeting with Ford this morning. Nine o'clock. And before the representatives eat their dinner, if they make it into regular noontime, I think the news will have reported that there has been a solution for Ford. I have experienced Ford in the process we have now been through, as a serious industrial partner who has been genuinely concerned with continuing the production of Think Nordic. I see them as liberal in all the consultations they've had with current investors, but they've been busy with two things that, at my discretion, are absolutely crucial: that you have competent owners and owners who have capital. There's every reason to think that Ford found it, and that they could say a little bit more about it later in the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1495	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1511	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1520	Credit notification 2001 provides an assessment of the credit market and the activities of credit and financial institutions in this country. From the previous credit message, there is also room for a report on the IMF work. The activities of the Norwegian Bank, the Swedish Banking Authority, the State Banking Insurance Fund, the State Bank Investment Fund and the Folketrygd Foundation are also mentioned in the message. Not without reason is any of the main focus of this credit message placed on the challenges we face after the financial scandals in the United States. Oslo Børs points out that the Norwegian economic structure is a damper for such matters to have the same scope here in the country. Nevertheless, we have also seen examples of similar things in our country. That is why this omission must be taken seriously. Trust is probably the most important key in this context. If the market is to function well, the information must be trustworthy and unhilda. If these qualities do not characterise the information given about the financial position of the company, this may be done in the long term. have the effect of preventing important access to capital. I note that international work in this area has been reinforced as a result of financial scandals. Our government is active in this work, among others. through participation in committees of the European Commission and in Nordic cooperation. Here the government tries to help with the rules and regulations that can meet the needs that have arisen through the financial scandals in the United States. One interesting aspect is that there is now a greater emphasis on ethical reflections. Setting up audit committees is an example of that. It might be a little bit new, but in my view it's important to think about these questions. No matter how detailed such rules and standards are, there will always be situations in which there will have to be ethical and moral assessments at the end. One of the main conclusions is that the financial scandals in the United States have led to the fact that there is now a clear understanding that there is a need to have frameworks that can, as far as possible, ensure good and subordinated accounting information. Clear standards, good control mechanisms and strict reactions are required in case of manipulation of accounting. In the 2001 Credit Communication, the Government expresses its determination to participate, in particular through effective measures to prevent the development of unethical practices, as we have seen in the United States. On 29 November, the Minister of Finance met to hear about the IMF in the Financial Committee. The view of the IMF's role is divided, but it seems reasonable to agree that the recent developments for the IMF, both as an institution and as an actor, have been positive. The IMF has inter alia: facilitating greater transparency of assessments, decisions and organisational aspects. This helps to reduce misunderstandings and to create greater trust. It also makes it possible for the IMF to review and debate its decisions to a greater extent. Furthermore, it is important to see the work done by the IMF, in conjunction with the functioning of the World Bank. Cooperation between these institutions has improved and is under development, not least in the fight against poverty. The debt cancellation initiative that came in 1996 is an example of this. Reduced liabilities allow larger resources to go to, among other things. health and education. It is also important to bear in mind that both the IMF and the World Bank have signed the UN Millennium Declaration. There they have undertaken to set up their policies in order to achieve the objectives set out in this declaration. Another important task for the IMF is to prevent economic crises in one country or region from spreading and becoming a tack against other countries and regions. The fact that the crisis in Argentina and Brazil has not spread to some extent shows, in many cases, that the IMF has played an important role. It should also be noted that in recent times the IMF has strengthened the monitoring of institutional relations, with emphasis on the governance of the countries and on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The IMF has great influence, and it is therefore important that what is done, at any time, comes up and can be for discussion. The IMF is in the midst of an important and exciting development. Therefore, the credit notification of the IMF report is important, both as information and as a basis for debate on the role and development of the IMF.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1546	There are certain features in today's economic situation that we remember in the late 1980s, nocturnal to. I am thinking about the high debt growth in households, a significant increase in defaulted loans and increasing unemployment. The sum of these relationships are signs that should induce banks and credit institutions to be cautious on the lending side. The fact that the indebtedness in particular shows an increase for households with low incomes, and the fact that there are far more households with high indebtedness today than it was in the late 1980s, is somewhat worrying. Loans to households are generally provided with real estate mortgages. When there's also an increase in loans given with a lending rate over 100 pst. of the property value, it shows that the credit risk is high for part of the loans. We have seen a sharp increase in housing prices in recent years. A fall in housing prices in line with what we saw at the end of the 1980s could cause huge losses to banks. Although banks appear to be able to withstand significant losses before they fall on the statutory minimum core capital requirement, the Progress Party considers that there is cause for concern that the sharp increase in debt growth continues over a long period of time. Very many households will then be vulnerable to strong interest rate increases, falls in housing prices and increased unemployment. There is hardly any reason to call the alarm now, but there is reason to follow developments closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1557	Like the Progress Party, SV has expressed concerns about the signs of an excessive lending growth in Norway. The last inflation report by the Bank of Norway shows that households with the lowest incomes in our society have had a strong increase in the average debt burden. This is particularly serious if many households are receiving a high level of borrowing at a time when unemployment is increasing, where the number of bankruptcies is increasing, and where there are signs of stagnation in the housing market. We think there is reason to warn against this development and to demand caution from the banks. The banks have a great responsibility for not developing a new debt crisis. Unfortunately, we have recently seen many examples of aggressive marketing of consumer loans, which combined with poor surveys of the recipients' private economy provide the basis for new debt victims. A central part of the credit notification is the one dealing with the financial scandal in the United States. During the fall, we also got the Finance Credit case at home, which shows that illegalities and manipulation at the top of big companies are not an American phenomenon alone. The scandal in the United States has revealed that the directors and auditors of the companies have committed clear crimes, but it has also been revealed that the law does not provide sufficient protection against greedy leaders who want to push the stock prices upwards. With this in mind, there is every reason to question the top management models, for example. bonus systems based on stock options, which have become very popular in recent years, but which in many ways provide motivation for this type of manipulation. Many have produced the financial scandals as a moral crisis, a kind of defeat to the moral standard of business. In reality, there is a systemic crisis that has been revealed. Modern capitalism has shifted focus away from value creation, from jobs and contributions to society to stock prices and stock exchange gambling. The efforts of the senior executives are more often and more often not measured in the real value of the work they and the companies are doing, but according to how much they are able to blow up the share prices. It's a symptom of an economy where the speculative element has become bigger and bigger. Today, the dominant part of international financial transactions is stock and currency trade, while only a small part is trade in goods and services. This is a system that leads to speculation, to instability and not surprisingly also to a different attitude from some of the leaders of the companies that are going to operate in such a climate. However, much could have been done in the short term. In our comments, we have mentioned a number of possible measures that would make financial crime more difficult – restrictions on accounting rules, rules that counteract the mixing of roles in the boards and administration of companies, measures that can ensure that analysts do not have financial interests in the companies being analysed. We may have to say a little disappointed that the majority is not offensive enough on these issues to support the proposal of the SV, the Workers' Party and the Central Party to present a separate case to the Stortinge on appropriate measures to combat financial crime. Last week, the IMF’s annual assessment of the Norwegian economy was presented. The report contained advice which clearly indicates the type of economic policy recommended by the IMF. The Councils of Norway included, inter alia: proposals for significant privatisation and tightening up public budgets, measures which, overall, will no doubt ever bring together a political majority in Norway. This is a good illustration of how problematic it is that there is a need to impose conditionality on IMF-supported countries to implement this type of reform, regardless of what kind of policy it would initially be for the majority in these countries. Fortunately, Norway is a rich country that must not follow the IMF’s advice, but in many other parts of the world, the IMF’s policy is a threat to the right of poor countries to self-determination and development. The Fund has been faced with growing criticism in recent years, both from the people of countries affected by crises and from social movements in developing countries, but also from more and more Western economists who believe the IMF's advice is expensive and poor. The IMF is an institution that we have seen promoting international market liberalism and which has progressed towards it, with several of the IMF's best students being those who have been hit hardest by instability and crises in recent years. It implemented the deregulation and liberalisation and the contractual fiscal policy recommended by the IMF has deprived several of these countries’ governance tools that could help to deal with the crises. It is amazing that there is no mention in the credit message of this massive criticism that the IMF has met, and that there is still only the SV and the Central Party that have anything critical to point out when the IMF is mentioned in the Stortinget. The issues addressed in the credit notification are all about how to achieve financial stability and protection against crises and facilitate development. Some believe that the free play of market forces is appropriate for this. SV believes that the latest years of development and what is mentioned in the communication with all the necessary clarity show that what we need instead more to achieve this is economic governance and fair distribution, both nationally and internationally. I would like to address the proposal that SV together with others have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1585	Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1588	The fact that this is not a much more complete suspension of the credit notification is due to the fact that the proceedings in the Committee have been parallel to a hectic budgetary procedure. The themes are important and should have been given more attention, especially this year. The Finance Credit Review has shown a lack of control and mixing of roles that can cost many innocent businesses expensive – businesses that have not suspected that there was a risk of fraud in that system. Sides of the so-called barrel case are also about mixing roles and resource-intensive deck operations used to camouflage camouflage camouflage and what can be far more serious. There are great values of gambling if the necessary borderlines are not made, and those values are much more than money. The proposal promoted by the SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party does not have a majority in the Committee. If there is no majority in the Chamber, and if there are no signals from the Government that there will be a follow-up, as the proposal asks, I do not overlook the need to promote private proposals in order to have a discussion in the Grand Duchy about appropriate measures to combat financial crime. Storing and government cannot be passive when it is revealed such conditions as we have seen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1597	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 1491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1613	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1622	The new age for 2002 does not contain very many surprises and is seen as a relatively curative matter for the Financial Committee to deal with. But I want to point out a couple of relationships anyway. First of all, it is very clear that the desperate need to fine-tune the budgets when they are adopted in due course is being sought when you see at the end of the year what has actually happened in the course of the year. The structural oil-corrected budget deficit, which seems to be very important for the current government, has increased by DKK 3.2 billion since the budget was adopted. I mean to remember a lot of words that fell about a year ago, about the importance of keeping tight. Now we see how tight it really was. In addition, the oil-corrected budget deficit has increased altogether by NOK 16.5 billion. This means that the so-called ‘rule of action’ does not at all prevent significant changes in the budget during the year, if only a little technical ingenious, so as to conceal the use of money. What is a fact is that this use of money has the same effect on the so-called saving of future pension payments – which has begun to become a mantra every time you discuss whether to use any more of the profits or not. The money is in any case used, whether it is generated as part of the rule of action, or as part of the structurally adjusted budget deficit, or not. Then I would like to point out that in particular some charges have relatively significant deviations. For example, the taxes on alcohol and tobacco have been significantly lower than foreseen. It may well have some connection with the growing border trade, and is perhaps a reason why the government now has to look faster in alternative ways to calculate the proceeds of these charges. The same applies to the country's income from the one-off tax on the purchase of cars. There were some of us who said a year ago that there was going to be a fall in these charges as a result of the scarfs in the company car tax. And maybe now you see that these things have a context, and maybe you should also have looked at alternative calculation methods for this. Finally, the majority of the Committee has re-disposaled 135 million. SEK for operating grants to both private and municipal kindergartens as a result of salary-setting in 2002. This is nothing but a follow-up to the same batches said by June at the latest. In June, as a consequence of the budgetary agreement, the four parties expressed in a joint note in the vote on the revision that they were concerned about the settlement of wages and that they would come back to this, and that they explicitly asked the Government to follow this up. The government didn't. Then the same majority in the 2003 State Budget expressed exactly the same concern and asked the Government once again to come back to this in the context of new ageing. Neither did the government. But what this shows is that the four parties were serious when they signed this agreement, and they intend to follow up to the point and point every point in the agreement, whether the government likes it or not. There's been a lot of noise associated with this. And then, as a confession, I want to mention that state councillor Erna Solberg from the pulpit in connection with the handling of case no. 1 today said that it was certain to exceed another 44 million. kr in the case of state asylum recipients. Yes, it's a letter of formal notice. But see it in the context of the jam that has been expressed from the government parties related to a re-disposal of 135 million. kr, and see in the context that the Government proposes to grant NOK 8.9 billion to the Bank of Norway! Then this becomes small money – despite the fact that it means a lot to them. With that, I would recommend the recommendation of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1642	What we are about to consider is the latest proposals for changes to the 2002 state budget. Since the financial committee examined the revised national budget in June 2002, the structural oil-corrected deficit has increased by just under DKK 4.4 billion. This is used by some as an argument for no longer having to be so careful with the budget balance. The claim is that we can use more oil money than the government proposes, because the final accounts are not going to be like the adopted budget. The logic of this argument is hard to follow. Will the State budget break down if it is initially budgeted with a greater use of oil money? No, this is just another attempt to get an argument for spending more money for good purposes, without taking the burden with the consequences this would have for, among other things. competitive industry. Excessive use of oil money must be paid in some way. For the Workers' Party, it is important that it is not the employees who have to pay, in the form of high interest rates and increased unemployment. We are therefore committed to using the State budget as an active tool in economic policy, as far as possible. There has been disagreement about only one point in the new age, i.e. the kindergartens. The majority are concerned with ensuring that kindergartens have an economic situation in which they can live. Therefore, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre agree to pay 135 million. kr in exceptional operating grants to kindergartens in 2002. This money has already been allocated to the kindergarten chapter. It's an estimated smaller consumption of about 180 million. kr on the kindergarten chapter for 2002. The Ministry of Finance will use this money to cover the additional consumption of 217 million. kr on the cash support chapter. The majority do not agree with this. The decision taken today is a clear instruction to the Government to pay 135 million. kr to kindergartens before New Year’s. We're aware it's not much time. The majority would actually make this appropriation transferable, so that the money could be paid in January if the department did not pay it before the New Year. But the Minister of Finance wrote in a letter to the Right: ‘The transferability of an estimate is not meaningful.’ It goes on to say: ‘This would undermine the very basic idea of the allocation regulation for an estimate and would seriously weaken the control of expenditure in the budget.’ It is a bit funny that the Ministry of Finance writes this, since the same department proposed the following decision V in St.prp. No 30 for 1998-99: ‘The financial envelope agrees that the allocation of the State budget for 1998 under Chapter 947 Grants for employment of seafarers, Item 70 Grants, estimate appropriations, are to be carried over with the addition of the keyword ‘can be transferred’.’ It may seem that the Ministry considers it appropriate to make an estimate available as long as the proposal comes from the Ministry itself. I think the government is wise to realize that the bulk of the population intends to ensure the implementation of the kindergarten reform, with or without the government as a co-player. We've repeatedly encouraged the Government to become part of the kindergarten alliance. The question is: do not government parties want more and cheaper kindergartens? I think it is necessary to remember the Christian People's Party election vows from August 6, 2001, where they write: ‘A nursery place should cost less than $1,500 per month. The aim of the KrF is that by 2003 there will be a children's gardening space for all those who want it.» Furthermore, I would like to refer to the Sem Declaration, where it says: ‘Co-operation management will: – work for full child care coverage by 2003’.» The government parties should really be cheering and not grumbling about the opposition helping them to fulfill their own child hail lifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1688	The effusion is largely characterised by broad consensus. Some estimates have changed over the year, and there has been a thorough explanation of the recent ageing process. I also refer to the first, excellent half of Tore Nordtun's contributions on the question of the use of oil revenues and the way we process the budget. On the other hand, what has aroused debate is the proposal by a majority that we should spend 135 million. in the last days of December to compensate the kindergartens for an expensive wage settlement. Let me first stress that this is not about the willingness to bet on kindergartens. There is broad consensus in the Storting on the need to ensure full childcare coverage, and there is broad consensus on the goal of reducing parental pay. That's why the budget agreement between the Progress Party and the government parties gave almost NOK 2 billion more to the kindergartens next year. What is at the heart of what should be discussed today is how to allocate 135 million. kr more for kindergartens this year. Let me remind you that it is hardly a week since we treated the nursery budget. If you were to prevent an increase in the nursery rates to next year, you could have granted the money. But instead, you choose the new age and give the money from a pot where there is no more money. And it is strange, with all due respect, that the representative Tore Nordtun seems surprised to see the chapter on kindergartens in connection with the cash support chapter. It is a premise in the budget for this year, as it has done in the past. I am also surprised that the Workers' Party makes a point of not having been informed that there is probably an additional consumption of cash support. If you turn in the large pile of letters you have sent to the department, and not least in replies you have received back, you will see that as early as the end of May, the Workers' Group was informed that there was probably an additional consumption of cash support. This has been like a premise all along. When we deal with this matter, it is because it is not the first time that a majority violates the rules on appropriations and is in line with Storting's own rules of procedure. Only in the last few weeks have we seen it in three examples. We saw that when a majority changed the law on the taxation of the employer's paid nursery place, without covering it, we saw it when it was decided to regulate the pension, where the Constitutional Office of the Stortinge stated that the Stortinge had acted contrary to the Stortinge's rules of procedure, and we see it again when you grant money from a pot it is not money in. As I said, this is not a question of willingness to bet on kindergartens, because we could also be in a discussion about this. Tore Nordtun is not right to say that, over and over again, government parties have been invited to a discussion. You haven't done that at all, and at least not in this round. If dialogue were desired and solutions were sought, it would also be possible. Otherwise, I assume that the President will inform the Storting about how to deal with this matter in relation to the Storting's own rules. Let me just remind you that, on previous occasions, we have explicitly waived the eligibility rules during voting to indicate that a decision is being taken that is contrary to the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1703	Let me comment on two things in today's setting. The first goes on the oil-corrected deficit, which has increased by NOK 16.5 billion over the year, for explainable and also understandable reasons – let me not go into it. What's most important in this is the lesson you can draw every time you discuss the aged budget. It's that you have an overfocus on this being some kind of science, that there's an exact amount that you can use within what's responsible. All over this is defined as irresponsible. In that way, this document is a blatant example of not being the case. From SV's point of view, there is no goal that we should spend a lot of money. It's a goal to spend the money correctly. We have also not spent more money in our alternative budget than the Government has recommended to Stortinget. And that's wise. That means you have to give priority. Policy is to give priority to what is thought to be the most important. But if you look at this document against what is the general political rhetoric, and not least against that department and government spends a lot of time inculcating the Stortinget and the Norwegian people, this is obviously not right. Fortunately, the space for action in the economy is much larger than the individual later that. Let it be quite clear from the SV's side that we think it is wise to be withheld from the use of money, and that the money you spend should be used correctly. But nevertheless, there is something in this reasoning that is obviously hollow. It's more rhetorical than science, and it might be right to inform the Storting about. Let me then comment on another side of this, and that's what goes into kindergarten. I think the government makes sense that you now realize that the bulk of the population once again shows that we're serious. The first time what is being debated today came up, was in the revised budget, where we already said that we wanted a mention of this in the state budget, because we knew that the wage costs in the kindergarten sector had become very high. We feared that this could break our legs under what Mr. Sanner is the Storting's broad will to bet on more and cheaper kindergartens. This did not come into the state budget for some strange reason. That's why the majority parties at this point felt the need to repeat it. We explicitly asked that the department provide a statement of this in the newly aged budget. There is not a single word about this, despite the fact that this decision happened just a few weeks ago. Therefore, it must not come as a surprise to the government parties that these four parties were actually meant to, and seriously meant, when the payroll was so expensive, that one had to try to find a sensible solution in the Storting. This sensible solution has been found by Stortinget, simply by showing that it's a smaller consumption. It may be that part of the smaller consumption is going to receive cash support, but it is not that all children who have the opportunity to go to kindergarten are automatically receiving cash support. And how this increase in the cash support chapter could be greater than the reduction in the nursery chapter, to me, is completely incomprehensible. But it is also that even though the Ministry now informs in a letter to the SV High School that only 7 000 kindergartens are being built, and not 10,000, with which the Stortinget has budgeted, we may be faced with a situation where the figure 7 000 is too optimistic. In any case, it is reported to us from those who build kindergartens in Norway, the municipalities and the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager that perhaps even 5,000 are not reached. In that case, it would mean that despite the fictional calculation of the department, we might be operating with as many as 2,000 places in addition to those unfortunately not being built. That means that the grip the Storting does, and the instruction the Government now receives, is serious on the SV side and on the side of the Storing plurality. I have also seen in the newspapers that it is speculated by the Department whether this is a decision that comes so late in the year that it will not be effective in 2002. Let me just say very clearly that we believe that this should be implemented in 2002. Of course, if it is difficult for practical or technical reasons to achieve this before New Year’s Eve, there is nothing wrong with spending some time in the new year. This is a view that I know that the majority parties share – just so that this signal is given – so that the department does not try to hide behind some technical regulation rule that says that it is not explicit that the allocation is made transferable. However, if there are technical or practical reasons for this, the Department must of course be given the opportunity to use the first weeks of the new year to get this decision in place. I believe that the lesson you can learn from this, and it is a lesson that the Government is going to take inwards, and which is underlined by the representatives of Siv Jensen and Tore Nordtun, and now also from my side, is that the grand-garden agreement has been confirmed a number of times, will be implemented – it is with or without the will of the Department and the Government. I think that we're there now, and that the department is doing well to stop training and make uncertainties about this, because there are many hundreds of thousands of children and parents out in the Norwegian community who have the benefit of this. This is a fantastic decision for many. That means that now is the time for you to put down your weapons. Don't you dare!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1725	It is not surprising that this attitude to sum up the 2002 State budget is so little mentioned. The government and the majority do not want to pay particular attention to the fact that the budget balance was not so important anyway. Here it is noted that the transfer from the oil fund is increased by NOK 16 billion, without dwelling on the impact of such increased and unassigned oil money use. I think that finding is revealing in relation to the main focus of months on the only sound point of balance that is regulated by action. Here it is briefed in tiny, almost invisible letters that 20 new state billions outside the oil fund are to be invested in shares abroad. I see that as a broken response to the little criticism of the huge loss of the oil fund that had to be recorded in 2002. As far as I remember, it's been 120 billion dollars since May this year. It is now reported that Norway’s Bank has also lost much of its foreign reserve content in the same way. Nearly $10 billion has to be provided as compensation. Today's Business has calculated that the losses on foreign reserve shares have been 30 pst. this year, while placement in interest rate papers had a positive return of 8.6 pst. The fact that in this situation there was a clear signal from the Ministry that the share could be increased from 20 to 40 pst. in the long-term investment portfolio of foreign reserve assets, is strange. Additional NOK 20 billion invested in shares would have meant a loss of NOK 6 billion this year. The centre party disagrees with such a strategy as has been chosen for the oil fund. The Centre Party considers recent experience to be counterproductive, which is to emphasise lower risks than the maximum potential for profit. And 8.6 pst. the positive gain is good. The balancing proposition, and questions raised, reveal more about the action-ruled detours used in our budgetary work. Let's fill it in with 800 million. oil crowns to the equity of the NSB and the Post, which will make it easier for them to pay $2.2 billion common funds to the Pension Fund in 2003, in order for the budgets of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Government Parties to go together with the only sound budgetary balance. Statements, both written and oral, from the companies clearly tell how poor such budgetary procedures are. From the NSB, even questions have been asked about whether the owner has the opportunity to charge such an additional pension payment. Another piece of art is smaller, but even clearer. The tax administration's IT projects will receive 35 million. kr extra this year, for transfer to 2003. These shall replace the 40 million with which the same budget line was cut in the budget agreement. The discussion of what is honest and real budgeting will continue. The rule of action is a harmful coercion that the Workers' Party and the Government are trying to get out of. The centre will allow us to spend a little more oil money when such additional consumption can bring less pressure to the economy by freeing labour, by exploiting free capacity in some sectors, and by reducing public expenditure in the long term. The Pension Decision is referred to as one of the decisions taken on the edge of the provisions of the Action Rule. The size has decided that 500 million. kr shall be paid in 2003 without being budgeted. A robust majority agreed that the appropriations would have been included, but that would have been a different budget balance. A robust majority have promised that more money will come to school and care for the elderly — unfortunately, only after many schools have been closed and many teachers have quit. But the money will come. The same applies to health establishments. In practice, the size has determined a level of activity that costs billions in addition to what is budgeted. According to the Department, paying the bills over a government-guaranteed operating loan gives less pressure to the economy than if the money was granted. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get The central party believes that unrealistic budgeting means that resources are being wasted, for example: by selecting short-term solutions, by neglecting prevention and by spending time at cutting-off meetings. The budget will be broken down unless it is realistically budgeted. The last was a kind comment to Tore Nordtun. The child care allowance in this setting is the result of a lack of follow-up by the Government. The majority of the day-care centre agreement has long asked for an overview of the consequences of wage settlement. The Ministry prefers to wait until this can be indicated in the nearest krona. It's been unnecessary. At the same time, there has been agreement — probably unanimity — that it is unfortunate that the parental payment has to be increased or kindergartens closed at a time when everyone is promised cheaper kindergartens and space for more. The decision to increase the nursery allowance for 2002 by 135 million. kr is now getting caught. The centre party wants the money to be paid out now. But if the two days over the New Year's are coming, there's no big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1753	Since it's Christmas, maybe I'll start by saying dear President. In the new-age ratio, the structural and oil-corrected deficit in the current year is now estimated to be some higher than estimated in the revised 2002 national budget, which was the last time we reported to the Stortinget. There is something higher than estimated also in the national budget in the autumn. This is mainly due to the fact that tax revenue and net interest income are now estimated at a lower level and that the payment of lump sums is estimated at a higher level. However, the actual underlying growth in government budget expenditure is kept unchanged, at 2.5 p.m., from the revised national budget. In its proposal for the rebalancing of the State budget, the Government has stressed the need to avoid weakening the budgetary balance in addition to that resulting from new estimates, and I stress that it is currently estimated. I have noticed that the parties that are opposed to the rule of action, or that have always been so, in the financial committee's position, use the uncertainty associated with the estimates of the government budget as an argument to weaken the budget balance when the Storting adopts next year's budget for the harvest. In its utmost consistency, this argument means that it does not matter to establish a framework for the budget because the estimates for many budget lines are uncertain in any case. This is obviously wrong, and I have to take a strong distance from such an attitude towards the state budget as a governance tool in the economy. Both the state, municipalities, enterprises and households must live with uncertainty, but for that reason one cannot fail to budget and set a framework for their activities. Moreover, the existence of uncertainty cannot in itself justify a deterioration in the budgetary balance when the Storting adopts the budget for the autumn. Government income and expenditure have a real impact on the economy regardless of the degree of uncertainty associated with the estimates. I note that the four parties in the Stortinge behind the so-called nursery agreement in the financial committee's position are proposing further appropriations for the day-to-day nursery in the current year without any interference in other areas. The proposal will increase the expenditure of the State budget and reduce the budget balance by 135 million. kr. The appropriations for cash and family allowances shall be treated as a whole. This has been the rule under this government, as under the previous governments. The keyword ‘useable under’ for the two entries has therefore been mutually added. The Ministry of Finance, in reply to questions, has provided a detailed explanation of the budget appropriations for cash support and child care grants in the current year. It is clear from this statement that overall there is no lower consumption for these two items. In spite of this, the four lots behind the proposal require the availability of available funds. It is therefore appropriate that the Storting should be able to take a decision on a failed basis. According to the majority’s proposal, the exceptional grant is to be paid in 2002. In my letter to the Financial Committee, I have stated that it is not practicable to pay the funds in the current year. However, I take note that the majority of the Storting wants such an exceptional grant, and will facilitate payment as soon as practicable in 2003. I was informed this morning by the Ministry of Children and Family that they expect this to happen during January – that it may be booked in the kindergartens in question during January. I would like to stress that such an exceptional grant will weaken the budgetary balance next year by 135 million. kr. The government will then have to come back with proposals for adjusted appropriations for operating grants and proposals for the recovery of additional expenditure in the context of the revised national budget for 2003. Finally, since the theme has been indirectly affected by so many speakers, let me take with me to the Minister of Administration the broad support there is for more moderate wage settlement in the public sector next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1778	The Labour Party is concerned that we should be tidy in the budgetary context, and that is what we are if there is room for us to be. When the Council of State says that the majority will decide on a failed basis, I have to say that I wonder about it, based on the questions that have been asked – and I am thinking about the nursery situation and the number of those who are going to receive cash support, given in the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs's budget, which is now in response to the Committee and to the Labour Party. I have to say that with as big a change as it is here, with over 7 000, there are more than the size that does things on a slightly failed basis. I'm just saying that this is a typo. It seems to me to be special, too, when the Storting has managed this budget that was presented, with the figures in the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. There is a large number of people who want to do what is necessary in order for private and municipal kindergartens not to increase their prices too much. We've been telling that clearly for a long time, and the Storting and the Government have been very aware of that, and the Government has been in doubt about it. I am pleased that the Council of State in its speech today took note of the tone that he made, in view of the fact that he takes note of the decision being made, and does not lay down on this high vocal ladder or on anything else, as Jan Tore Sanner does. It is strange that the Government itself [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1789	It was a pity that the joy was expressed overtime, but nevertheless.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1792	There are so many pleasures in life. I cannot say more about the estimates we have for the consumption of these two items than what I have said in my post. Its further out in a year to come, its safer becomes the predictions of consumption. And this is the best knowledge available today. That's what a government council can answer the Storting when he's asked. I note that a majority has always said from there, but I think I have to say that the most correct thing in relation to Storting's own allocation regulations would have been to increase the budget of the Ministry of Children and Family in 2003 by the amount requested. Then you can find the impression for it at your discretion. I note that this did not happen. We have now arranged for a way of doing this, which I believe is also in line with the Storting budget regulations, which state that the budget for the year should contain the best possible estimate of the expenditure expected. Now I register that a majority wants a higher consumption, specified at 135 million. kr, divided according to what is in the setting. I'll follow up on that. I also believe that this is in line with Storting's own regulations, which must be said to be an advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1803	I am pleased to note that the Council of State will facilitate the payment of the 135 million. kr will happen as quickly as possible, in that case during the month of January. That's good. But what I reacted to was the statements from the Council of State that this would be part of the 2003 budget, and that the Government would come back to this in the context of the revised budget for 2003. I understand that little, because this is the recent ageing of the 2002 budget. On a number of other estimates in the budget, there has been an increase in consumption, for example on cash support. You don't know that until the end of the year. As a result, the 2002 budget is aged, based on the reality of the budget adopted in its time. Then why is it that you have to do a special number of these 135 million? Do you really want to delete this item? I could imagine getting the Council of State to elaborate on that. And then I just want to remind Per-Kristian Foss that he, as a big-time representative a few years ago, was with the Progress Party and other parties in a majority and allocated $1 billion for the treatment of patients abroad. It happened at exactly the same time of the year as now. At that time, Per-Kristian Foss had a lot and very good explanation as to why it could be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1812	The good answer to that is that then Stortinget made an explicit exception to his own allocation regulations and did so. I'll refer you to Mr. Sanner's post. The consumption of the item, which applied to foreign treatment in the regional hospitals, was accounted for the year in which it was used. The answer to the question of which budget it belongs to is as simple as that it essentially belongs to the budget in which it is used. And I read it so that the majority wants this to have an impact on the real economy in 2003. For this reason, the budget for 2003 is governed by the Financial Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1819	Let me inform the Council of State that he has misunderstood. This is money that may be paid out in 2003 for practical reasons, but it is money spent in 2002, and they belong to the 2002 budget, as is clear from the comment in the vote, and of course it is also clear that this is a new phase for the 2002 budget year. To the extent that the Council of State has misunderstood what the majority of population wants, it is therefore right for me to state that the majority of population does not see this as a 2003 allocation at all. In this way it would have been right, as the Council of State suggested in its statement, to make this part of the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget for next year. It is not, for the simple reason, that this is an additional consumption in 2002 for kindergartens, which is, of course, covered by the 2002 budget. This means that when the accounts are to be settled, when the Storting is presented to the government in 2002, it will be clear how the development has been both in the cash support chapter and in the nursery chapter. In this way I expect the department to find a practical solution. That means that I think it is natural that the Council of State, in the case that the Stortinget has explicitly asked to be presented in mid-March 2003, also mentions this point. This does not mean, however, that this should be included in the revised budget for 2003. In that case, it would be contrary to the wishes of the majority of the population. Let me also say that I think the approach the Council of State now had in its intervention, in general, is better than he's had in a while. I appreciate that. This may indicate that he has now realized that this is actually a reality, will become a reality, and that one can no longer try to ignore the will of the Greatness. I think the Council of State is wise to do that in the extension of this as well. That means that cooperation on this can be less conflicty, not to the delight of the bigopposition or the majority in this matter, but to the delight of the many hundreds of thousands who depend on the decisions we make. That's essentially why we've done what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1828	That's the line change. No, it's not. State Council Per-Kristian Foss must be allowed to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1831	I guess it's polite to answer the replicator's challenges. I can only say so that these expenses will be accounted for according to the rules of the country the year in which they are consumed. Something else would be contrary to the rules laid down by the Storting, both for budgeting and for accounting purposes. I can promise that they will appear in the 2003 accounts because they will be paid in 2003. I understand that they will have an effect on parental payment in 2003, of course. When it comes to meeting kindergarten challenges from the Storting, the Government has done so to the best of its ability, among other things. in the budget for the following year, by adding a record amount to the nursery budget. But it's with kindergarten bets like it's with other agreements. I remember from the previous period when it was for example. the agreement with the Progress Party, the Right and the then Government Parties on cash support. It was an ambitious agreement and plan, and it was covered in crowns for crowns – painful, but still – in all budgets during the period. The same is true of nursery expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1840	Now the line chord shift is over. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1845	Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss just said that changes in estimates have no significance in the economy, but he added – and that is quite right – that real expenditure increases or other changes in the budget have a ‘real impact’ on the economy. What surprises me then is that when we witness changes outside this house – that it has calculated less than any estimated – it leads to a dramatic, real change in the economy in terms of increased electricity prices. It is exactly the same effect as an increase in taxes. There is a withdrawal of purchasing power to anything other than electricity. Of course, when the Government presents its national budget, estimates are made of what the economy can withstand in terms of demand. It is precisely demand that governs the entire budgetary policy of the current government. When we actually have opportunities in Stortingen to try to keep the assumptions underlying the national budget, it's amazing that the other parties won't be involved. I will be able to address my suggestions in this matter, proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox They intend to empower the Government to either reduce or completely eliminate the electricity charge from 1 December of this year to 1 June of next year, and to reduce or eliminate the VAT on electricity during that period, so that it might be possible to achieve what was required by the national budget. We hear from the Government, and also from the Bank of Norway from time to time, that it is very important to keep these demand conditions and not spend more money now than what is in the budget, because it will indirectly increase demand. When there is an increase in the electricity price that may dramatically increase household expenditure, in the same way as an increase in taxes or an increase in VAT, why should one not then be able to compensate for it when we have a significant financial surplus in the country? It's totally incomprehensible to me – and I think too much of the Norwegian people –! It would have been interesting if the Minister of Finance could explain why it is so wrong to try to keep the assumptions for people’s purchasing power that the Government itself has planned for it to be in 2003. When the weather devastates purchasing power, why can we not compensate for the weather devastate by reducing, removing, if necessary, the electricity charge and the value added tax on electricity in the period up to spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1854	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1858	In last year's debate with the same headline, there were also small amounts of money we talked about. At that time, the Church, Education and Research Committee had decided that there was a political will to increase the grant share, and they also granted something more to student homes. The government and the finance minister disagreed as to whether it was possible to do so in the manner to which it was corrected in this case. Today there has been the nursery allowance where the issue has been the same, the debate has been about. I want to get back to the rather large numbers, which are about stock placements within what the Bank of Norway has of foreign reserve assets. Today's Businesses have calculated that there is an extra $20 billion that is now going to be on the stock market. The journalists have provided figures that show that if the 20 billion kroner had been in the stock market from the time they sent letters from the Bank of Norway to today, the loss of the 20 billion kroner would have been NOK 6 billion compared to if they had now been in the same period and “earned” NOK 1.6 billion. So the difference from this is 7.6 billion in those months this year, if you're going to believe the numbers that are presented here. The question is whether we have learned something from what has now happened, whether we believe that our future pension funds, of which this is part, should be placed at the highest risk, or whether they should be placed at a slightly lower risk. The orientation to this effect for the Stortinget has been presented in the national budget under the section on the regional location of the oil fund. There's two or three lines about it, and then it's a little bit clearer in the ejaculation. It says this is about approx. 10 billion kroner that Norway's Bank must be added to because one has actually suffered such losses on the stock market. Then it was noticed, but it is not mentioned by several speakers today. I would like the Council of State to comment on whether it is not worth carrying out a risk assessment in the Ministry, which is stated in writing and clearly in the national budget in connection with the granting of such an authorisation to the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1869	On the last question, I just have to answer that the basic philosophy behind the investment strategy chosen for the petroleum fund, with the broad support of the Stortinget, is not to try to change strategic choices, such as: the share may be an example of, from time to time, because the timing of such decisions is considered particularly favourable. The attempt to try to hit peaks and bottoms in the market has proved very difficult and risky. It is the government's view that trying to reduce the share now, after a large fall in the stock markets, could negatively affect the expected return of the petroleum fund. The representative Hagen repeated me this way: changed estimates have no impact on the economy. That's not what I said in my post. Of course, changes in estimates have an impact on the economy, but they do not invalidate the fact that if expenditure growth in the adopted budget for 2002, for example, had been 10 billion kroner higher, it would have come at the top of the estimates that are now going in the negative direction. The impact of the economy will be there in any case, but that does not prevent the need to have a certain framework for what is done in budgets. This is also practised by enterprises, although their sales income forecasts, for example: can vary from year to year, and really do. First of all, I want to say that the energy market in Norway is a free market after and after, it has a broad majority in Stortinget put itself behind and expressed a very positive opinion. Fortunately, it also includes the Progress Party. The representative, Hagen, now speaks about, is a form of price regulation linked to the government being empowered to amend the VAT and electricity tax decisions of the Stortinget at the time we wanted to do so. It is a relatively, to say the least, very careful, drastic surrender of the Grand Duchy's right to adopt taxes and taxes. I must say that is very far-reaching, but I shall not express myself more strongly on it. In addition to that, I think it would also be unfortunate for the market to imagine that charges would be used to prevent consumers from noticing the impact of market reactions when prices rise or when prices fall. At least I've read some market economy that shows that this would be a relatively special idea, to put it that way, even in the case of an electricity market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1883	So, unlike the Minister of Finance, we're much more concerned about the impact on most people. You can discuss markets and markets work. We're fully aware of that. But at the top of the power prices, the charges come, and that's something that now hurts most people. This is because it has the same effect as if you had increased VAT or if you had increased a tax that covers almost all of this country. We know that there are assumptions in the national budget. Then I would have thought that the government had an interest in trying to hold on to these basic assumptions for people's purchasing power, which is what also governs taxes and taxes. Yes, it is that we are willing to renounce some power and transfer it to the Government for a limited period of six months, but that authority is only about reducing or removing charges, it is not going to increase them. I assume that the Minister of Finance is aware that there is a difference between the two things. Maintaining the defined demand framework has been essential for the entire economic debate in the autumn. The high electricity price can now have an effect that can amount to several thousand kroner for households, a far stronger effect than the many taxes and charges that have been wrangled in this house. I just note that we disagree. You don't want to use our good state economy to help the population reduce its electricity costs. I'm just going to find out that this is it. But I have another observation, which perhaps the Minister of Finance could also say something about: Before the last interest meeting in the Bank of Norway, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister went out violently in many debates and said: we have to pursue a policy that helps us to get a reduced interest rate and thus a weakened dollar rate. Almost every time the prime minister was in TV debates, he connected it that if we just had the interest rate down, we also had a deterioration in the price of the crown, which would strengthen the competitiveness of the companies. Can the Minister of Finance explain why the crown has strengthened further after we received a reduction in interest rates — especially against dollars, but generally strengthened? We have not experienced the deterioration that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister promised the Norwegian people for Christmas if the Norwegian Bank chose to lower the interest rate. The Bank of Norway has lowered its interest rate. But what about the other part that you were very high on the track with? I myself participated in many debates on the TV route, and every time it was to get a different crown price to help the Norwegian industry, which was also a reason. Where is the impairment of the crown that is promised as a direct effect of lowering the interest rate? I just want to remind you that the Progress Party has said over and over again that there is no direct connection at all – here you throw blues in the eyes of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1896	The representative, Hagen, asked me about predictions for the krone price. That is beyond what a finance ministry can give in a situation where we have an open, international and global economy, and where we conduct a monetary policy established, as the Stortinget has done, with broad support also from the Progress Party. I can't show you everything that's been said on the TV route. It may be the other way around, but I'm pointing out that in my article in the financial debate, I actually had a little problem with the relationship between interest rates and interest rates. I had the reasoning that Hagen very briefly concluded by saying, that the relationship is there, but there is no absolute connection in a market that we know also takes into account other factors, among other things. the overall pressure in the Norwegian economy. There may be other factors in the international market that affect the price of the crown. That is why I have also used the expression on every occasion: the budget contributes to a reduction in the pressure on interest and the exchange rate. I stand by that. In the final debate on power prices, I just want to say the following: The government does not issue forecasts for goods or services traded in a free market, an example of that is the power price. It is possible that this was done in ancient days in Eastern European countries, and we prefer not to talk too much about that time now. In recent times, no such forecasts have been made in any Western country for prices determined in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1905	It is when the Council of State comes up with the kind of statements from the Chair that he is asking us to extend this debate. So no one here has mentioned that we're going back to the times that the Council of State just referred to. However, the consequence of the increase in the electricity price is a significant increase in government revenue, both from VAT and from the levy on energy. That's the consequence! And so here you've been operating with a very clear estimate of how much you expect to bring into the treasury over the next year in these charging areas. That's what this is all about. That is what the proposal is about. That's what the representative Hagen has been problematizing. And it would have been an advantage for the debate and the level of substance if the Council of State had managed to stick to it, instead of going far beyond the scope of what it was all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1910	In response to the Committee, the Ministry of Finance has said that there is no reason to assume that increased electricity prices and, as a result, increased electricity tax revenue and VAT revenue increase the total tax revenue. It has been shown in the past that when people use more of one product and pay VAT for it, you would like to use a little less of other goods for which you also pay VAT. The income of power companies is such that some pay higher taxes as a result of changes in electricity prices, while others pay lower taxes. It would have been nice if you could have warned that there was 10 billion kroner extra ready for revision, or something like that, but unfortunately the experience with forecasts and estimates of that type does not indicate that you can count on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1915	Others have not asked for the word on case 15. [[Fotation, see page 1492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1932	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1949	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1966	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e1983	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2000	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2017	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2035	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2052	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2069	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2086	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2103	No one has asked for the word [[Fotation, see page 1498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2111	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e2963	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative Ola T. Heggem, on behalf of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of a future organisation for State Forest SF, SIVA SF, Statnett SF and ENOVA SF that enables these companies to continue to work on condition that the contents of the State Enterprise Act § 4 and Sections 51 and 53 become applicable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e3831	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government to withdraw the award of the 40 breeding concessions.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e3856	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Grethe Fossli, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2 by Mr Hedstrom, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. Three, from the Center Party, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reverse the decision on the location of the regional links of the Food Authority so that:1. The Finnish Regional Office is located in Kautokeino.2. The Regional Office of Troms shall be located in Harstad.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e3889	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reverse the decision on the location of the regional links of the Food Authority so that:1. The Regional Office of Troms and Finnmark is located in Harstad.2. The Regional Office of Nord-Trøndelag, Süd-Trøndelag and Møre and Romesdal are located in Trondheim.3. The Regional Office of Telemark, Vestfold and Buskerud shall be located in Drammen.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e3916	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Regional Office of Troms and Finnmark is located in Harstad’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e3931	You should now vote on the option. I and III have been converted into transmission proposals. In amended form: ‘I It is recommended that the Government ensure that employees of laboratories affected by the establishment of the new Food Safety Authority are covered by the rules for transfer of activities under Section 73 of the Environmental Protection Act.» III sounds in modified form: ‘III It is recommended that the Government ensure the best possible level of preparedness by ensuring that the number of local offices in the new Food Safety Authority remains at an interval of between 70 and 90 units.» The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It'll be over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e3957	The President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e3983	The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4027	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 9 December 2002. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1) The Government is asking the Government to carry out an impact assessment of a coastal fleet structural fund in relation to the geographical distribution effect and consistency of the landing pattern.2) The Government is asking the Government to examine as soon as possible the possibility of an extended coastal fleet quota scheme.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4049	There is a vote on the proposal by the Landfill Representative Øystein Hedstrom, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 9 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Storting an investigation into the introduction of negotiable fishing quotas in connection with the notified structural notification of the fishing fleet.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4067	During the debate, Mr Gedrem put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:11 [[2002-2003]] There will be a vote on I first in the vote and then there will be a vote between II in the vote and the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4107	The centre party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4120	During the debate, Mr Bjørlo Lysbakken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case for appropriate measures to combat financial crime, in relation to the 2002 Credit Communication. The case is based, inter alia, on the review in St.meld. [[2002-2003]] No 8 Credit notification 2001 and its treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4149	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size consents to the Government’s power to reduce or eliminate the electricity charge in the period from 1 December 2002 to 1 June 2003 in order to contribute to a electricity price in accordance with the Government’s own assumptions in the 2003 national budget.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size consents to the Government’s power to reduce or eliminate VAT on electricity in the period from 1 December 2002 to 1 June 2003 in order to contribute to a electricity price in accordance with the Government’s own assumptions in the 2003 national budget.’» Ranveig Frøiland – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4164	In view of the budgetary debate we have just had, these are strange proposals. The Labour Party has submitted its proposals, which will be dealt with in the new year together with the other different proposals for electricity. So I want the Labour Party's group to vote against these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e4171	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5642	Jan Tore Sanner has asked the President to give an explanation if there is to be a vote on this proposal. The explanation shall be as to whether the proposal is in breach of Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure and of the Rules of Procedure. In the President's view, there are good reasons to think both of one and of the other, and after a majority vote has taken place and a relatively large debate has been concluded, it is completely impossible for the President to distinguish on this issue. The President is therefore of the opinion that it would not be contrary either to Section 19 or to the eligibility rules if we voted against this proposal here and now. The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5662	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend broadcasting regulations to allow for shorter advertising breaks in feature films, while maintaining the current regime of advertising in interruptions lasting at least 20 minutes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5680	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend broadcasting regulations in order to allow advertising interruptions in religious programmes/life-vision channels.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5698	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 16 December 2002: «The Government asks the repeal of the Broadcasting Regulation §3-3 to allow advertising spots to be opened on Friday, Easter Day, Pentecost 1st and Christmas 1st.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5716	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate a probationary system with political publicity on local television in the municipal and county elections in 2003.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5734	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 16 December 2002: «The Government asks the Government to amend Section 4-9 of the Broadcasting Regulation so that films with normal sexual activity can be shown without wired on Norwegian cable networks.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5753	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Broadcasting Act so that the obligation to communicate also covers wireless distribution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5771	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess open accounts in the NRK in order to improve the basis of the Storting as an active owner to ensure its operation and to set the broadcasting fee at the appropriate level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5789	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the United Kingdom with a report on the experience of the use of legislation and regulations for EPGs in the United Kingdom and to assess the appropriateness of the corresponding legislation and regulations in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5807	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Broadcasting Act so that it is not permitted to interrupt feature films or documentaries with advertising.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5825	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Telecommunication and Broadcasting Act with a view to the clean-up of responsibilities in order to keep content and distribution separate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5843	There is a vote on the proposal by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the Competition Act and other laws regulating the media area maintain and maintain the development of the Stortinget at all times.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-19.ana.ud3e5952	Before the meeting ends, the President on behalf of the Presidency will be allowed to wish everyone a really good and peaceful Christmas, and hope everyone will relax and come back rest!
