ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e28	The representative of Øystein Djupedal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The so-called alternate of the state of Troms, Arne Bergland, has taken the seat. The representative of John I. Alvheim will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e41	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I have two proposals to submit to the Stortinget. It is proposed to ask the Government to amend the licensing regulation for medical students and health professionals over 75 years of age so that older doctors who are able to carry out their profession properly are licensed irrespective of the extent or nature of their activities. And there's a proposal to ask the government to place the approval authority for crew plans at the country's nursing home to the Health Directorate, so that nursing nursing home residents are guaranteed a professionally sound level of staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e50	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e53	On behalf of Lena Jensen, Inge Ryan and myself, I would like to make a proposal to introduce a maximum travel time limit from home to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e58	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e61	On behalf of the major representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to make proposals for a separate police certificate for all those who are working with minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e66	The representative of May Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e69	On behalf of Lena Jensen, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself I will present the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the State of Children and the Ministry of the Family assume full responsibility for the financing of crisis centres and that the State organise grants through the House Bank for the construction of new centres. This is because today’s financing of crisis centres is not predictable for operations, and because there is a need for new establishment and rehabilitation of centres with poor standards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e78	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e81	On behalf of myself, I suggest that the Evjemo camp be transferred as soon as possible to the municipality of Evje and Hornne with a maintenance fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e109	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar City Council Svein Ludvigsen State Council Erna Solberg The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e128	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. The newspaper announced on Monday that Swedish Coop and ICA would stop buying Norwegian cod because the species is threatened by overfishing. The evening post and the VG have both expressed concerns about the Norwegian administration of the cod at the place of tenure this week. The council itself has in letters to me said that the stock of cod is no good news. But it's time to get over from expressing concern to actually act. In recent years, the Norwegian Arctic cod quota has been twice as high as recommended by the researchers. We point out that lack of openness in the negotiations may be one of the reasons for this, because the public will not be able to put pressure on the negotiators. I have previously challenged the Council of State on what kind of reforms he is willing to undertake in relation to the negotiations, and I would like to ask the Council of State once again: is it up to the Council of State to take the Stortinge on board in connection with the negotiations of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e137	I register the actions and proposals that have come from the Swedish team, from the consumer team and from environmental organisations. This is linked to a minimum dimension of 40 cm. Then I want to remind you that the minimum cod in the Barents Sea is actually 47 cm, so here we have an administration that takes care of minimum targets in a completely different way from what is practised in the Baltic Sea. In this way there is no reason to fear that this will go beyond cod caught in the Barents Sea. With regard to population and possibly endangered species, I would like to point out that in the 1990s we have rebuilt the cod resource in the Barents Sea, which was so totally threatened by the late 1980s and early 1990s. It is also the case that we manage this resource together with the Russians, and in the negotiations that took place in the autumn, a Norwegian-Russian expert group was set up to propose any changes to the management and quota setting. It is also the case that continuous stock estimates are now being made, and in June we will receive new estimates to form the basis for the resource management and quota withdrawal to be determined in the Norwegian-Russian negotiations for the autumn. It's too early to say how this will turn out. We must have the necessary professional and scientific background for that. Otherwise, of course, I am listening to what Stortinget had to say about the negotiations. But I don't see that there's any basis for changing the practices you've had in relation to setting the annual quotas, so we're following the scheme that's been going on for years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e146	I hear that the Council of State follows up what he said to the North Lights in the previous week: "I promise nothing and I intend to hold it." The answer was in the same category as that." One cannot avoid the problem when it comes to what the Marine Research Institute says, that the cod in the Barents Sea is outside safe biological limits. When one sees that the market reacts to us managing our torso outside of safe biological frameworks, we're forced to take it seriously. In the United States, the largest Norwegian maritime food import chain claims that Norway has two advantages. One is quality, and the other is the rumor that we are not engaged in industrial fishing and overfishing. But that rumor stands for the turn to go. They're importing seafood for over 28 billion dollars. The market is reacting to how we manage the cod, and I found it regrettable that the Council of State rejects all proposals for implementing reforms that could bring the cod within a safe framework. I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: He does not reject the participation of the Coastal Fisheries Team in the Norwegian-Russian negotiating delegation. Will he go in for this and now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e157	As regards the composition of the group to be involved in the negotiations with the Russians, as well as the composition of the Board of Regulators, I will assess this when the time comes. There is no basis for taking that decision now. With regard to the description of the stock situation in the Barents Sea, it is not correct, either in relation to what is experienced by fishermen or by researchers. But the tokens for this year are not finished, so let's get the scientific basis before we draw conclusions. Secondly, the reactions of consumer teams in Sweden in the case of cod are mainly linked to the Baltic Sea, and I remember talking about a minimum cod target that is far below the minimum target we have from the Norwegian side. It illustrates that we have a completely different management of fishing resources with regard to the size of the catch, than you have in the Baltic Sea, so the description given here does not match the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e166	There will be follow-up questions – Heidi Sørensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e169	In the autumn, the Environment Minister will travel to Johannesburg to follow up the Rio Conference. He would stress the importance of participation of non-governmental organisations in important negotiations on resources and environmental care. However, in one area – and perhaps in the area of negotiation where we have the greatest responsibility, namely with regard to the management of the Arctic cod stock – non-governmental organisations are excluded from the negotiating delegation. In terms of climate, we can be involved, but not here. Neither is there transparency about what is the Norwegian negotiating position in these negotiations. We can see that it can be difficult because it is sensitive negotiations. But then I don't understand why the Council of State rejects the fact that there should be transparency around the negotiating position of last year. I've heard the council say these are repetitive exercises, but in that case it will be repetitive exercises that the Russians are well acquainted with. Wouldn't it have been nice if the Storting and the general public were also familiar with these repetitive exercises?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e176	I insist that when it comes to transparency about negotiating positions, there is a poor starting point for negotiating common resources between Norway and Russia. I do not see that it would benefit neither resource management nor Norwegian interests that we should have an open debate on negotiating positions, which would then be well known to the negotiator. With regard to the composition of the delegation of non-governmental organisations, I have last week stated that when I am going to put together the negotiating delegation for the first time, I am open to reconsider everything, in the sense that no decision has been made that non-governmental organisations should be able to participate in the delegation on an increasing scale. I have not assessed that, and there I have not made any decision. But it has to be done, and then we see what the decision is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e184	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e187	I think it is extremely worrying if the Council of State does not take these signals coming from the outside world very seriously, because this is both about our reputation as a fishing nation and about a sustainable Norwegian fisheries management. We see a worrying signal about cod stocks, among other things. in the Barents Sea, in the case of several classes of years. We see increased fishing for small fish, and we see that it is sent back cod because through a cape fishing you have sent cod on the market that does not meet the quality requirements. We have built up a sustainable cod stock in the 1990s. Maybe we're now at a new crossroads. It is also a question of the structure of industry, the distribution to the coastal fleet, which is the most sustainable part of the fleet, and which we use in our marketing of Norwegian fisheries management abroad. Look at the Fish Exports Committee. They consistently show a weakness in the marketing of Norwegian fisheries management. How will the Council of State strengthen that part of the industry that can actually contribute both to sustainability and to a better reputation for the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e192	The Minister for Fisheries is very concerned about both the reactions related to the management of fish resources and those related to the quality of fish on the market. Both components are important for Norway’s second largest export industry. So I take that very seriously. We have an overview that the three-four last-year classes are weak, but drawing conclusions on future management before we have carried out research pillars, which will take place in June, is not the basis for this. But there is a sustainable governance to be taken into account. That is what is the main platform for future management, just as it has been in the 1990s – from the cod crisis to the late 1980s and early 1990s. It is well in line with the practices that have been carried out throughout the 1990s, which have rebuilt the population, and which I intend to continue. And I listen to the advice that comes both from the Stortinget and from the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e199	The next main question is from Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e202	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. The fishing industry has great potential for development, while there are serious cross-sections of thought, with stock failures, with exports of fish where unfortunately poor quality has been revealed, and signs of extensive fishing jacks. It is my view that serious breaches of resource management, for example. through discarding of fish or wrong weight tasks, must be severely penalised. The previous government put in place a set of measures against fishing jacks. What will the Council of State do to create the order needed by the industry, and what will the Council of State do to prevent Norwegian fishery products and Norwegian fishing industries from gaining a weakened reputation in the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e209	I fully agree that quality and resource management are an important priority for the Norwegian fishing industry. It is the very sustainability of further developing the potential of the fisheries and marine industries. The responses to resource crime and environmental crime identified in the 1990s and implemented by the previous government will be continued. I have completed a meeting with the industry in total and with control and coastguard earlier this winter, where we reviewed the situation. We have announced that there will be a new meeting this week 25. The industry has put in place a number of measures, not least on the ethics side, for this is a major issue of attitudes. It is also the case that prosecution authorities and courts have recently intensified criminal responses in these areas. So there's a series of measures going on, and I see it so that the industry takes this very seriously. With regard to the events of the last few days in terms of sending poor quality fish out of the country, I have found that this is a failure at all stages of the industry. It is unsustainable and unacceptable for fishermen to bring on-shore fish of poor quality. It is equally unacceptable that the industry buys and sells it. And it's equally unacceptable that export companies are trying to export poor quality fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e218	I hope the Council of State will take along the latest experience in assessing the regulatory framework for the next year – but it will be a slightly different matter. So far, the most marked contribution of the state councils has been to put down the tipphone on fishing jacks and a large-scale closure of coastal fishing offices. Does the Council of State think that it is the right way to go in relation to the problems we see?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e225	I think that you have a far too narrow view of it and don't fully understand what's going on about action, if you think that the tip phone was the most important and only activity to combat environmental crime. The government has, precisely because it is important to look at this not as a common joke, but as an environmental crime, put Ecocrime on the case, and there is a general tip for economic crime and environmental crime. That is where I believe it belongs, and the work has been carried on in a better way at my discretion than by having a special telephone that went to the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e230	There will be follow-up questions – Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e233	I fully agree with the Minister for Fisheries that the issue of life fishing jacks is not least about attitudes. Then I have to say that the government's contribution when he called the tip phone for an indication was a contribution in the wrong direction. Now the Council of State is obviously satisfied that a common telephone has been established at Økokrim. Then I must also be allowed to tell the Minister for Fisheries that a person yesterday tried to get to this phone at Økokrim and find out which number to call. He made contact, as is natural, with the Information. There you didn't know about this at all. The closest thing you could get was being referred to the central table at Økokrim. Is this an expression of a system that works well? Are the Councils satisfied with that? Or is there a lack of information on how to get to this new tip phone?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e238	I am pleased that at least we agree that there is a significant concern about attitudes, or lack of attitudes, when we talk about environmental crime and the so-called fishing yoke. I am pleased that we have a general telephone for financial crime and environmental crime. That's what I think is right, and that's important. As regards the availability of the phone yesterday, I hope that the Minister for Fisheries does not have an overview of this. But at least tips come in to Ecokrim, so the phone is open and accessible. I will check why the Telecom and any information telephones do not have the necessary knowledge of it, but there is at least no lack of attitudes or willingness in the Ministry of Fisheries to put fisheyes and environmental crime to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e246	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e249	One might have ended while the game was good after the installment to Hill-Marta Solberg. But it's about the question that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen asked. The Minister for Fisheries said on 19 April that he blamed the industry for all its responsibilities in relation to these trailers, which were allegedly repatriated from Portugal with raw fish. I'm disunited in this. I believe that the regulations that the regimes have in relation to fisheries are also prejudicial to poor quality. The excessive overregulation that one has, for example: on Group II, bait for cape fishing, which results in a few more fish on land than one can accept. This is not good for quality. We've got some pretty scary reports from Finnmark about how the fishermen treat the fish, because they're so afraid they won't be able to record their quota. Many fishermen have not been able to record their quota this year. Many fishermen, especially in Group II, are stopped from fishing for the rest of the year and have no more to live on for the rest of the year. I wonder if the Council of State realizes that the government's regulations also have consequences for the quality of the fish being landed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e256	There is no doubt that the regulation has an impact on the implementation of fisheries. That's the point. Just in order to ensure both quality and predictability and to enable fishermen to plan their fishing better, we have changed the regulatory framework this year to better than in the past. We do not have a consultation note to ensure that both Group I and Group II boats will be able to plan their fishing better in the future and ensure quality rather than catch. But it is to disclaim responsibility and ignore the realities if you use the regulations as an excuse for fishermen bringing bad fish on land, that buyers buy it and that exporters send it out of the country. It is a responsibility that the industry has, and I believe that it has taken the industry inwards, both in terms of fishermen, exporters and producers. So it is possible that others might think that they are irresponsible, but I perceive that the industry has taken that responsibility and has taken what happened very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e261	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e264	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. This week it became known that a concert was cancelled at a concert hall here in Oslo called Cosmopolite – a world citizen. The reason for this was fear of demonstrations and fighting because two of the five members of the music group have a Jewish background, while being Swiss citizens. It is an episode that does not honor Norway, either as a legal community or as a cultural society. The mildest thing to say about such an event is that it's uneasy. That is why I would like to hear whether the Minister of Justice agrees with me that this represents a challenge also to the part of the Norwegian society for which the Minister of Justice is responsible, namely the rule of law and its duty to ensure that legal activities can take place in the public space of Norway without any danger to the sheikhs or violent demonstrations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e271	I am familiar with the matter through the media afterwards. I think it was a disgraceful situation. We know that we have had markings with what is now happening in the Middle East, as a back carpet, for example. in the Old Logen Monday. We know that there are demonstrations in the centre of Oslo in support of Palestinians and also last week in support of the State of Israel's right to exist. We know that these demonstrations essentially go right ahead. We know that those who want to be outside, they get outside. It should just be missing that it should not be like this. The fact that a cultural feature related to parts of Jewish culture should be stopped, I just think that it is sad. So I assume, to put it straight out, that all the organizers who are concerned about security, incessantly contacting the police. They can expect that events that have the kind of entries they want will have the security they need. We cannot tolerate attacks on peaceful and free expressions, except cultural expressions. It should – but of course there is nothing I can do to judge – have been possible in a city as large as Oslo to have found a suitable room, whose location has been a problem for various reasons. But I can only confirm that, of course, I am fully committed to protecting all the opinions as long as they stay within the framework of the law. I have mentioned a number of businesses that do. I must admit that I had a certain curious thought before the events that took place last week, and I found that they took place in a proper way. I also found that the representative Wohnning challenged those who did not tolerate his opinion, just as I have previously found that Bishop Stålsett took settlement with those who did not tolerate his comments. That's how we're going to feel.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e280	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What makes the matter even more problematic in this case is that this concert tour was a tour directed by the Rikskonserts, i.e. a public government institution, and that the director of the Rikskonserts spoke to the media when it became known that the concert had been cancelled, that he, as the director of the Rikskonserts, had accepted the decision. That, in my opinion, is quite shocking. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice whether the Government for the future will ensure that public institutions in Norway do not accept that kind of decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e287	The Minister of Culture has made it clear about the event, but I want to do, of course, what the representative is asking for, because this is a fundamental question about opinions, free and peaceful statements, about cultural expressions, and they have to go their way. Now the head of the Riks Concerts, like many others, has a free right of expression as a Norwegian citizen. I then get to comment on his comments and say that I am strongly wondering about them, in the sense that in fact, I would think, with the background of cultural life, it would especially be a special duty to fence about cultural expressions, as long as they are about the ordinary, the very natural, what is part of the life around us. I would like to report in the following way that if we start giving in to some sense, because we're worried about something that's exciting around us, then we've let the situation elsewhere turn into our own country in a totally unacceptable way. So what I can say to the representative is that I will appropriately discuss with the Minister of Culture how this can be followed up for later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e292	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e295	A lot of us react to what's now happening in the Middle East, taking a distance from what we see as an attack, and what's happening to the Palestinian population. It does not, however, legitimise any antisemitism or action or expression that might be reminiscent of racism here in Norway. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to help ensure and ensure that we do not get trends in Norway that we now see in other European countries, where synagogues are burning, and where we are about to have a Jewish persecution that reminds us of what happened during the Nazis before and during World War II. Will the Minister of Justice see that this is not happening in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e300	I have already done so in the sense that I have had contact with representatives of the Jewish minority both the last time I was the Council of State and also now when they have had opinions on security. The police director took the initiative on his own, without me having to say a word – and that is how it should be – when it was necessary. I've also followed up, so that you can have the security you want for your religion and for your social activities, without having to suffer for, like Norwegian citizens and from your faith and belonging, what are sharp confrontations elsewhere. I just have to tell the representative that I feel a special responsibility for it. And I'd like to add: Just as the government thinks it was a point that not all Muslims in Norway would suffer for al-Qaeda, it would be totally absurd if Jews in Norway were to suffer because very many of us respond to the policies of the Sharon government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e306	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e309	I have a question for the Minister of Justice, and it concerns cows for settlement, which is an increasing problem. Repeated newspaper articles have shown that the housing queue in Norway is increasing, unfortunately, and we have seen that, among other things. has led people with criminal behaviour to go outside. You've even gone so far that you've released others who've been in for a living, to free up capacity, according to the media's headlines. Some of us had expected a power of action from this government to take a settlement to get something done with this, for it may not be satisfactory for the Government to have such a problem. It is also a problem in this respect with respect for the victims who suffer as a result of the abuses that have occurred. The question is then: What does the government intend to do with this in order to reduce what is obviously an increasing problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e316	Now the question has been asked several times earlier in the questionnaire. It does not prevent it from being repeatable, because it is an urgent challenge. It has also been reported as interpellation tomorrow, and out of respect for the interpellant who has been accepted for his interpellation in the Stortinget, I will give the bulk of the answer then. The short answer is that yes, it's a reconciliation queue. It is a priority in relation to that line of first custody, the second long-standing judge and gangs, and then violent crime. We have to look at what we're going to do with it, and of course we'll come back to it in budgetary terms. That's the short answer to what I said earlier, and that's the answer I give to the representative Ellingen right here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e323	The supplementary question is that I have been informed that the Ministry of Justice is submitting their procedures for reporting in relation to the repair queue. I've been informed that people who apply for absolution are being taken out, and those who don't meet for absolution are not to be reported as part of the ordinary reconciliation queue. If the Minister of Justice had been an accountant, I would say it was creative bookkeeping, but maybe I can't do that here, so I won't. But anyway, it means, in my opinion, that you're up in a situation where you probably have a real and an official statistics on what are the realities of atoning. For me, it's a paradox if people who don't meet for atonement, and who are seeking a postponement, don't count as part of the reconciliation queue, as they haven't had to settle for themselves. I wonder if the minister can confirm that it is a fact that such a conversion is being assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e328	According to my knowledge, we have had the record that we now have for cows, a time, but it is true that it was previously reversed once in the 1990s, the last time it was a big queue. What the representative is asking about is whether some individuals who, for various reasons, have been sentenced, for different reasons, do not count in the queue, and that's quite correct. He has also contacted the department and asked for numbers on it and will get it at the next count. But we don't do creative bookkeeping. The questions asked by Stortinget are answered to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e333	There will be follow-up questions – Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e336	It's for the Minister of Justice. We're going to discuss reconciliation tomorrow, so I'm not going to touch on the main theme in that way. However, in extending the issue of doing something in relation to the pressure against the criminal justice system, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if the Government is now thinking about reducing the need for settlements, i.e. actually preventing them. There are two points of appeal that have been raised in the debate lately, especially in the wake of what happened in Moss. There is the question of drug use, in particular of the use of alcohol in nightlife centres, but also the question of the integration work done in schools. In the past few days, the newspaper has been running a series of articles on what has now happened at Hersleb School in Oslo, where a multicultural violence project has just been drastically cut, while most politicians are crying out loud that we should be as active in the field as possible. When is the government going to begin to show face to face with what can really be short on the pay queues, namely the prevention work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e341	The President will note that we are starting to move quite far beyond the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e344	With the President's permission, however, I will try to answer. It has been announced in the past that there is a case for the Storting on the prevention of childhood and juvenile delinquency. It is also the case that, as the State Council in the Ministry of Justice in 1999, I went to the untraditional step of creating a fissure arrangement with the Municipality of Oslo that depends, to place child protection consultants at the Oslo City Councils – apart from Stovner, where one already had by means of local sprawling in the Groruddalen. It's an attempt to catch up early. I also have regular contact with the prevention work. I also have such a contact with the City Council in Oslo, and I will, of course, investigate – because I am concerned about it – the question that has been raised about Hersleb. It is an important school, and I agree with the representative that what can be prevented at school is important. I have found myself, for example. Last weekend at work with the Oslo Police, how police control in the field of youth weapons turns the police into heroes, regardless of ethnic background. I know that the Oslo Police are just focusing on achieving such a “hero status” to get arms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e351	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e354	Although the Council of State shows respect for tomorrow's interpellant, it should also show respect for those who participate in today's Question Time. I would like to ask the Council of State to respond more fully to the question that was asked, namely whether it is such that the Ministry of Justice is now considering changing the procedures for driving the queues for compensation. In any case, the most important thing to do is to get rid of the reconciliation queues by giving people a zone. It has something to do with respect for legal certainty in our country that people are being punished for criminal acts. It's very dangerous if it's like driving some kind of reconciliation cow manipulation in the department to make it look nicer than it really is. The Council of State should answer that question. Do you use statistical manipulation, or are you really concerned that those convicted of criminal acts should zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e362	Had the question been asked elsewhere than in the Storting, the answer might have been accompanied by a characteristic. I won't. Of course, we have a registration that is the one we tell the public about, and of course, the registration should be clear. If there's going to be changes in it -- and at least I have no plans to change it in such a way that the number has to be manipulated away -- I'll of course say from, and it will be presented in a proper way. I'm interested that the number we have is there. But I confirm what I said earlier in connection with the fact that the representative Ellingsen has asked about those who have so-called postponement of judgment for various reasons, the counting in the queue: they have not done so now. He's asked about the number, and he's got the answer that it's going to be stated the next time. But it's not really talking about manipulating the number, making the number different from what it is. The real number is on the table, so I'll know, the public will know, and the Storting will know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e369	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e372	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Justice. On Thursday 18 April, the Stortinget adopted a proposal from the Progress Party to assess the use of the Defence to transport asylum seekers. In retrospect, full confusion has been created about the decision and what the Government will do with the imposed by the Storting. State Council Dørum was out in the media on Saturday and said he did not want to use the defense for such a task, while other government councillors and members of the government parties defended the decision. The question of whether we are really going to use the defence against civilians in peacetime is a serious and very important matter in principle. I therefore need to clarify the following by the Council of State: Is it such that Minister of Justice Dørum withdraws from this decision? Can the Minister of Justice assure you that it is not appropriate to use the defence against civilians in peacetime?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e383	I can repeat what I said to the media, and that in some places is represented in its entirety. I never judge decisions in Stortinget. The size makes decisions, and they stand there. But sometimes you have a special duty to make a quick assessment of what you are asked to assess. There was such a rapid assessment, it of course had a back coverage in the government – one of which is not doing freelance work as a government council – and that is why I said on behalf of the government that, for principle and practical reasons, we did not go further with this. So there was a awake journalist who asked how I could do it so quickly. I then said that I already last Wednesday, on a question from the representative of Ellingsen, have replied that the government is working with completely concrete plans for a forced deployment of the queue of asylum seekers who have arisen here in the country. I indicated that those plans would come in the near future. Therefore, because we have the plans on the table and also have the full support and a pressure from the police organizations, it is both for principle and for practical reasons so that we do not go further with the proposal. We were asked to make an assessment. The assessment was made. And the assessment has been reported to the public and, of course, this also in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e388	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is a rather strange situation which has arisen with regard to the briefing of the proceedings carried out by the Minister of Justice in this matter, because it is at least the shortest procedure in the time. This should perhaps have been done in advance of the decision taken in Stortinget last Thursday, at least in order to prevent asylum seekers and refugees arriving in Norway from being informed that they can actually be met by the Defence. For the humanist and left-wing man Odd Einar Dørum, it must be particularly difficult to experience that important guarantees of legal certainty are being tested by his party traps in Stortinget. He experienced it before Christmas, in connection with the government parties being pressured by the Progress Party to tender for a prisoner transport, and he now again feels that the Progress Party is forcing the Government to impose coercive measures on others than the police. Is government council Dørum comfortable sitting in a government sitting on the grace of the Progress Party in such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e399	I have previously made it clear that I am not a private-practice Left-member of the government, but that I am a Left-State Council member of a government and a stapler of the Government. As the Prime Minister said earlier, when the Government speaks, it speaks with one voice. I have been authorized to speak with the Government's voice, so the matter would be crystal clear on behalf of the Government. As for the fastest processing of the time, by consulting my own memory, I can remember a period at the end of the 1970s, when I was a relatively young staging representative, when they were told that within 48 hours a system of 100 pst would be implemented. wages and salaries in Norway. It frustrated me so much that, for reasons of principle, I voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e406	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e409	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of State. This matter is partly about an important principle as to the role of defence, and partly about whether the Government agrees with the Government and whether the government parties agree with the government parties. There's still confusion about that. The Chief Council of State in the Grand Chamber on the evening of the decision was Minister of State Erna Solberg, and according to several press releases it was such that the Minister of State gave his consent to and supported the vote of the Government Parties, where a decision was taken which the Minister of Justice subsequently said he was completely in disagreement with. Is it true that the municipal minister cleared and supported the government parties in their vote that evening?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e418	It is right that the Minister of State said that it could be possible, and that we should consider using what is actually the wording of the proposal. I would like to remind you that the wording of the proposal is not that we should use the Defence to transport. It says that the government is asked to assess whether the defence resources can be used. It is such that the defence through its resources has been used in special refugee situations, among others. in relation to the transport capacity on aeroplanes. It was also given as a clear premise in the talks we had with the government parties, that in that area it could be possible to make an assessment. So that assessment was made on Friday, through a discussion between the Minister of Local Affairs, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence, where the Minister of Defence made it clear that we do not currently have any resources of the kind that can be used to help in a transport situation, where we now and then charter aircraft for that type of traffic. And to the extent that we have resources left in a meagre defense, they are currently used in the situation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e423	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e426	I would like to return to the Minister of Justice. In addition, I think that the Minister of Local Affairs gave a thorough and good account of the wording of the proposal. For the purposes of this Decision, it is presented as if the defence should be deployed with full forces and weapons and the whole in order to transport asylum seekers. That, of course, is not correct. But now it's like that Defense is also used today for different civil purposes. Military is in a way in command of the Coast Guard, which has a task in relation to, among other things. The small boat register, where they can go in and take boats and apprehend people. So my question to the Minister of Justice about using the Defense in some tasks is: Will the Minister of Justice now follow the proposal of the Stortinget and come back with an investigation so that the Stortinge can assess on a broader basis whether it is possible to use the Defence for some police tasks and that the police can be used for some tasks within the Defence Department?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e434	The principal answer to that question is actually contained in the Vulnerability Notice, which Stortinget has received. There, the relationship between police authorities and the use of defence is explained in different ways. And it turns out in peacetime that the police are responsible. It may be that, in certain circumstances, the defence comes into force in areas that have been thoroughly clarified, but the circumstances are very special and they are specifically defined, among other things they are. linked e.g. for possible terrorist attacks, etc. There is also a practical agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and the Defence for the monitoring of coastal areas, but it takes place under civil control. The question raised here concerns asylum seekers. And the assessment that I then made on behalf of the Government and with full support of the Government, I have. Of course, it is fully possible to present it wider. But I would like to say it so that to the extent that the Storting will assess it, there is actually a matter in the Storting that draws up the government's principle view of this – the Vulnerability Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e441	No Marte Thorkildsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e444	According to Solberg State Council's answer instead, this was a resource question and not a fundamental question. My short question to Minister of Justice Dørum is then: Does Dørum agree that this is primarily about resources and not about principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e449	I have given an answer after the procedure previously outlined, and in that reply I said that for principle and practical reasons we do not go further with the matter, and I have not changed that opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e454	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e457	This is very interesting. The first is that the State Council of Solberg has confirmed that she ‘cleared’ the votes of the government parties in the Stortinget. The second is that we get a clearly different view between the government representatives in this matter. I record that the Council of State Solberg – that is, she I want to put the question to – says that it was right to vote in favour of the proposal, but it was not practical to follow it up, i.e. a principle yes to the proposal, while the Minister of Justice says that for reasons of principle and practicality he believes that it was not right to go further. So you can see that the Council of State Solberg here basically says yes and is that one should vote in favour of such a proposal, while the Council of State Dørum basically says no and believes that the decision was not favourable. Does this not reveal that the State Council of Solberg and the State Council of Dørum have clearly different judgements in principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e462	There are no different fundamental assessments, since the undersigned has never cleared or the government parties have never ever intended to use the Defence in the form of military personnel to transport asylum seekers or refugees. Our view and the content of what was proposed by the Progress Party was that the defence resources should be evaluated. And in a limited assessment of that, it's like there's been a previous use of defence resources in that form, among other things. transport aircraft, for the purpose of refugee work also in Norway. And that's an interesting question in itself, when we still charter in planes to transport in given contexts. But when this debate is twisted about becoming a debate about using the Defense as such, there is no difference between what the Minister of Justice says, what I mean, and what the government parties actually mean. For us it is not appropriate to send asylum seekers out with the defence personnel. But the question is whether the defense had some resources that could help in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e467	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e470	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. SND has been given a report on future maritime investment where part of the conclusion is not unexpected that coastal cities will have growth in the population, and that many of the small municipalities will be losers in the future population development. The conclusion of this report, which will provide the basis for SND’s choice of investment strategy, is that the requirement for large long-term investment and highly skilled labour will pick out the coastal cities that win, while making many peripheral municipalities losers. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: Will the Minister for Fisheries allow SND to use the instruments to strengthen centralisation and thus make this a self-fulfilling prophecy, or will the Minister for Fisheries facilitate the use of countermeasures to strengthen the settlement and economic development of the municipalities and areas designated by the report as losers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e479	It is true that we have significant centralisation and urbanisation across Norway, and it is a development that has in itself negative consequences, also in relation to the growth potential we see in the marine sector. It is clear that we should exploit the growth potential that is there, there will also be a need for both housing and labour in the districts. With regard to SND and their report and instruments, I recall what Stortinget has been informed about, and that is the basis for the work we do. The government is now looking at the whole instrument, based on a desire to look at it in a context and make it more focused, and we will come back to the Stortinget when it comes to it. Because we have to admit that once we have had such a negative development in the 1990s as that we have had – even under the government in which the queryer put it – it is a consequence that the tool has not been good enough. It seems to this government to try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e486	It is good that the government intends to target the instrument better, but you can do it in two ways. To do what the report concludes, concentrate efforts on the growth areas, or do the opposite, concentrate efforts on the areas that are declining in the population, thus requiring additional assistance. Maybe it's enough to remember a community like Lovund in Northern Ireland to show an example of a community that has experienced a adventurous growth precisely because of the farming industry, and which is in many ways proof that it is actually possible to counteract the unilateral centralisation that we see. It must be possible for the Minister of Fisheries to answer the question on a principle basis: Will he set up the instrument so that it will counteract centralisation, or will it strengthen centralisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e496	The government wants to contribute to a positive development in the marine sector. That's why we've launched a significant cod bet programme, so we're going to award 40 new concessions during the summer, and that's why we're now working intensively to clarify this with salmon fjords as well as coastal protection plans. And that's because you want to bet on the growth potential that exists in the marine sector, a growth potential that is linked to the districts, to the coast – far from the cities. So my answer is, yes, we want to bet on the potential that exists along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e503	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e506	The natural question of follow-up will then be: Will the Minister for Fisheries undertake this by giving clear signals to the SND that their instruments will help to maintain and develop coastal settlements? Or will he simply sit and toe his hands and wait and see that it gets tied up against a few regional centers? It's the natural follow-up question when the council says he's concerned about how to slow down centralization. Centralization is not a mantra. It is a development that can be met with countermeasures from any government. One of the countermeasures should be the imposition of an offensive to prevent precisely the centralisation of the report by saying that, in terms of the SND instruments, priority should be given to those coastal areas that are most in need of the settlement basis and in relation to the population base. We will simply have many living Flakstads, à la Flakstad in Lofoten, and not too many à la Nyksund and what you see there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e513	We share the objective of having a living coastline and districts. This is precisely why the Government looks at the whole instrument and has to make it more targeted — to counteract the developments that have taken place, not least in the 1990s, as a consequence of inadequate instruments and policies that have not been able to counter adequately. And we intend to use the marine sector as an instrument. Once we have this review of the instrument, of which SND is part, it is natural that both the Government and the Storting draw conclusions. And I record that we have common interests in using the tool to strengthen housing and business in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e520	Aud Gaundal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e523	Many coastal communities have discussions about how in the future they can ensure that rights and values created by local communities also remain in local communities, particularly in view of the fact that many coastal communities feel that it is where the relocation is the largest. I have a specific question to the Council of State: what can he think of doing to facilitate so that the raw material benefits the industry along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e530	This is a very complex question, not least because it is so closely related to market conditions. Exports of unprocessed goods have increased in recent years and the cost of filet production has been very unfavourable. It is clear that there has been an unfortunate development. This is something that both industry and policy instruments are trying to contribute to a different development. This is a major challenge in the future, but – as I have said – we want to bet on fisheries and on the marine sector, and then ensuring raw material is an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e537	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e540	I would also like to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. A little bit back to this with the raw fish. Now we've understood from the Fiskribladt that it was a rumor that occurred in a bar, which made one realize that there were some trailers stopped at the border. But the main problem is this with the 'Olympic' fishing that goes on for short periods, in order to get the most fish on land. My question is whether next year's Council of State may think of having more periods than the two we've had this year, so that we avoid this 'Olympic' fishing and avoid poor quality of the fish, and at the same time avoid what is going to happen now, that industry has to permit. In maybe 14 days, the season is over, and that means you don't get a regular delivery either. Can the Council of State express any thoughts about how it will organise this fishing next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e549	Let me first point out that when we talk about the rat fish, I guess it's not exactly a description of the state in which the fish was in. These are soldered fish, which are traditionally blue and of poor quality. The degree of ratsity and the degree of weakness we may not be able to completely clarify, but I think it's important to have said that. In terms of next year's regulations: we will evaluate the year's regulations as we approach the end of the year, and before we decide next year. Obviously, there are opportunities to improve this. We are also preparing this in the form of a consultation note we now have out there, where one looks at whether several of the Group II fishermen can be moved into Group I, so that more predictability can be created, and that, not necessarily over several periods, each fisherman is given more opportunity to dispose of his quota in order to be able to catch the fish in cooperation with the industry and deliver it when it is top quality and when the market can pay the most. This is how we avoid the catch that we see in relation to the soldered fish that was sent out. But it is too early to draw a conclusion on how regulation should be next year. This year, as it has been in all the other years, attempts are being made to improve this year by year, and this is happening in close and close cooperation with the fisheries organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e558	It is clear that with regard to the degree of rhothics, it may well have something to say about how late it was when rumors arose in the bar. But what I find hard to see is whether there are other ways to regulate this than that one opens up for a greater degree of periodicization. There may also be a problem when, for example: boats get a certain quota and a freedom to fish it at will. I see to that it's a point. But I want to point to this with periodicization. At least I have received feedback from the industry that one way to go is that one gets a periodicization. So there should be a combination -- that the fishermen get quotas that they can regulate themselves over the entire year, but that one might also open up a greater degree of periodicity at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e566	I accept all the good proposals and proposals for improving the regulatory regime. But once again, I would like to stress that it is important for industry itself to have a high-quality approach to this, and that we should not bring fish that do not meet quality objectives on land and on the market. The image that we're trying to build up in relation to the quality-finding fisheries, Norwegian good fish, and the fact that we have a regulatory and administrative regime that protects the environment, is an important prerequisite for our success with the potential. When it comes to this rumor that has arisen in a bar, I don't have any particular experience with that. I wasn't at this bar, so I don't have any views on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e573	Information can be obtained in many places, it sounds like. Besides, the president's perception is that the only wet fish that's eaten is lute fish. Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e580	I also have a question for the Minister for Fisheries. Coastal people are now deeply concerned about the development of fisheries, housing and employment. The signals from the Minister for Fisheries about exclusions from fishing have triggered a strong debate in our coastal communities. The Minister of Fisheries, according to the media, believes that this concern is due to the fact that people have not intervened in the matter and that there should be no change in the quota allocation between boat sizes or in relation to the right of part-time fishermen to fish. At the same time, the Minister for Fisheries says that greater profitability should be created. My simple question to the Council of State will then be: Where will the improved profitability be obtained, when it is not to be done by re-prioritisation within the industry? Isn't it the case that someone has to be taken from, if others are going to get more profitability?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e591	In February the Ministry of Fisheries issued a hearing note on access restrictions for sea fishing and hay by vessels less than 28 metres. I think it is important to establish that the misunderstanding that someone is trying to build up below is wrong. I have not proposed that we take fish from small boats and give to larger vessels, I have not proposed limiting the possibility to fish in combination, nor have I proposed reducing the possibilities for pensioners to fish. When, in addition, someone contributes to building up under the misunderstanding that this is about the participation law, I have allowed myself to say that perhaps more time should be spent reading the consultation draft before attaching to the Minister of Fisheries opinions that are not reflected there. What we have published in this consultation note is an invitation to make comments. The Minister for Fisheries has no record of the proposals that have been made. We're going to accept the hearing opinions and evaluate it before we decide anything. But I remind you that what we are proposing in terms of sea and haze is well in line with the regulation regime that has been for cod in the 1990s. So there's no drama in it. But I'll give you one example of how to increase profitability. This concerns the debate on this cod sent to the market and which was not maintained in quality. Just by regulating in such a way that fishermen can plan their fishing and deliver the catch when the price and quality are at the top can contribute to increased profitability. Moreover, I believe that to ensure coastal settlement, it is particularly important to ensure a nutritional basis well enough for those who fish all year long. But there should be room for both, both combination and full-year fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e604	I thank you for the answer, but I did not really get an answer to what I asked for. That is why I have a few specific questions I would like to ask the Council of State to answer. It is not the case that fishermen on small vessels should fall out of the fish if they, due to restrictions on fishing, e.g.: or other conditions have not fished enough for two of the last three years? And in relation to this consultation document and the signals from the Council of State: Is it not true that access to the fishing industry for which part-time fishermen are to fall away?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e611	I think it is important that we now realise that this consultation note has been sent out in order to get views on different aspects of a future regulatory regime. I think it would be wrong if we in Stortinget were to discuss in a way a consultation note as if it were the decision that was taken. I think it's important to take into account what's now on the table, that we, among other things. wish to move the most active fishermen of the so-called Group II over to Group I, precisely to ensure that the most active are able to plan their fishing and secure their share of the quotas. So it's not right that we want to close someone out. It's still going to be an open group, Group II.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e618	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e623	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Moreover, the President would point out that there are many of the representatives who have asked questions, who have been removed, so that the questions are put to the vote. If you choose to ask questions in a question time, you should try to be present. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, was moved and answered at the end of the Question Time at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Questions 2 and 3 from the representatives of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Torbjørn Andersen, respectively, to the Minister for Finance, lapse, as the questions are not present. Questions 7, 8, 9 and 10 from representatives John I. Alvheim, Olaf Gedrem, Harald T. Nesvik and Åsa Elvik respectively to the Minister for Health are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has departed. Question 12, from the representative of May Hansen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Culture and the Church, this question is moved and answered in response to question 4, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 13 and 16 from the representatives of Ursula Evje and Arne Sortevik, respectively, to the Minister for Education and Research, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from Mr Karl-Anton Swensen's representative to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has left. Question 15, from the representative Siri Hall Arnøy to the Minister for Education and Research, has been withdrawn. Question No 19, by Karin Andersen, representative of the Minister of Labour and Administration, lapses because the questioner is not present. Questions 23, 24 and 25, from the representatives Jan Simonsen, Åslaug Haga and Morten Lund respectively to the Minister for Defence, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question No 26, by Mr Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for the Environment, lapses because the questioner is not present. Questions 27 and 28, from the representatives of Ola D. Glötvold and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik respectively to the Minister for the Environment, are moved and answered only in the Questionnaire at the request of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e655	Question 1 has been moved and will be answered at the end of the Questionnaire. We go first to question 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e664	‘Government and government aim to reduce the noise scourge by 25 pst over a period of 10 years. In a recent report by the Transport Economics Institute and Environmental Acoustics AS «Very screams and little wool – Current noise legislation in practice» [[(see section 4.4). journal "Trafficking", Feb. 2002)]] Will the Council of State take any new steps to achieve its objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e673	It is both a timely question and a good day that the representative Vaggen Malvik has chosen to address noise problems, for today it is the international noise-free day. It is marked many places around the country. The representative is also quite right that perhaps one of the major remaining environmental challenges we face in Norway is related to noise. Some will think that there has been deafening silence around the question for many years, but noise is actually a not insignificant challenge for many people here in the country. SFT studies show that 1.5 million people live in such a way that they have over 50 decibels of noise in their residential area, and half a million people in Norway are in a situation where they have severe noise-related plagues. It goes beyond night sleep, and it goes beyond the quality of life. That's why, of course, this government is determined by what the Bondevik I government stated, that our national goal is to reduce noise pollution by 25 pst. by 2010. There are many instruments here that we should look at more closely, but the fact is that the transport sector accounts for 70 pst. of the noise problems created. That is why it is essential what we can do in relation to public transport. The Government shall present a collective notification on Friday. On Friday, the Government will also present a major communication on a better environment in cities and agglomerations, which will improve spatial planning. It is important to get more people involved in public transport. It is important for cities to avoid much of the transit traffic that also passes through residential areas. It's one of the big overall grips you can take. Then there is also industry and air traffic, which are two major sources of noise. In particular, it is problematic with industry which is noisy in residential areas. There we have to get to a transformation. We also need to look at car types and how the cars are designed – more noiseless cars. More low-noise snowmobiles, e.g. in the mountain is also not to be despised. We also have to look at different types of road surface. Part of the road surface we use in Norway, noises unnecessarily. It's also that part of the carcass we use is not of the most low-noise international. We have to go inside and look at that. This is just information about some of the measures we will now be working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e688	Many children and young people are plagued by noise. Preventing is, of course, much more rational than repairing in retrospect. I am very pleased with the emphasis that the Council of State has on the importance of the transport sector, and the solution may well be here, as in the climate context, that one simply has to drive less. But when schools have to keep the windows closed to protect the students, something is fundamentally wrong. There is an example of a split new school that had to go to this step because there was no money left in the budget to build noise waves against the road. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think this is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e693	No, no, no. That's the short version. It's unacceptable when you build a new school that you can't open the windows and air. In fact, many dwellings in Norway are in such a situation that you cannot open the windows, and if you open them, there is not only noise that is the problem, there is also air pollution in the same areas. So we have challenges related to the transport sector – noise and air pollution. There we will go in with remedial measures. The same applies to structural measures, namely land-use planning and collective notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e700	I thank you for your answer. According to what the Council of State now says, it is natural to ask whether there will be a single regulation with binding and recommended noise limits for the treatment of noise according to the different laws that we have, both the Planning and Building Act, the Pollution Act and the Municipal Health Service Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e707	I'll take that tape with me. I think it's also natural to consider that. But, as I said, and as the representative himself was also involved, the remedial measures are not the most interesting, perhaps – in relation to building noise walls and making triple windows. It doesn't matter what the basic problem is. I also think that we need to work a lot more on land-use planning, not least in the big cities, and we need to work in relation to transit traffic. In the medieval town of Trondheim, as the representative Vaggen Malvik also knows, there are 1,000 heavy-duty cars that pass through the city unnecessarily only in one day. You have to do something about this. This also applies to the other measures I mentioned, in relation to road surface and car quality. We have set targets in relation to air quality, and there are already targets on noise too. But we're going to see if regulations are the right way to do it, or whether we're going to choose to go the more positive way, for which I also mentioned measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e714	We're going to go to question 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e721	The point about Noise-Free Day is already taken, so we get to noise a little bit in our way. So to my question. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘On Wednesday 24 April, it has been designated Noisefree Day. In ordinary Question Time on 17 April at the latest. it was informed that the noise pollution associated with the Eastern Region of the region will affect 305 dwellings. If the Rødsmoen noise concession is used as the basis for the regional field concession, 900 properties, of which 450 dwellings, are affected. Does this mean that the concession basis is adjusted on a case-by-case basis without regard to general provisions on noise pollution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e732	A number of estimates have been made of the prevalence of noise that can be expected from the Eastern Region. In the questionnaire last week, the Minister of Defence referred to the most recent calculations for the number of properties – 305 dwellings – that will be affected by noise above 50 decibels outdoors. The Representative for Smoothness refers to some other numbers, such as: 450 dwellings, which will be affected. As far as I have been able to clear up, these figures refer to a preliminary estimate from the Defence Building Service from approx. two years ago, in connection with the treatment of a temporary ban on construction and parts in the area by the municipality of Åvret. The defense specifies that these are now old numbers. The basis for the calculation of noise is steadily improving as more detailed information on expected activity in the Eastern Region and the location of the heaviest installations is available. The defence has not yet applied to the SFT for an emission permit under the Pollution Act of the Eastern Region. Since the Ministry of the Environment is the Board of Appeal for any complaints on such a concession, I cannot foreshadow what the concession terms of the Regionfeld Eastland will be like. There are no general Norwegian provisions on military noise as such. A larger exercise area of this type involves complex activity, which is partly comparable to other civil noise. The general noise legislation, together with international rules and guidelines for different types of shooting and blasting noise, forms the basis for the concession treatment of noise from complex military activity. Concession treatment of noisy activities in general is based on knowledge of the effects of different noise levels from different types of noise sources, and the concessions are designed to take account of the specific on-site conditions. For noise conditions such as weather, activity patterns, topography and location of population concentrations are also important factors affecting noise exposure and noise pollution. The concession terms may therefore vary from one part of the design to another. It is therefore not possible to compare Rødsmoen and Regionfelt Eastland directly or initially expect all concession conditions to be identical for the two areas of practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e748	I thank the Council of State for the answer and have some comments on it. That 450 homes is an old number, I guess there's a lot of disagreement about. There are figures on which Åvre Municipality has based its decisions, as late as May last year at least. And I guess that's numbers from, among other things. Source of Acoustics that form the basis of part of this calculation. With regard to the Ministry of the Environment being the Board of Appeal, I am aware of that. However, it is also important at this stage to provide the basis for this concession treatment and, where appropriate, for an appeal procedure, if that is the case. We know that, among other things: The noise index measurement, the so-called SPI factor, is very controversial, and there are many ways to do this calculation, which was also in the Council of State. I think it's strange that the noise level has fallen by 5 decibels after you've gone over to Multiconsult to investigate – this despite the increased activity. Will the Council of State be involved in postponing the development of these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e761	The representative has to be careful so he doesn't spend the time on the next supplementary question on the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e764	In the challenges we face with regard to the Eastern Region, the area under my department is to address a possible concessional request in relation to pollution. As I said, the defense has not yet submitted an application for an emission permit under the pollution law of the Eastern Region. The concession treatment of such an application will take some time in experience, especially if there are complaints that need to be further addressed. At the same time, we understand that the defence is planning to start building up the region of Eastern Europe in 2002 — that is, the answer — in order to make use of the area in 2005. The defence must have a building permit under the Planning and Building Act for its planned development work. Prior to the granting of a building permit, municipal construction authorities shall refer the matter to the relevant sectoral authorities, including the SFT. In a concrete assessment of the works for which authorisation is sought, the SFT may consent or not allow the construction works to start without the existence of an emission permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e775	There was once again a lot of time on my clock, President. It's clear that SFT is now involved in these different numbers. The SFT asks that the defense get an independent consultant or consultant group to look at these different things. Will the Minister for the Environment support it? I have to ask again, because I don't think there was any good answer to my question: is it not most right to postpone this extension until SFT has dealt with the concession case? The SFT itself has said that in case you start before the concessional treatment is completed, it becomes for the defence's own account and risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e784	There will be no – should at least not – as a surprise to the representative Glow violence what is the Government’s position in relation to the Eastern Region. As far as concession treatment is concerned, as I explained, it is also so that the SFT can agree to it or you cannot consent to it. Consent is given, which is quite common in such contexts – at least compared to what has happened before – on the part of the builder’s own account and risk. I've said the same thing. I have full confidence in the SFT, which is my directorate in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e791	Let's go back to questions 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e816	These questions don't go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e823	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Church and Culture the following questions: ‘The Information Service Fund, which owns Storesand on Hyler, has proposed to Oslofjorden’s Free Air Council to adjust the rental price from NOK 300 to NOK 130 000 annually. Great sand is a free area used and has been used for decades as a bathing area and a tent area. The Oslofjord Free Air Council operates the area. Will the Council of State take the initiative to transfer this free space free of charge to the Directorate for Nature Management, as other similar state properties have become?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e837	Law of 7 June 1996 No. 33 form the basis for the management of the Information Service Fund. According to Section 5 of this Act, it is prohibited to give up the fund's property. This prohibition must be seen in conjunction with Section 2, which reads: ‘Lova shall ensure that the fund benefits the Norwegian Church and that the values are preserved and yields returns in accordance with Grundlova § 106.’ Against this background, there is probably no legal capacity to transfer the property in question to the State of the Directorate of Nature Management free of charge. The area at Wyler has been rented to the Oslofjordens Freiluftsråden since 1940 for an annual rent of NOK 300. After I have been informed, the Information Service's fund in negotiations with the Outdoors Council has offered further rentals for NOK 10 000 per year. year – i.e. not NOK 130 000, but NOK 10000 per year. years. The information society fund management body has otherwise informed that the fund has a realistic expectation of being able to resolve this matter in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e849	I thank you for your answer. The fact that it is not lawful under today's law to transfer the property free of charge, it is possible to do something about it, if you take an initiative to do so. That's the one. The second is that it's at all to demand rent from someone who has a lot of money to manage the area, so keep track of an area that is a free space, and that can be used as a free space, is something special. It must be possible for the fund to see this in the light of other laws. There is no possibility for the Fund to receive revenue from a free area. They can't build it, the area is in the beach zone, and the water swells into the beach. In the light of other things we have had in this room about the Information Society's fund, one must begin to wonder whether it is not possible to make this fund understand that they also have to deal with the law that other landowners have to deal with. I repeat the question: will the Council of State take the initiative to do something about what is a formal obstacle to transferring this property to the authorities that should naturally manage this type of free space?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e858	I only answer what is in the law of the fund today, and the fund is, of course, required to comply with the law that Stortinget has enacted when it relates to the funds. I think it is important that the values that the fund has are preserved, as stated in Section 2, which I quoted. Otherwise, it is also important here to point out that there is a large difference of 130 000 kroner per year and 10000 kroner per year. What is the final result, I do not know, but I have been informed in contact with the fund that they have quite good expectations that they will be able to get some of this. If they get some of that, we should be good at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e865	The Council of State says that she answers what is stated in the law, but the question was whether she would take the initiative that this could be transferred. Then she must also take an initiative to do so by possibly amending the law. It is nice if the Information Service's fund now understands that at least an agreement for a rental price of NOK 300 should be continued with what might be the real value of the day. But the principle is that the fund should pay towards a body that manages and keeps order in the area of the fund. If they said no, we won't pay for what we should have paid for it, the fund would have a problem. The beach would be used as a free area, and who would then be responsible for the pollution that would naturally occur in such an area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e872	These are the things that I expect them to take care of in relation to the responsibility they have when it comes to managing the fund. I also expect that when the law was adopted in connection with the fund, it's not that old, it's from 1996, both those who proposed the law, and those who have made the laws, thought through such a situation that we've now come up with. Of course, I have to engage in dialogue with the fund. The Ministry does so at regular intervals in relation to different matters, both the matter being brought up by the representative himself and others. But to change the law because of this matter I do not see as necessary. I would rather go through the whole issue and see if there are other things that make us look at the law. But this particular thing I think it seems that they can solve. Then we'll see if there are other issues that lie there, which means that the law should change, which I don't know enough about today to say one should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e877	We go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e884	This question, from the representative of May Hansen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e887	‘There have been three tragic killings in Moss in four weeks. Three young people are killed. The common feature of these killings is that the perpetrators of the killings are convicted of violence and threats. The father of one defendant of 19 years has also asked for assistance from child protection. There are different causes of violence in the various youth settings. We have to think new. Will the Council of State take the initiative of setting up a cross-ministerial group responsible for coordinating actions for children and young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e894	I will answer this question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Recent tragic events have shaken us all, and the representative May Hansen raises a very important question. In the prevention and treatment of serious behavioural problems among children and young people, it is essential that efforts are organised across services, departments and departments. For some years now, efforts have been made to renew and streamline efforts in relation to serious behavioural problems among children and young people. This work is intended by the Council of State to continue and intensify in cooperation with the other departments concerned. New impulses and good cooperation give cause for optimism. Two approaches have been identified as particularly effective in preventing, stopping or mitigating behavioural problems, and are now offered in all counties of the country, both through child protection and mental health protection for children and young people. It concerns ‘Parant Management Training’, PMT, for younger children and families, and ‘Multisystemic Therapy’, MST, for young people. The first aims to prevent behavioural problems from developing to become serious among younger children, the second aims to stop or mitigate problems where they already have a serious character, for example: drug abuse, violence and other crime. The two methods show very good results in the United States and are being continuously evaluated in Norway. The results are so promising. I will also mention St.meld. No 17 for 1999-2000, action plan against childhood and youth crime, presented on 10 December 1999. The plan presents more than 40 actions and was developed in close cooperation between the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Police, the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Some of the main measures in the plan are: efforts to combat school bullying, efforts to combat children and young people experiencing war experiences, continuation of the conflict management system, attempts at youth contracts as alternatives to punishment and better follow-up of children and young people with serious behavioural problems. A State Secretary’s own committee follows up the work through discussions and priorities of the effort. Governments see it as an important task to develop research-based competences in order to find the best methods and use them correctly. In Norway, we have had no overall environment responsible for research into problem behaviour among children and young people. The departments concerned have therefore taken the initiative of setting up a new centre for this purpose, associated with the University of Oslo. The objective is to establish a network of universities, colleges and centres of excellence to develop knowledge and methods in this area. Serious behavioural problems among children and young people are a challenge that requires coordinated and multidisciplinary efforts. There is already extensive cross-ministerial cooperation in this field, while the Committee of State Secretarys for Children and Young People has this issue high on its agenda. There is a lot of innovation and innovation in recent years. We already seem to have knowledge and methods that can significantly improve work. What remains is, among other things: ensuring that work on this group is adequately prioritised and intensified, and not least well coordinated at all stages. The government will come back to these questions in the child protection issue that will be presented later in the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e913	I thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the Minister that a lot of good work has been done, and that we are working on this on several levels. But we fail. Throughout the week, there have been various articles on how to get to a short number of places because of poor local economy, and today's newspapers say: ‘538 children taken by child protection. Never before has child protection taken over the care of as many children as they did last year.’ And on the other hand, ‘Nercoma and mentally ill parents are left in many cases. Total 2001 figures show that the county councils in this country had almost 230 more child protection cases last year than in the previous year. What will the Minister do to correct the poor county economy and the poor municipal economy that we have, so that we can implement these measures we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e931	I'm not going to go into the budget, because that's not the starting point for the question. The previous period when we were in government, there was a pilot project directed at these two programs that I mentioned. Today there is provision in all states, and I hope and believe that what has been done will have an effect. If we don't see the effects today, I hope and believe that it will have lasting effects. The Befring selection delivered its setting to the Stoltenberg government, and now we come up with a big message about child protection where this will be discussed in Stortinget. We are now working, as we did the previous time we were in government, with cross-ministerial cooperation at both the level of office and the state secretarial level, and I hope that this will be shown again. We see these headlines and what the representative read, but I hope that what is now going on will bear fruit, so that we can mitigate these unfortunate outcomes that we are witnessing, and that the situation of child protection is getting better – because we are actually focusing on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e938	I thank you again for the answer. Last year, in the position of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs on the budget, the emphasis was placed on this interdisciplinary work in different sectors. However, we also adopted cuts in measures for children and young people. We also see that today there is a fear of the fury of work against violence. It's a very successful project at Hersleb school that is now at risk of closure. There is also a proposal from me on a treatment guarantee for children and young people under 18 years of age in drug treatment and psychiatric treatment. For what is around the reality is that there are actually 1 1⁄2 years of queueing for psychiatric treatment for children and young people, and there are several counties who do not provide treatment for drug users under 18 years of age. And this is all about money. Is the government in a way prepared to create a package of measures for children and young people working across departments to find out what works, and what we can spend money on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e947	Yes, now I think there are many measures that have been put into practice and will be put into practice in relation to cooperation across borders, which I have also mentioned in my answer. I would like to mention another measure that was taken three to four years ago, at the Centre for Crisis Psychology in Bergen. They train people who work on reception. Some of the problem here is that we get some war-damaged children and families to Norway. They also need help so that they don't become criminals in the next round. So people from the Center for Crisis Psychology in Bergen travel all over the country, schooling those who work at reception, helping both children and young people and parents to work through some of these traumas that they have with them when they come to Norway. This, together with all these other measures and a well-worked and good child-responding message, I think I will focus on this. Then, as the representative points out, we must also have resources to implement our plans. And that's what I hope we can get.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e954	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e960	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Operating subsidies for milk in northern Norway last year are, according to the agricultural agreement, NOK 66 000. Nevertheless, milk producers have been paid much less. The figures from the Ministry of Agriculture show that there are 130 million. kr unused in the entry Operating grants for milk. Will the Council of State ensure that milk producers are paid what they are entitled to under the agricultural agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e969	In the agricultural settlement in 2001, the Contracting Parties agreed to convert the management of operating grants for milk. This conversion meant that the responsibility for the payment of the subsidy to the producer was transferred from the dairy companies to the State's agricultural management, with a conversion from monthly to half-yearly payment of the subsidy. It was made clear in the proposal on the agricultural settlement that the last payment from the dairy companies was due in December 2001. The 2001 national accounts show that it is on top of it. 1150 For the purpose of implementing the agricultural contract sub-heading 74.11 Operating aided milk is an under-consumption of approximately 130.8 million. kr, which corresponds to approx. 10 pst. of the 2001 budget. The reason for the under-use of the scheme of operating grants for milk in the national accounts for 2001 is the change in the payment procedures resulting from the conversion of the scheme. The under-use has not resulted in producers being paid less than that provided for in the agricultural agreement. The milk producers in North Norway were paid NOK 66 000 in operating grants from the dairy companies in 2001. Producers will also be paid NOK 66 000 in operating grants at current rates in 2002 but then from the State Agriculture Administration. The reason why producers claim that they have been paid less than agreed in the agricultural agreement for 2001 is that I believe that they have their origin in the individual producer's accounting for the grant in the transition from 2001 to 2002. The under-use of milk under subheading 74.11 Operating grants in 2001 is due to budgetary constraints and has therefore not reduced payments to producers in relation to the agreement. On the basis of this, I believe that the milk producers in North Norway have been paid the operating subsidy for milk agreed in the agricultural agreement, and I therefore see no reason to pursue this matter any further. Under-use will also be included in the funds transferred under the agreement from 2001 to 2002 and will be disposed of in the year’s agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e982	I guess I'm a little surprised at the answer. It is clear that here there is a quite different understanding of what has happened, and what are the requirements and rights under the agricultural agreement between producers and agricultural organisations and on the other hand the country. According to the annual tasks sent from the dairies to the producers, producers have not received NOK 66 000 in 2001. They've received far less than that. The reason for this is that the last monthly payment was not made. As far as I can see, there can be no other connection than that one has just got a mistake in the transition between those responsible for the payments, which has made the manufacturer actually suffer. I understand that the Council of State sees this as a purely technical calculation. But I think it would have been interesting if the Council of State here had entered into a dialogue with the producers and the agricultural organisations on the matter once more, in order to clear up any ambiguities and the completely different views that you have on the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e991	As I said in my answer, the agricultural agreement deals with the arrangements, and the operating grant scheme for milk in North Norway is that each milk producer should have NOK 66 000 when he meets the criteria. It has been paid in this case, in the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the agricultural agreement has been complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e996	I am only told that the Minister of Agriculture believes that the milk producers have been paid NOK 66 000. The milk producers believe that they have not been paid it, but something much less, and that suddenly there is 130 million. kr unused in a post linked to the Ministry of Agriculture. I think it would have been useful to have a good climate during the coming agricultural negotiations that at least a dialogue had been entered into to find out what is the reason for having a completely different understanding of the reality of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1003	Yes, there has been a dialogue between the organisations and the Ministry of Agriculture on this matter, and, from the Ministry of Agriculture's point of view, it is quite clear that the conditions of the agricultural agreement are met here. It's like this. And there's a different reason than the transition from 2001 to 2002, to which the questioner here puts it, because there's an under-consumption of 130 million. kr. It refers back to something earlier. And this amount, as I expressed in my answer, will be included in the agricultural negotiations this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1011	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘The Nations newspaper informs us that the so-called 24-hour rule to prevent care prisoners from being in a smooth cell for an unnecessary period of time is being broken more and more often. What has the Council of State intended to do to prevent this happening?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1020	Police and criminal services aim at transferring custody prisoners from police detention to prison within 24 hours after the prison sentence was passed. This objective is made clear in the letter of assignment to the criminal services, and priority has been given to care cases. It is also true that breach of this objective has been reported. Up to this year, under 100 such fractures have been reported. Most of them are relatively short-lived, i.e. from one to two days. But in Bergen, we've had cases where people have been significantly longer in police custody before they've been transferred to prison. The main reason for this is, of course, the under-covering of prison capacity in relation to the number of convictions and the need for custody. I have previously explained this capacity challenge here in the Questionnaire. As Minister of Justice, I take this situation very seriously, and we are following developments closely. It is important for us that people who are being held in custody quickly enter a prison regime with opportunities for aeration, employment, community etc. We've worked a lot to reduce the unfortunate effects of people being held in custody while the case is being investigated. The long-term solution to this problem is, of course, to establish more prison sites. I'll get back to that. In the short term, we consider some criminal policy instruments that can increase the flow of institutions, such as increased use of §12 transfers for treatment, and whether the call for judgment needs to be further reduced in order to increase custody capacity. I also mention that last Friday we put forward proposals for changes to the law that will provide for more rapid handling of criminal cases and thus shorter custody periods, and rules that will increase legal certainty for custody inmates. In my view, today's guidelines on the transfer from police detention to custody should be replaced by a more specific legislation based on law. The government has therefore proposed that a sanction be given under Section 183 of the Criminal Procedures Act for the King to lay down a regulation on the use of police arrests. I am determined that this regulation will ensure that the use of police arrests is further reduced in relation to today's actual situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1033	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice takes a serious view of the situation. This is a very sensitive area of criminal proceedings. First of all, it's about people sitting in prison without judgment, so that in many ways you have a burden on it, and you're sitting under conditions that are critical. The second is, of course, that the 24-hour rule implies that, in some places, custody prisoners who have committed serious crimes and against whom society needs protection are actually released. So here's two considerations that come too far. There is absolute reason to say that 100 breaches of this rule are serious, especially given that the torture commission has actually criticised Norway’s use of care. In this way, I might think that the situation calls for immediate action to a greater extent than the Minister of Justice now sees fit, and I would like to challenge him and ask him: does he see any chance now to put any action in place immediately so that we can prevent more such breaches?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1042	I have responded to what are the short-term measures, and which we need to assess, inter alia. § 12 zoning and, where appropriate, postpone individual doomsendations. These are the measures I will come back to in that case. Of course I take this seriously. We ourselves have imposed this 24-hour rule. According to my knowledge, it is much more stringent than the EMK imposes on us, but we have chosen to follow it. I must also point out that when the torture commission was last here, they also asked us to look at other matters, such as proper cell conditions, written information and health care. It is the application which has been followed up and which will also be appropriately re-checked. But with regard to the question raised here, we have to be able to see that the problems of fractures are mainly related to Oslo and Bergen, perhaps most of them to Bergen. Therefore, this is a question I have focused on and will come back to, also regarding the longer-term conditions of this. But in the short term, I think, unfortunately, we have to live with the fact that this will take a while, and then we will see what practical measures I can take to ensure that this does not grow out of control, and that it will not become too unpleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1053	I thank you for your answer. You refer here to the unsustainable conditions on the cells, and that's what the germ of the problem is. It's the cell itself that makes the situation so difficult for those who get on so-called smooth cell. Could the Ministry of Justice now think of a solution where you actually established something as simple as better cell conditions around the police stations, so that you might actually avoid having such a 24-hour rule, that at least you had some cells at your disposal that looked more or less like normal prison cells?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1060	Better cell conditions were one of the themes of the torture commission. But I understand that the representative Storberget wants to contribute constructively and actually asks questions about whether we should do more than this. I see that as a constructive call for me, and of course I will take it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1108	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1115	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘State networks expect fewer bottlenecks in the electricity grid in the years to come. The basis for this expectation is that Statnett has several concrete plans for reinforcements of the grid. Will the Council of State contribute to the realisation of the network reinforcements envisaged by Statnett, so that the flow of power ensures effective competition for consumers in the Nordic power market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1124	Statnett is the system administrator of the Norwegian power system. In the review of Statnet's tasks and organisation in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, as the Stortinget treated separately earlier this year, it is underlined that Statnet as a transmission system operator is responsible for the implementation of socially profitable investments in the central transmission system. Statnet has in its network development plan for the period up to 2010, provided that the power balance is tightened and imports are increasing until 2005, and then moving back to the current situation by 2010. With regard to the realisation of the network investments envisaged by Statnet, the State network itself has to take the investment decisions. Statnet shall plan the network on the basis of socio-economic criteria, thus reducing bottlenecks is one of the benefits highlighted in the decision. In order to contribute to the implementation of the socially correct investments, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which owns the enterprise, has clarified in the Statnet Statutes that the enterprise is responsible for the socio-economic rational operation and development of the central transmission system in force. As I see it, the overall regulation of Statnett as well as the wording of the statutes on socio-economic rationality and the development of the network contribute to Statnett’s implementation of the socially correct investments in the future. However, with regard to the development of the grid and the flow of power between the Nordic countries, responsibility rests not only on Statnet but on all the Nordic transmission system operators. The Nordic system operators currently have extensive cooperation through the Nordic cooperation organisation. Web development is an important theme on which Nordel is concerned, and I am aware that Nordel is now completing a Nordic master plan for network development. Thus, all Nordic system operators have focused on reducing bottlenecks between countries. Furthermore, an important challenge is to arrive at robust and fair mechanisms to finance multi-country network connections. I want to facilitate increased coordination and harmonisation of regulation and regulation in the Nordic region, precisely to ensure a continued efficient and secure Nordic power market. Bottleneck management is an example of a theme where further harmonisation may be necessary. I also point out that at the Nordic Council of Ministers of Energy in 2000, there was an agreement that the development and strengthening of the transmission system is no longer a purely national issue, but that there is a need for Nordic cooperation where overall systemic responsibility is increasingly seen in a Nordic perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1139	I thank you for the answer, although I think it is a little passive to leave responsibility to Statnett and the network companies. The government has, as the Council of State says, just dealt with the organisation of Statnett, and the Stortinget has pointed out that Statnett is responsible for the repair of the bottlenecks and that something is being done to reduce them. We have also seen that when there is a great deal of power on the network, the electricity prices go up unreasonablely. It may well be that my question was a little unclear, so I should give the Council another opportunity to answer it. Does the Council of State believe that the wish of the Storting is feasible in relation to the bottlenecks, and what will he do to ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1148	First, my answer was not meant to be passive, reciprocating, but active, ongoing. It is an important issue raised by the representative of Klungland. It is not right that I now sort of leave to Statnett, as the questioner said, to sort this out. It is my responsibility as Minister of Energy to provide Statnet with the framework conditions and requirements so that one implements the necessary measures in the grid to avoid bottlenecks. It has been taken up by Statnett together with its Nordic partners. It would be wrong for the Council of State to intervene in the instruments. That's what Statnett is supposed to take responsibility for. But the framework, expectations and requirements are laid down, among others. in Statnett’s business meetings, where I am then a business meeting, and both policies and regulations are designed in line with the policy that Stortinget has also set up. I believe that this is the basis for saying that Statnett is doing a very good job in this area, and I believe that there is also a positive development in this way in removing bottlenecks in the Nordic context. Of course, as far as market prices are concerned, they're guided by the fact that we have the necessary flow, that the grid is working properly. It is clear that system bottlenecks could also occur at unwanted increased prices. I believe that there is good reason to say that we have a well-functioning line network that avoids the kind of price rise due to bottlenecks in the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1157	The government has put itself in a situation where the import of force will grow larger and larger, and we are becoming more and more dependent on good transmission lines and a good network. We have also seen that the Competition Authority has stopped Statkraft's ability to become a larger company and thus could resist competition with foreign companies, precisely on the grounds that the network is too poor and the bottlenecks are too large. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that the wishes of the Storting can be implemented in relation to the extension of State power? This must mean that the network is being developed, so that bottlenecks disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1166	With regard to my actions in relation to reducing the bottlenecks, I refer to my first answer. As far as imports of force are concerned, it is true that with the force balance as we have today, Norway will depend on a good external connection through cable to a European and Nordic power market. That's why it's important that we make sure that the wiring is sufficient. These are the plans that Statkraft has on its agenda. I have been briefed on some of the projects that Statnett is working on, and have also indicated to me that this is important to realize. There is a concrete design for different solutions in relation to wiring. As the representative will be familiar with, there are some projects that have not succeeded, but we are planning new ones, and it is Statnet that is responsible for doing this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1173	Question 12 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1187	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1194	This question, from the representative Karl-Anton Swensen to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1197	It is only good that the Minister for Fisheries should answer the question: ‘From 1 June 2002 Norwegian fishermen shall not be notified at night. This means cutting off weather forecasting services to, among other things, fishermen from evening to morning at eight o’clock. The reason is that the Ministry of Education and Research will save 5-6 million. kr of the year, and savings shall be made by the night services. All meteorologists are against this because they believe this will compromise the safety of the fishermen. Will the Council of State take the initiative in maintaining the night service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1206	The Meteorological Institute has as its primary task the weather forecasting of life and values. This task is also laid down in the Statutes of the Institute, and it is the Ministry’s first performance target for 2002. The Meteorological Institute needs to reduce operational expenditure in 2002. This is due to a slight decrease in the appropriations, an expected decline in job and sales revenue, an increase in the costs of operating the “Polarfront” weathership and an increased need for investment in equipment and infrastructure. As part of the total operational reduction, the institution has decided to save 3 million. kr within the meteorological unit. This leads, inter alia, to: a reduction in the night shift of meteorologists, as pointed out in the question. The Ministry has asked the Meteorological Institute to explain the consequences of the reduction. The Foundation underlines that the reduction in night shifts does not lead to any loss of the Institute’s night shift. It's only about going down from six to four watch-keeping meteorologists from about six o'clock. From 23 a.m. to 3 p.m. 06. So there will still be a state meteorologist at night at the meteorological departments in Oslo, Bergen, and Tromsø. They will also be responsible for monitoring the weather in each of their regions and for production responsibility for weather forecasting for aviation. In addition, at night there will be a coordinating meteorologist at the weather forecasting department in Oslo. This meteorologist will have a special responsibility to inform users of important changes in perceptions. As in the past, the general public and the fishermen are given a warning in NRK Pl at 1 p.m. 22nd@item: inlistbox An updated warning will also be provided for the areas within the 200-mile limit in the same channel at noon. 05.45 in force until midnight. The latter is based on alerts drawn up regionally late in the evening before. Meteorologists will pay special attention at night to weather developments that are becoming stronger than previously assumed, including: to ensure fishermen’s safety. The Meteorological Institute will continue to discharge its obligations to issue forecasts of extreme weather. Cooling and storm warnings will be issued at night as before, and the nighttime meteorologists will have special attention to weather developments that are becoming stronger than expected, just to ensure fishermen’s safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1224	I thank you for the answer, but I'm sorry that you don't want to do anything about this. The weather forecasting service at night is now to be served only from Oslo, towards formerly from Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø. We know that Norway has a long and weathery coast and also a topography that leads to a lot of different weather on this coastline. We line the Norway Map and take the Skagerrak-Nordkapp plus Spitsbergen route, it's as if one meteorologist should be in charge of monitoring the entire coast from Skagerrak to North Africa. That's the dimension of this. Does the Council not see that such a dramatic and substantial reduction in the offer of night services, as well as that for boats there will no longer be a possibility of telephone contact with the service at night, is unacceptable from a safety point of view? I just want to make it clear that, from the point of view of the Coastal Party, it is totally unacceptable to shut down the night shift north, where there is so much need for direct contact between the fishermen and this service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1233	I am not sure if the questioner got my first answer, but it is that the situation description he gives is not correct. The organisational changes at the Meteorological Institute do not result in any deterioration of the weather forecast. The system shall comply with the institution's obligation to issue extreme weather warnings. Cooling and storm warnings will be sent out at night, as before. The readiness to calculate the transport of hazardous emissions to air and sea and the assistance to search and rescue are priority tasks and shall be carried out in the event of an accident. Then the sea areas outside the 200-mile limit are covered by their own satellite broadcasts and the so-called Navtex as part of the global GMDSS, the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System, which is part of the SOLAS Convention. Norway has and will continue to fulfil the international obligations we have to issue forecasts within the GMDSS, which are not affected by the reduction of this nightlife service. At the NRC, national maritime communications now go beyond the interwave, the so-called European Channel, and these messages are complementary to the messages I referred to in the report that are undoubtedly important to the national fishing fleet. So my answer is, we don't compromise the safety of the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1242	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Fisheries and I have different views here, because any reduction in resources and staffing will, in my view, weaken this service. And when the professional expert, 98 pst. by the meteorologists, believe that this would compromise the safety of, inter alia: The fishermen, I believe in them. We also know that fishermen operate in very remote areas, and then both the quality and frequency of weather forecasting are extremely important to them. How can the Minister for Fisheries defend that economic, marginal considerations should reduce the quality and availability of this important service without having carried out an impact assessment? Does the Minister for Fisheries intend to take the initiative to re-examine the matter, possibly to defer until an impact assessment, which has not been carried out, has been carried out in this area? From my point of view, I believe that this saving is purely economical, while reducing this important service. This night service cannot be inflationary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1253	I will repeat for the third time that the offer to fishermen, the safety of fishermen, will not be altered by the organisational changes that are being made here. The Norwegian Meteorological Institute assures that this will not weaken safety, it will not weaken the warning of weather and storm to the fishermen, so the description of reality given here does not correspond to the opinion of the responsible authorities and those exercising this service. They shall ensure that the warning will be properly observed and that no changes shall be made to the product obtained from the Meteorological Institute by the fishermen. I therefore stress that this is a description of reality which does not match that of the responsible authorities, namely the Meteorological Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1270	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1283	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1289	‘In a look-up in the Fisheries Bulletin on 9 April, it appears that a fisherman in Group II who has lost his boat in the fall is not allowed to rent another boat in order to participate in the fishing. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change current practices so that fishermen affected by such incidents are not deprived of their opportunities to participate in fishing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1296	Current legislation on access to the conventional cod fishery of Group II does not allow the use of leased vessels. I would also like to consider whether this should change with regard to the situation arising from the accident/lost. I think it is important to bear in mind that a general rule for cod fishing is that a quota should be fished and delivered by the vessel that has received the quota. The access to participate may not be transferred to another vessel. Allowance for the use of a rental vessel is an exception to this. The use of a leased vessel is limited to the so-called access restricted fishing. In the case of conventional cod fishing, this is limited to vessels admitted to Group I. The lease regulation has been and has been strictly practised. The background on which the use of Group II vessels is not permitted is complex. Firstly, group II fishing is open, as opposed to group I. Group II vessels are considered to have cod fishing as a binary and are otherwise regulated, with a different quota system and at a much lower quota level than Group I, consisting of vessels engaged in cod fishing as their main activity. With open access, Group II is a more unintended group than Group I. The number of vessels capable of fishing within Group II is assumed to be 5000 to 6000 vessels, but will vary for each year. For Group I, the number was approx. 2 500 vessels, so here it's more transparent. I also point out that the Storting has decided that we should not have a system of transferable quotas. The lease system poses a certain risk to the purchase and sale of allowances. It is therefore appropriate to be restrictive in introducing, where appropriate extending, systems which could be misused in order to achieve a solution which could involve such purchase and sale. It has been assessed as relatively resource-intensive to allow the use of a leased vessel in Group II. It is this that has underpinned the legislation we have had. The problem triggered by the accident has not been the case in the past for Group II. But that's what makes me think I can go through these issues, and there's not least reason to consider the leasing arrangement for Group II as regards the loss in the regulation of future fishing. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1311	This, I think, was a very good response from the Minister for Fisheries, if the conclusion is also that it will open up access to the use of Group II vessels. I agree with the Minister for Fisheries that this access should be restricted, that it should apply to those who mainly have full-year income from Group II fishing, so that they do not experience a breach of the system which in practice means transferable quotas or that quotas end up on other vessels. But I am very pleased that the Minister for Fisheries has taken this on board. I hope it will be possible to come up with a code that makes it possible not to take the livelihood of the few who, after all, are concerned, who come out in such unfortunate circumstances as what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1320	I'm glad we have a common experience that this is also complicated. I realize that those who have experienced an accident once with loss and total failure do not have to have any further problems related to the legislation, but we have to make sure that the legislation is practical. By the way, I would also like to say that, in relation to the matter to which the question refers, it is that if we move over the ship, the lack of access to the rental vessel in Group II in 2002 would not have any impact on the possible participation in Group I. So for ships outside of today's group I that are proposed to move over, this matter is irrelevant in terms of their ability to benefit from group I fishing. So it's clear, so he doesn't have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1332	In the end, I just want to add that I was not less satisfied with the answer after the latest information that came.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1340	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The stocks of whales’pike now account for about one million tonnes and will increase by an additional 300000 kilograms during the summer. Can the large stocks of blubber cause problems for whaling, and what can be done to find alternative uses for this blubber?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1349	It is true, as the representative Arnesen says, that there are large quantities of whales in stock in Norway. According to the information provided by the department, there are about 1 000 tonnes of whales in stock, so the representative Arnesen is probably not just a little wrong, but a lot of mistakes when he claims that there are 1 000 000 tonnes in stock. But there's perhaps more of a comma error than anything else that's causing that claim. For the last year, the whale industry has considered exports to Japan to be imminent. We are ready to export in Norway. We have taken the necessary decisions in this way, but we are waiting for a clear signal from the Japanese. Several meetings have also been held between Norwegian and Japanese fisheries authorities during 2002, with the aim of initiating exports of whale products to Japan. I was in contact with representatives of the whale industry last week, and was informed again about the challenges posed by the stocks. The Ministry is now carrying out assessments of the issues raised at the meeting, which were already well-known, with a view to implementing a successful catch season this year. The work of normalising the catch of whales and of facilitating a favourable framework for the industry is a priority task for the ministry. The quota for the catch of whales in 2002 is 671 animals, and since on average it is approx. 500 kg of fat on each whale, the representative of Arnesen is entitled to the possibility that this year's catch may result in an increase in stocks of more than 300 tonnes. The Ministry is also working in the longer term to identify new uses of whales’ spokes. Research on cell oil suggests that cell oil can have a beneficial effect on cardiovascular diseases and on rheumatic disorders. Provisional knowledge indicates that whale oil can also have good health-enhancing effects. However, some research remains before we can have the final results and alternative uses can be realised. So my answer is that we work in the short term to solve the stock problem, which, of course, binds up capital for the buyers and makes it difficult for them to carry out the purchase, and that together with the research we look at alternative uses. But we hope and work actively to get exports to Japan started. But that's where we depend on the market and the buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1362	I'm sorry about the decimal error, but I'm glad that the next number was right! I noticed what the Council of State said about what is being done here. But my concern is that you might be prevented in further fishing in the near future because of the amount of blubber. I would like to ask: is it appropriate in any way to destroy the speck in order to get rid of what you do not apply to, while the research is in progress? I agree that this is a health product, so let's see if we can take advantage of it this way. At the same time, I would like to ask: after all, we have heard that the speck is contaminated with pollutants. How do you address that question with regard to the bacon that's in stock?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1371	The catch of wave whales may start on 13 May and shall be completed by 31 August at the latest. In the case of the North Sea, the Fisheries Directorate shall determine the fishing date but shall also be at the end of 31 August. So it's almost imminent. As part of preparing this, I had contact with the Norwegian Raw Fish Team, which is an actor here, at the latest yesterday. We have met with the prisoners as well as with the industry to see how we can help to get the catch going from the authorities, so that there is no shortage of capital for the buyers. We have a good dialogue, and I am optimistic and expect the catch to go. In the case of DNA samples and other samples, this is well started, and this year, too, DNA samples will be taken from each individual wave selection being captured. All tasks relating to the DNA register for wave whales were delegated to the Directorate of Fisheries from 1 January 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1378	I thank you again for the answer, and I am happy that you are working on the matter. But it might be interesting to know how long this bacon can be in stock before it somehow has to out. And how much storage capacity do we have to take care of this until we find a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1383	We can quickly agree that it has been there too long already. On the other hand, there has not been a market up to now, and there is a recognition that both the authorities and the purchasers as well as the fishing cuts have taken over. It works intensely with it. Of course, destruction is one option. The quality cannot be maintained from an eternity perspective, and this binds up capital so that we can in a way threaten the actual capture as such. So the problem is precarious, but there's good contact between the authorities and the industry actors to find a solution. I feel that there is good and constructive cooperation between all the actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1398	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1404	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «Inside. S. No 119 for 2000-2001 and budget-inside. S. No 13 for 2001-2002 an improvement in traffic management and upgrading of E16 in Lærdalsdalen and Fillefjell is requested. Special route Steinklöpp – Øye was highlighted. After a winter with often closed mountain passes east-west, traffic accidents over Fillefjell have increased dramatically, and especially at Eyes. Will the Council of State initiate improvements to this route this summer in order to reduce the large number of accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1413	During the three-year period 1998-2000, two accidents involving personal injury on the Borlaug–Steinklepp–Øye route were reported. Two accidents have been reported on this route in the period 2001 to the present day. Both happened in the winter. I cannot therefore see that it is right to characterize the evolution of traffic accidents over Fillefjell as dramatic, even though of course any accident is serious for those who experience it. The E16 has a significant impact on the east-west winter traffic as a result of good regularity compared to other mountain crossings in South Norway. Under extreme weather conditions, Fillefjell is happy to be the distance that is the last subject to column running and closing. I therefore consider it important to take action to further increase regularity, which will also contribute to increased safety for road users. Necessary measures are anti-slip protection, increased road width and measures against snow drift. The action programme for the national transport plan 2002-2005 has set aside 150 million. kr for remedial actions on the route Eye-Stein flap with implementation in 2004 and 2005. However, funds have not been allocated for this purpose in 2002, nor is there a planning basis for any plant start-up during the summer. The State Road Service in Sogn and Fjordane and Uppland have just completed an overall investigation on the basis of which priority should be given to detailed planning and implementation. I will follow up in an appropriate form the comment of the majority in the Budgetary Section. S. No 13 for 2001-2002, where the majority asks the Government to brief the Government on the plan status and progress, especially on the E16 Steinklepp–Øye route. I intend to inform the Storting about this in the 2003 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1422	I thank you for your answer. I can't quite understand the council when she says that there have been two accidents there. I called Viking in Vang in Valdres today, who has the rescue service up there. In winter they pulled up 250 car combinations. More than 200 of these vehicle combinations have been hauled up and down to Fillefjell. I have to say it quite specifically. Most have been recorded in the Eye of Valdres until the ski lift on Fillefjell. The remaining ones have been taken down against the Borlaug crossing. So the number of accidents referred to here by the State Council shows something quite different than what the Viking Rescue Service has in its Philly. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these 250 are only vehicle combinations. Where, then, has the Council of State statistics come from, when this shows that there has been a dramatic change in the route over Fillefjell in winter compared to the previous one?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1429	The personal injury accidents I referred to are those reported in the way personal injury accidents are to be reported. I am also familiar with the fact that there are a number of car combinations that have ended up outside the road in this area. This is a challenge, both in relation to the specific road section we are talking about here and wintering in general on Norwegian roads. New measures are being implemented to ensure that vehicle combinations are protected for Norwegian conditions. The roads must be suitable for this, but it is also very important that both vehicle combinations and vehicle are protected from the conditions and that drivers are prepared for what kind of driving conditions you can get out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1436	I have an additional question. I think it's pretty bad when the council says that the car combinations should be protected, and that the trailer drivers should be better at driving. Had she been driving the route and seen how the road is, she would have known that it is completely impossible for two trailers to meet up on the Fillefjell with today's road width. I think it is rather bad to suggest that the driver is not competent to drive. Will the Council of State go in and look at the width of the road and look at the accident statistics and the vehicle trains that Viking and others have pulled up? Will she do something about this way, so that we might avoid that there will be serious accidents in the winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1443	I remember, of course, with pleasure that the representative Nistad knows that I am concerned with road safety. Of course, this is also true in this area. I can also assure you that I have driven the route and know what the road looks like. We agree that there is a need to do things with the road. This is why it is part of the National Transport Plan Action Programme. As I said in my first answer, I am going to present the status and progress of the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1455	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the last fall of budgetary management, the Stortinget concluded that there should still be a ferry service between Klockkarvik-Lerøy-Bjelkarøy-Hjellestad in the municipality of Sund. The dispensation for the use of the current ferry expires on 30 April. What has been done by the Council of State to ensure that residents of Lerøy and Bjelkarøy have a ferry service after 1 May of this year.?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1464	The government of Stoltenberg proposed in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 that the national road ferry link Hjellestad-Klockarvik should be closed as a national road ferry link. As informed by the government of Stoltenberg in St.prp. No 1, estimates have been made to show that six national road transport services have too high a personal risk. The Related Site – Klockarvik has been assessed as the link with the highest risk of these six. The safety requirement can only be achieved by new buildings, which will result in a very expensive link. The background to the government’s proposal for closure was the need for efficient use of resources, in particular low traffic base and re-routing options on the national road section of the link. The Ministry would follow up this proposal after the county council and the municipalities concerned were brought to the attention of the matter. The Road Office in Hordaland took the initiative in October 2001 to set up a working group to assess the further functioning of the link. In addition to the Road Office, the working group consisted of representatives from Hordaland County Municipality, Bergen Municipality, Sund Municipality and the operating company HSD Sea AS. The working group has analysed and evaluated alternative solutions for the connection. The Group has concluded that the link should preferably be maintained as a national ferry service and that a new combined boat should be contracted to meet the requirements of the Maritime Directorate for Safety. The conclusions of the working group have now been the subject of a local policy assessment. The County and the municipalities concerned have all decided that the link should be maintained, preferably as a national ferry service, and that a new combined boat should be contracted to the link. The county council of Hordaland took its decision on 13 March 2002. Contracting of a new vessel to the link is now under way. This vessel is expected to be put into operation in 2003. Today’s ferry is exempt from the risk regulation of April 2002. The operating company HSD Sjø AS has applied for further exemption from this regulation of the Maritime Directorate until new vessels are in place. The link will be maintained and funded as a régionalised ferry service throughout the year. In a letter to HSD Sea AS, the Maritime Directorate wrote that the ferry operating today could still be used as a passenger boat after the derogation expires on 1 May. Such vessels are not subject to the risk regulation. The Maritime Directorate has been asked not to require HSD See AS to upgrade the existing boat on the basis that a new vessel is to be contracted. The Maritime Directorate has not yet taken a decision. The final classification of the link will be assessed after the Road Directorate has completed its handling of the case. I am concerned that the inhabitants of Lerøy and Bjelkarøy will also have a decent and good offer in the future, and look forward to the thorough and constructive process that has taken place in this matter after the state budget treatment last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1477	The Government Party does not support the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party in the trade committee in the autumn, so that a decision on the matter could be reached. But after much media pressure and pressure on Right's parliamentary leader, Oddvard Nilsen, the Government's views changed, and the Council of State said during the budgetary management: 'There will be a trip there while a new solution is now being worked out.' This struck the Council of State, and there was a hallelujah mood on Bjelkarøy and Lerøy. But I did not feel that I received any answer as to what was going to happen after 30 April. So the case management isn't done, but the government has said it's going to go on vacation. I want to confirm that there will be a ferry that will take care of the needs of the inhabitants of Bjelkarøy and Lerøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1484	I have to deal with the safety regulations that exist, and the Maritime Directorate has said in a letter to HSD Sea AS that the ferry operating today could still be used as a passenger boat after the derogation expires on 1 May. Such vessels, which could be used here as a passenger boat, are not covered by the regulation. There is then an answer to what possibilities exist per person. today. When it comes to the question of classification, it's something we'll get back to when the Directorate of Roads has come up with their input.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1491	I thank you again for the answer, but all the proceedings and so I can – I have gone through it many times. But I still have questions when the council says there will be a trip there while a job is coming up with a new solution. The Council of State now says that only passengers can be present, and not cars. My question is, what can the Council of State do with HSD Sea AS so that they can install a new ferry? This isn't an island community out of the ocean, it's half an hour from the Bergen Center. There are 80 people there, and they depend on travelling on work to Bergen, depending on a ferry offer where they can also take their cars, because it is not possible to park them on the mainland either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1496	I think it is important that there is a good offer for those who live there. As has now been pointed out, it is possible to operate passenger services. I would like to go in and look at the solutions that can be found to meet the needs of car traffic. We should look at those possibilities, but at least there is an opportunity to operate passenger services, as the Maritime Directorate has given us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1504	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘On Monday 15 April, the contested signs at the winter speed limit were taken down along highway 2 in Hedmark. This is another week after it was forbidden to drive with high-lift tyres. Is the Council of State of the opinion that it must be allowed to use more discretion so that, for example: on that road with dry and good asphalt over a long period of time could be possible to remove them earlier and not at the request of the central authorities.»;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1513	On the basis of the National Transport Plan and the treatment of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, new criteria for speed limits outside densely populated areas were laid down by the Directorate of Road in July 2001. In these criteria, winter-time limits were introduced as a new measure. The criteria provide for the use of winter speed limits as a road safety measure on roads where there is a special winter accident problem and where the speed level is relatively high. Winter-time limits may also be introduced for environmental reasons. The criteria indicate the cases in which such winter speed limits should be assessed, but it is up to each road office to decide where, and when to apply the measure. In Hedmark, on the basis of the criteria introduced in July 2001, speed limit reductions of 62 km of the main road network have been implemented. Of these, 13 km divided by four subdivisions have reduced the speed limit in winter. The Road Manager of Hedmark has chosen to have fixed dates for the introduction and lifting of the winter speed limits on 15 September and 15 April respectively. This is not done on the basis of instructions from the central authorities, as the representative Bredvold claims, but based on a local assessment, inter alia. that it is not unusual for snow to arrive in Hedmark until April 15. The Road Manager may decide, based on an assessment of the local conditions, that a date for the suspension of the spring should be coordinated with the ‘pig tyre date’. Subtitling has been used as an explanation and an indication that these are winter-time limits. I am aware that it will be considered whether the sub-signs indicating the ‘winter speed limit’ should be omitted in order to avoid any doubt that the speed limitation applies as long as the signs are not covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1530	I thank you for your answer. In an article in the Glamdalen of 16 April 2002, the chief engineer at Kongsvinger traffic station, Nils Anders Lund, stresses that «the state roadway services in Hedmark only follow instructions from central authorities». – There's my question coming out. In addition, wintertime limits have been proposed and implemented to reduce accidents, of course. But I'm asking a big question about whether this really has any effect. Personally, I drive such a distance at least twice a week, and I try to keep the speed limit, which is 70 km per hour. I've never been past as much as I've been this winter – I've never seen so many near-accidents, so many aggressive drivers. So my claim is that reducing speed from 80 km per hour to 70 km per hour creates more aggressive drivers. You can also read this in the Glamdalen on 8 April, where it appears that both drivers, rallycross drivers, etc. agree with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1539	It is such that the road manager, or road office, has the opportunity and the freedom to adjust the speed of the roads where the criteria indicate that speed should be slowed down. I also see the challenge in relation to creating unnecessary risk situations because it becomes tempting to run too fast. Of course, there are things that the Road Agency has to assess when setting or lowering the speed limits, for the purpose is to increase road safety. But when you have so far chosen to slow down the speed limits, it is because the accident situation is what it is and tells it to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1544	Hedmark states are, on the same line with many other states, quite large and quite far, and from one end of one state to the other, it might be a month difference in winter and summer. So there's got to be some kind of an opportunity to make sense, just so the Council of State takes it with it. But my specific question is also about this: does the Council of State think it is strange that it is forbidden to drive with winter tyres while we have winter travel restrictions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1549	These are assessments that I think it is important that the professional authorities do, and the professional authorities that are closest to the local challenges. I would be wrong if I were to go through what speed limits should apply where the lead is. Road offices have been given authority to assess this. I believe it is absolutely right that they do, and I trust that they will follow up and adjust, among other things. speed limit according to the local challenges. There are many counties that are long and have different driving conditions, and then it is up to the road office to find the right solutions there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1588	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1602	This question falls away. Questions 27 and 28 have already been dealt with. So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1611	‘The UN Summit on Resilient Development in Johannesburg has a draft final document that is not a real action plan because it contains little important elements such as objectives, timeframes, actions, resources and institutional implementation and monitoring mechanisms. It has been established that Agenda 21 with its specific objectives has not been implemented. What will the Government do to bring up a real action plan for the summit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1618	The government shares the representative Jacobsen's concern about the status of work towards the Johannesburg Summit in September. For this reason, Norway is working with like-minded countries to shift the preparatory work towards a more offensive track with a view to achieving the most concrete and committed outcome of the summit. Among other things, we have taken the initiative for a new draft action plan which is as concrete as possible, including in particular: an indication of the time-limited objectives for implementation and funding. The action plan must focus on a limited number of themes, giving priority to combating poverty. The new draft is expected to be presented at the beginning of May with a view to the completion of the action plan during the last preparatory meeting in Indonesia, which will take place at the end of the month of May/June. Norway has actively participated in the preparations for the summit. In this work, we have focused a particular focus on the links between poverty, the environment and development. Together with other countries and actors, we are now working on new and concrete initiatives in these areas. In particular, we will support actions that contribute to ensuring poor countries and groups of access to renewable energy. We are also concerned with new initiatives for Africa, with particular emphasis on education. The Government will continue to work to ensure that promises and commitments from, among others: The Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development is being followed up and realised. The UN Summit in Johannesburg will bring together leaders from most of the world’s countries. We can't expect to get a full impact on all of our views. However, we must actively work for solutions that are both in line with our own priorities and which have the widest possible support. Without the support of a large number of countries, a final document and an action plan will have little value.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1631	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Foreign Minister says so clearly that one will be investing in poverty and the environment. There is now an initiative from the host country of South Africa. They've created a so-called non-paper and taken an initiative, probably just because they're host countries. There's one in there. is in order to achieve more concrete objectives. Does the Government know about this and can it be willing to support South Africa in taking these initiatives further?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1638	We're familiar with all of the recordings that are in this context. The problem here is not to make representations, the problem is to get them into the final document to be submitted, which is to be presented in May, to be dealt with at a conference in Indonesia at the end of the next month. Norway aims to be very well represented at that summit, just to ensure that this is as action-oriented as possible. And all the other countries that have the same approach, namely that this should be action-oriented, will, of course, have Norwegian support in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1645	I thank you again for your answer. We're talking here about the extension of the Brundtland Commission. We are now, many years later, looking for how to put this into practice. We've got this with Local Agenda 21, which is pretty good in place in Norway. Then we have what the U.D. in its papers operates with as a national strategy. I would rather it be called the national agenda, i.e. the follow-up to these world problems in Norway. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs feel about getting a possible national strategy and really getting behind it in Norway too?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1654	I'm not quite sure what Jacobsen is after, but I understand that he's now solidly away from the question he raised, namely what we're going to do to make the Johannesburg conference a success. If so, I would like to repeat that we are there to seek to be actionable, as Jacobsen asks. Then, of course, the problem is that we are not alone in the world. Here we're going to have other countries with us, so that there'll be agreement on that, and not least that there will be strength behind it. As far as follow-up in Norway is concerned, as Mr Jacobsen knows, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not responsible, and I do not want to take this opportunity to go into the areas of other specialist ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1661	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-24.ana.ud1217e1672	There is no record.
