ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e32	The representatives of Karin Andersen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Synnøve Konglevoll, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e46	On behalf of myself, I would like to make proposals to amend the guidelines for the medically assisted rehabilitation of drug users, with a view to extending the use of medically assisted treatment for drug addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e51	The representative of Bendiks H. Arnesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e54	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Grethe Fossli, Ranveig Frøiland and myself, I would like to propose measures to ensure Norwegian seafarers' stable conditions of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e73	The HK tax was introduced in 1978 as a temporary charge to reduce the turnover of boat engines in general and outboard engines in particular. It has obviously worked, as the sale of new outboard engines has been significantly reduced, from approx. 36 000 in 1978 to approx. 19 000 in 2001. The fee was NOK 30 per person. horsepower at the time it was introduced, but as many other charges, it has increased significantly over the years and constitutes per. today NOK 126.50 plus VAT, a total of NOK 156.85. This is a strange charge that makes boat engines considerably more expensive here than in neighbouring countries. For example, the tax plus VAT will amount to NOK 11 764 of the selling price of a 75-horse stallion engine, an engine size common to a 17-20-foot day cruiser. This is a significant part of the selling price, and when the same engine is similarly cheaper in Sweden, the temptation will of course be great to act there. How big a problem this is, we do not know, but the boat industry itself claims that it is a problem and leads to a weakening of the industry in Norway. But the most important arguments for doing something about this strange charge are those on the environment and safety. The idea of introducing the charge was to get an environmental benefit by dampening the sale of outboard engines. In the short term it is possible that it was the result, but in the longer term – and that is where we are now – it is quite clear that the result has become the opposite. The high charge leads to very high prices for new engines, so it is profitable to keep old engines in operation for as long as possible. As a result, the average age of outboard engines in Norway today exceeds 20 years. So the average engine is old and noisy, with high fuel consumption and high exhaust emissions, and the difference between old and new technologies is pretty significant. For example, a new engine uses only half of what an old user uses at half gas. In the case of full gas, the difference is approx. 30 pst. Similar improvements are also found on the noise side. So it turns out that what was supposed to be an environmental measure over time has become the worst enemy of the environment. It is hardly like that in Norway we have so much fewer outboard engines than we would otherwise have, but those we have, noise more and pollute more. The fee also has another suspicious side, the one that goes on security. It is quite obvious that as the average age of the engines increases, the number of engine failure also increases, because old worn engines are more often broken, and anyone who has been a part of the sea knows that in many situations an engine failure can be life-threatening. The fact that many new boats are also supplied with engines that are really too small to give full manoeuvrability in all situations is also a consequence of the charge that goes on safety. There are many good arguments to remove this charge, which has done nothing but give us old, noisy and low-environmental engines and helped to reduce safety at sea. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the minority, which is reflected in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e88	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e91	Document No 8:147 sets out a number of arguments to remove the excise duty on the recreational boat engine and proposes that the Government should urgently promote a separate plan for the removal of the hp charge. In a letter to the Ministry of Finance, the Directorate of Customs and Fees has commented on some of the objections to the fee, and the Ministry concludes that the fee may not be as problematic as the representatives Svendsen and Monsen claim. Nevertheless, there are enough good arguments to remove the excise duty on boat engines, among other things. such tax relief may improve the environmental characteristics of the engine fleet in Norway in terms of lower emissions of waste gases and in terms of lower noise levels. However, the HK tax is only one of many excise duties that you can wish to remove. The co-operation administration has removed the investment fee, the airline fee and a number of customs duties on industrial and agricultural products. In addition, changes have been made to the VAT system, such as: benefits the boaters by the fact that the rental of private marinas is no longer subject to a fee. The government has promised total tax reliefs in the down payment period of a total of NOK 31 billion. Adopted and proposed reliefs have given a total tax reduction of DKK 17 billion in two years. In other words, the government is well under way in reducing the overall level of taxation in Norway. Document No 8:147 is a strange proposal, because it deals with an individual tax case in parallel with the treatment of the State budget itself. The State budget covers all taxes and charges. The treatment of this type of fee proposal does not, in my view, fall within the scope of individual Document No. 8 proposals, and this type of proposal is easy to see as clean markings without special relevance to the specific issue. This view also includes the proposers and the Coastal Party, which support the proposal, as a matter of course, while the wording of the original proposal was that the Government be asked to submit a plan for the closure of the levy as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2004 government budget, i.e. next year's budget, to submit such a proposal. In addition, it is relatively unusual to present a separate exit plan for a relatively limited excise duty. What are you going to do with your own plan to get rid of the hp charge? If you want to remove this tax, it's just a proposal to remove it in the state budget, and there's no need for a separate plan to make such a decision. I am therefore pleased that the majority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, reject this proposal on the basis of the annual budgetary procedure and that the proposal is annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e102	The representative probably forgot the government parties in that majority, because otherwise, as far as the president can count, there will be no majority of it! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 392]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e120	The Financial Committee has examined Document No. 8:150 for 2001-2002 by Karin S. Woldseth, Kenneth Svendsen, Gjermund Hagesetter and Ulf Erik Knudsen, on banning the publication of tax lists. The publication of tax lists is governed by paragraphs 8 to 8 of the Equation Act and has been practised in Norway at least from the mid 1800s. Some media claim that there has been a practice from the Viking Age. The background to today’s Stortinget proposal is that the proposers believe that today’s use is different from the intended one, which was to ensure a general transparency in order to provide the right equation and that the taxpayers were treated equally. The proposers also refer to the fact that the publication has been the subject of strong criticism from the legal team and from the Data Protection Authority. A majority of the Committee points out that the publication of tax lists originated in entirely different social conditions and was established at a time when both control possibilities, reporting procedures and tax rules were inadequate, and where the tax base could in fact often depend on what individual citizens themselves wanted to state, and where the purpose of the open lists was to give the opportunity to exercise control over their own tax calculation, but in fact also on the justice of others, for example. neighbor's tax level. The majority of the Committee agrees that in our modern communications society, the historical traditions of the scheme are hardly an independent basis for keeping it fully in its present form. Information on other people’s income and wealth relationships, however interesting they may be, is scarcely helpful in assessing whether they are properly similar in today’s society, with detailed tax and Equation rules — most likely on the contrary. The monitoring of its own equation must be carried out today in relation to a comprehensive and detailed set of rules. It is also a fact that all taxpayers are given detailed information about the equation in their own billing, through which they have their best control. Furthermore, it is a fact that a good part of the figures published is not definitive or correct and may be altered during the review procedure. Some of the figures will therefore have very limited value as a comparative basis, and the information value is very small for outsiders. In today’s electronic society, the publication of tax lists, according to the majority’s opinion, is constantly raising new issues and, in part, serious issues. The possibilities of electronic publishing on the Internet at national level give publication a completely different impact than in previous times. The spread is massive and partly uncontrolled as to what the lists are used for, and it has also been argued that modern connectivity could lead to use in the planning of criminal acts. In such a situation, it is therefore important that consideration of the transparency that is still desired in the equation management and transparency on the one hand is balanced against central data protection considerations on the other. The issue of publication of tax lists is not new to the Stortinget. It has been dealt with several times, but there has been no review of the existing legislation or of how the legislation is now in relation to our modern electronic communications society. It therefore seems natural that some of the new issues identified in the notes, as well as, for example, the specific needs of the press for information are addressed in an overall assessment. These are opinions which, in individual comments, are also to some extent shared by the minority in the Committee, but without sharing the majority's conclusion and position on the matter. I expect that the minority will explain its views and proposals in more detail. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that the work already undertaken by the Government in this area, to which the Minister of Finance has also referred in his letter to the Committee of 9 October this year, could provide a good basis for a balanced assessment of any changes that might be deemed necessary, including taking into account the needs of the various stakeholders. The position of the majority to ask the Government to carry out the evaluation initiated by the existing legislation is therefore recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e143	The question of prohibiting the publication of the tax lists, as the rapporteur said, has been discussed in the past, and there was a solid majority at the previous reading in order for us to follow the practices that have existed. That's what we from the Workers' Party came to. We will therefore reject the proposal to prohibit the publication of tax lists, as stated in the preamble. This has a long tradition, and it is a very important principle, among other things. to prevent abuse of power, injustice and mishandling. As regards mishandling, I would like to add that the publication of the tax lists clearly contains errors that can be appealed against. They're not always right when they're out. But there are also other issues that are important to us. Transparency about the tax lists helps to highlight important developments in society that may be unfortunate and that we politicians and society in general need to take a look at, namely the growing difference in material living standards in Norway. It is important to be given the opportunity to make the necessary adjustments. We clearly realize that it may be uncomfortable for some when the tax lists are outsourced, but this discomfort must be weighed against the social values of transparency in this area. The press has dealt with this differently, and it is clear that in the so-called new society with the new media and everything that is being put out, etc., access and dissemination are much greater than in the past. But here one has to focus on one thing or another, and from our point of view, the principle of transparency in relation to public access to the tax lists is emphasised. The commercialization of the tax lists is an unfortunate side, it's quite clear, and we also see that in the cold water of it this can be abused. The new thing that has come to a large extent is that of financial crime. We also see that publishing the tax lists can help prevent financial crime. The letter from the Minister of Finance to the Financial Committee seems to me to give a good description of the situation and the various balances here in relation to the requirement of publicity or not, transparency, etc., and not least in relation to the Human Rights Convention. The Minister of Finance also writes in the letter that ‘The Ministry will carry out a broad evaluation of the current legislation’. From the Labour Party we have to be satisfied with that. We think it is right that the Minister of Finance should launch such an evaluation and probably return to the Stortinget in a suitable document to discuss this evaluation and what decisions should be taken in relation to the new era. However, let it be quite clear from our side that we do not want to go in to ban publication, but we see that there may be unfortunate aspects of today's publication system, and we do not want to reject certain regulations in that case. But that brings the Minister of Finance back to Stortinget after the big review. I take up the motion in the vote on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e160	Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e163	According to the Equation Act, the Equation Offices shall publish it to the public every year when the equation is completed. This list should include: held the name and address of each taxpayer, the date of birth, the determination of the income from the equation, the determination of the equity and the equalisation of taxes. As far as I know, only Norway and Sweden are driving this form of publishing tax lists. But Sweden has limitations that Norway does not have. As the case-speaker had in mind, Norway has had this practice for a long time, for at least 100 years, perhaps even longer. However, during these years, the use of the lists has also evolved into something completely different than at the time of the introduction of the practice. Modern technology has led to the use and abuse of tax lists today in a completely different way from what was previously the case. The complexity of the tax regimes has also led to the fact that the tax lists currently have very little information value. The tax lists may have a great entertainment value for some, but the information value is very small, if they are present at all. The tax lists show net income and net equity. The lists do not say anything about gross income and deductions, e.g. interest rebates. Nor do the lists say anything about what kind of real wealth the individual has. It's with today's tax laws the easiest thing in the world to hide the fortune, for example. by investing in property that normally has an equation value of 20-25 pst. of real value in turnover. If an e.g. has 7.5 million. kr in the bank and buys a 10 million property. kr, with an equation value of 2 to 2,5 million. NOK 2,5 million. kr, has one of its hidden assets. I've had an understanding of that point of view that, among other things. The representative Nordtun came here today, that publicising the tax lists can help prevent economic crime. Such a view and statement must be based on very little confidence in the tax rate and the work done there. It is difficult to see that neighbors and others with only limited information should be able to discover something that the individual Equation Office has with its extensive information and basic material if the individual taxpayer is unable to uncover. When it comes to what the Nordtun representative said, that it was important to get an overview and insight into the development of living standards, etc., it may be right, but this must also be able to reveal independently of the publication of names. This must be possible by providing statistics on the domain. It is clear that the extensive publication of the tax lists is a huge tax on many. It's also my impression that it's not the ones with the highest equation income that have the biggest problem with this. Feedback, on the other hand, shows that there are those with low incomes for which this is most unpleasant, and perhaps especially for their children. It is now a simple matter for a 14- to 15-year-old to go into the Internet and get an overview of what parents of classmates have in terms of income from equations and wealth. And then it's not like the kids of those with the greatest equation income that will feel a dissemination of that information most unpleasant. Modern technology has also led, inter alia, to: the poorest street in the city can pluck out. We've also seen an example of this being done. That this can be a huge tax, for example. for teenage children who live in this street, it should not be difficult to understand. The Progress Party will therefore join the plural position, and we are of course positive that the Minister of Finance will send draft changes to this legislation to general audience before the end of the year. Hopefully this will result in a tightening of today's legislation on the publication of tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e184	This is a matter which has been dealt with several times by the Stortinget on a proposal from the Progress Party, and the Finance Committee and the Stortinget have rejected this every time. This time, the majority has chosen to provide an evaluation of the publication of tax lists. We have nothing against going from time to time through how different schemes are practised and operated, but the conclusion to this is given. There should be transparency about the publication of tax lists. This has public interest, and this is part of the openness of our society. There's a lot of good arguments for that, and I'm going to go over this as well. But I just want to replicate to the previous speaker: it's clear that transparency itself can be a burden. Having an open society with information can, of course, be a burden. It's quite obvious. The price of not having transparency is, in my opinion, much greater and is a much greater burden for society. The size and, in particular, the financial committee should not edit the country’s newspapers or publications, whether on the Internet or where they are, this should be quite up to editorial and journalistic assessments. In my view, it is clear that the Internet and electronic communication provide a completely different opportunity to disseminate this information. That's right. But what's the alternative? The alternative is to restrict the openness of our society, which, in my view, is a much worse answer. The fact that there are many editors and journalists who might have thought through how to present this drug that is available is another matter, but it is fortunately far beyond the Grand Duchy's mandate to edit the country's newspapers. So why is this important? If you think a little bit back, it was a few years ago a lot of interest and public debate around it that many rich Norwegian people were zero taxpayers. How was it possible to be a zero-tax provider with such large assets and such high incomes, the common man and woman asked themselves. This search revealed that it was possible to change the tax system so that some of the big loopholes used by the rich people were sealed. It's true, of course, that the numbers that come out of the equation protocol don't finally say anything about the taxpayer's wealth, income or other things, but at the same time it gives a clue about who has contributed to the community, and who has not. It's also true that there might be mistreatment, and that there might be things in the equation rate even that make these numbers not right. It's also a price for transparency that you actually have to take. For SV, this is important both to prevent abuse of power and to put the spotlight on unfairness in our society. It is also important because it can shed light on developments in our society, and it makes it possible to raise an opinion to create a fairer tax system. That's obviously true, but it can't be used as an argument against transparency that there are weaknesses in our tax system, such as: The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, was inside. If there are errors in our tax system, it's not the option to prevent transparency, but to correct the errors. That's obviously the correct answer to this, which is an important question, also from the point of view of SV. It's also important that you have openness because it means that you have the opportunity to travel this opinion. That it's embarrassing for some people to publish tax lists, I have some understanding, but then it should be embarrassing for them. The truth is that those who think this is most uncomfortable are those who have something to hide. I believe that those who have paid their taxes and otherwise settled their relationships properly, accept that this may have a public interest and should have a public interest. SV assumes that the department's evaluation concludes that transparency is still to be maintained, that there is an editorial and journalistic assessment of how this should be done, that there are no limitations to current practice, and that transparency remains. That is why we have proposed that this should be rejected, but of course we cannot prevent the ministry from thinking about how this should be, so we have not gone against this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e201	This case confronts us with a dilemma between two concerns that the Left is concerned with: openness versus privacy. It also shows the articles that have been in the debate until now. There is no simple weighing, and there are good arguments for both, as the setting also shows. The left will still conclude that openness must prevail initially, but that does not mean that we are uncritical of developments by making tax lists available in new and better ways. I thought that the minority, the Labour Party and the SV, looked too easily at this, and that they have an exaggerated belief that the information that emerges can tell a lot about ‘developmental trends in society that are very unfortunate’. There is a lot of information that does not appear in the tax lists, and there may be errors in them. As you can see from the setting, the Left is in the plural number asking the Government to take a closer look at the need for any changes to the legislation. We are not ready to go on any proposal for a ban on disclosure, but we want to look at proposals that can take account of privacy in a much better way than today, and I think the representative Hagesetter had a lot of good arguments in his speech. I remember the centre party's proposal when things were up in Stortinget last, in the autumn of 2000. It appeared that the tax lists, which today are published for public scrutiny for three weeks, and that the press, credit information companies and others with material needs can have online access to a register with the Tax Directorate containing the same information. This will check the dissemination of the information, which will always be up-to-date. Openness will be taken into account by allowing the audience to see the lists when they are published, and the press can search when needed. We can come back to this when the matter is more detailed, but the Left does not want to take a position that allows it to win or lose one or the other. We want a solution that takes account of both openness and privacy in the best possible way. Therefore, it is positive that the Government of the Minister of Finance will review this complex complex complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e216	I will take the floor again to comment on a few statements by the representatives of Nordtun and Djupedal. This is because continuing publication highlights developments in today’s society and shows some of the differences Norway, and that there may also be a basis for looking at our tax legislation. Equation figures say little or nothing about the differences in Norway. They say something about people having different incomes, but I guess most people know that already. Equation is a mixture of employee income, share dividends, bank interest income, lotto gains, sales gains, etc. In other words, they are totally unsuitable to say anything about what the SV and the Workers' Party call increasing differences in material living standards. But on the other hand, they are very well suited to confuse, and I assume that is also something of the purpose. So I would warn against using this as a basis in a debate about differences and about errors in the tax system. At the same time, I would like to comment on a comment from SV and the Workers' Party that the public searchlight should contribute to quality assurance of the equation work, as stated in the comment, and increase the likelihood of finding errors in the equation treatment. If we as taxpayers were to use this kind of quality assurance to make sure that we get the right equation, I would be very concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e225	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e233	We are then ready for voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e240	During the debate, Mr Monsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest at the time of the 2004 State Budget, to submit a plan for the closure of the fee on boat engines.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the setting up of the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e265	During the debate, Tore Nordtun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:150 [[2001-2002]] Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-07.ana.ud2481e296	There is no record.
