ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e66	The called alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Liv Signe Navarsete, has taken the seat. The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e74	On behalf of the representative André Kukkestad and myself, I propose to introduce the use of water cannon in police weapons instructions, as an allowed tool against violent demonstrations/disputes, and to introduce the use of telescopic baton and pepper spray as standard equipment for operational police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e79	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e91	In winter, Norwegian hospitals experienced a serious outbreak of hospital infections. It has been established that the infection is caused by a type of Pseudomonas bacterium and is derived from the Dent-O-Sept oral brush. Pseudomonas is an soil and water bacterium that is found everywhere in nature and thrives best in a humid environment. The bacteria are found in small quantities in relatively many of us. Pseudomonas rarely causes disease in healthy persons but may cause serious infections in immunocompromised individuals and is an important cause of hospital infections. These infections may be serious, especially for people who are already ill. The infection from Dent-O-Sept has been detected in 13 hospitals for the time being. We already know that 134 people are infected, but few of these patients have had serious infections. Some of these patients are dead, but we don't know if they're dead as a result of this infection or for other reasons. We have to assume that the further investigations will reveal more cases of infection in the coming period. It is too early to draw final conclusions. In the light of the reports I have received, I will report on the work of health authorities on the outbreak and clarification of causes and responsibilities. Furthermore, I would like to make some preliminary assessments and point to actions that are now being implemented in the light of the Dent-O-Sept case. The main focus now needs to be on the fact that patients do not become further harmed, that they receive the treatment, care and information they need, and on preventing something like this from happening again. What's done so far? I received reports from the Health Authority, the Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Social and Health on 17 April. I have today sent copies of these to the President of the Grand Duchy. We don't have a full overview yet. Several conditions may be discovered. I would therefore like to emphasise, at the outset, that the health authorities should seek to reveal all relevant information. The studies continue with all the parties involved. It is my responsibility to make sure that we get to the bottom of the matter, and that the health authorities and specialist health services do what they can to follow up this difficult situation. They've been told that. At the end of February, the Public Health Institute was notified of possible increases in the incidence of Pseudomonas infections. The regional hospitals were asked if there was any increase in the incidence of such infections in hospitals in the region. The central hospital in Rogaland, St. Olav's Hospital, the University Hospital North Norway and Ullevål University Hospital had such an increase. On 8 March, St. Olav's Hospital concluded that the Pseudomonas bacteria at the Central Hospital in Rogaland and St. Olav were genetically identical. The Public Health Institute awaited the results of the Ullevål survey before it could be established that a national outbreak was imminent. On 12 March the Public Health Institute asked all hospitals to report possible Pseudomonas outbreaks, even in the event of a weak suspicion. Several hospitals reported possible outbreaks. On March 18, St. Olav’s Hospital concluded that Pseudomonas from Ullevål was also genetically identical to the bacteria from the Central Hospital in Rogaland and St. Olav. That is, it was a national outbreak. In order to identify the source of infection, the Public Health Institute carried out a comprehensive survey in cooperation with the hospitals involved in relation to all patients who had been identified as bacteria of the outbreak strain. Akershu University Hospital reported simultaneously, on 21 March, that Pseudomonas bacteria of the outbreak strain were also found in them. The following days the outbreak strain was identified in a total of eight hospitals. It was mainly the intensive departments that were hit. The hospitals carried out extensive internal screening and ongoing discussions with the Institute for Public Health in order to find a possible common source of infection. Most cases are from after October 2001, with a peak in December and January. In Northern Central Hospital, infection from the outbreak strain was found in samples taken in May 2001. The Public Health Institute announced on 22 March the Ministry of Health, the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health and the State Health Authority, which immediately notified the county doctors of the outbreak. At the same time, work continued on finding the source of the infection. On 5 April, the Public Health Institute asked all the hospitals involved to investigate Dent-O-Sept. The background was a hygiene nurse at the celebration clinic had sent a discoloured Dent-O-Sept to investigate at Akershu University Hospital. Pseudomonas was detected on the brush. Unfortunately, this bacterial strain was not kept and further investigated. So you didn't know if these were bacteria from the outbreak strain. The laboratory at St. Olav had previously examined Dent-O-Sept without finding Pseudomonas. New brushes were examined. On the evening of 8 April, St. Olav's Hospital found Pseudomonas bacteria of the outbreak strain in an unopened Dent-O-Sept. The public health institution was notified the same evening, and launched the next morning, on 9 April, a series of measures to stop the use of Dent-O-Sept. Other health services and all parts of health services, including community and dental services, were notified through different channels. Pharmacies and wholesalers were notified, as well as the manufacturer, Fast Industrier AS. International systems for alerting infectious diseases and medical devices were used. The press conference was held with a view to alerting the population. On 10 April, the Public Health Institute, the Health Authority and the Social and Health Directorate met to plan and coordinate further work. The Directorate ordered a full monitoring of the outbreak of the Public Health Institute. I immediately asked the three mentioned agencies to report, with a deadline of 17 April. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health, following the reorganisation of the Central Social and Health Administration, is responsible for the supervision of medical devices on 1 January of this year. That this supervision was transferred from the Health Inspectorate to the Directorate is because the professional community in the field is small and should be kept together. Administrative tasks and supervision are therefore placed together in the Directorate. On 11 April, the Directorate instructed Industry AS to withdraw Dent O Sept from the market. On 11 April, the Health Inspectorate asked the Riksadvokat to assess the public investigation in this case. The police district launched an investigation on 12 April at the request of the National Attorney. The Social and Health Directorate was given local supervision at Snøgg Industrier on 12 April. The supervision was carried out by the County Board of West Agder with technical assistance from the Swedish Institute of Public Health and Food Administration in West Agder. In addition, representatives of the Agder police district were present. The monitoring report was issued on 16 April. I'll come back to this later. On 12 April, the Health Inspectorate asked the hospitals to ask the police to request legal autopsy of patients if the death could be linked to the use of Dent O Sept brushes. Following the detection of the source of the infection, the owner of health establishments has implemented a number of measures: all health establishments were immediately and adequately notified of the source of the infection, with notification of the implementation of the necessary measures. It was sent on 9 April to the five regional health companies, for further communication to the hospitals. An information meeting was held on 15 April with the five regional enterprises, with presentations from the Health Authority, the Directorate for Social and Health and the Institute for Public Health. Furthermore, by letter dated 19 April to the five regional health establishments, measures and the exercise of patients’ rights were taken into account. My preliminary assessment of the situation is as follows: The management of the emergency matter worked. The increased incidence of Pseudomonas infections in hospitals has been captured through the monitoring systems and the notification system established for infectious diseases coordinated through the Public Health Institute. Appropriate measures for further monitoring were taken and systematic search for a possible source of infection was carried out. The source of infection was identified. The supervisory authorities have dealt with the emergency case as far as I have been aware, as far as I can see, first of all by ensuring that all the affected persons were notified immediately, by stopping the product, and by the fact that the factory was subject to supervision. The hospital staff carried out extensive screening work, including: to find possible cause and effect conditions. The Public Health Institute coordinated the work and contributed to the exchange of information on hypotheses, findings and studies. My impression is that the work around clearing the source of the infection worked satisfactorily. However, this case has also revealed several issues that are absolutely unsatisfactory. Some of the conditions are serious. It is not unlikely that the problems with Dent-O-Sept could have been discovered earlier. It is now found Pseudomonas in Dent O Sept produced in 1999. There have been several complaints on Dent O Sept as a result of discoloration and leaking packages. The factory has received such complaints several times a year. It is after the problems with Dent O Sept were discovered, that there have been observed discolored brushes back to 1990. In 1999, Snøgg Industrier contacted the Municipal Food Authority in West Agder because of discolored Dent O Sept brushes. Three different bacterial types were detected in large amounts in some brushes. The bacteria did not become type-determined. The Food Authority gave advice to Fast Industries AS on how to stop the contamination of Dent O Sept. Neither Snøgg Industrier AS nor the Municipal Food Authority reported to the health authorities. Fast Industrier AS is obliged to notify such errors to the health authorities, by law of medical devices and their associated regulations. When the manufacturer failed to give such a notification, it was a criminal offence by Fast Industries AS. However, food surveillance is not required to notify when it detects defects in medical devices. Supervision of products such as Dent O Sept falls outside the responsibility of the Food Safety Authority under food law. Nor is food surveillance the supervisory authority in relation to medical devices. In addition to their statutory duties, there appears to be local food surveillance taking on consular missions, as they did for Snøgg Industrier AS. It cannot continue to be the case that municipal food surveillance, which deals with health and the environment, is not obliged to alert health authorities when they discover conditions that could threaten people’s health. In relation to the Ministry of Agriculture's work on the governmentisation of the Municipal Food Authority, the Minister of Agriculture will seek to clarify the various roles that the Food Authority should exercise. The obligation to report a medical device malfunction also applies to the users of the device, mainly the healthcare professional who used Dent O Sept. The scope of application means that the claims made by Fast Industries at Dent O Sept have probably come from health professionals. The Medical Device Act and Regulation came into force in January 1995. There are likely to have been cases where complaints entailed the imposition of failures which should have been notified under the applicable rules. The supervision of Fast Industries revealed a number of infringements of the rules on medical devices. There was also a number of points that do not imply a breach of the rules but that the supervisory authority considers to have a potential for improvement. In the last group, the supervisory authority mentions that the labelling of Dent-O-Sept could be clearer and more consistent. Those involved in the production were not informed of the requirements for the product in the medical device legislation. In the opinion of the supervisory authorities, the company should have guidelines on hand hygiene. This O Sept is a medical device which must be so-called ‘CE’ in order to be placed on the market or put into service. Medical devices are divided into four different risk classes reflecting the risks associated with their use, vulnerability and the body parts on which the device is intended to be used and the duration of its use. This O Sept falls into risk group 1, the lowest risk group. The manufacturer is responsible for the correct classification. The manufacturer must also issue a declaration of compliance of the product with the regulatory requirements. This is referred to as a statement of compliance. The CE marking shall be affixed to indicate that the requirements have been met. Of the relevant requirements in relation to Dent O Sept, the Directorate for Social and Health mentions in particular: ‘Medical equipment shall generally be designed and manufactured in such a way that its use does not impair the clinical condition of the patient or endanger the health of the patient when the device is used as intended by the manufacturer. This means that the equipment must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to minimise the risk arising from accidental entry of substances into the equipment. In this respect, account shall be taken of the equipment and environment in which it is to be used. Furthermore, the equipment and its manufacturing process must ensure that the risk of infection is avoided or minimised for the patient.» Conformity assessment is carried out by the manufacturer himself. The manufacturer is then obliged to issue a technical documentation demonstrating that the product complies with the requirements of the rules. The documentation shall further contain the results of a risk analysis carried out. The manufacturer also has obligations to establish a system for recording and following up experience gained with the device after production. As mentioned above, the manufacturer is obliged to report failures of the equipment. The supervisory authority found the following breaches of the legislation of Snøgg Industrier AS: 1st@item: inlistbox Fast Industries AS has not issued a declaration of conformity.2. There is no written evidence of the hygiene requirements for the part of the production carried out in private homes.3. The technical documentation does not contain evidence that Fast Industrier AS has carried out a risk analysis to assess whether Dent-O-Sept meets the essential requirements of these rules.4. Fast Industries AS have been familiar with defects and defects in the product. Errors have not been reported according to guidelines.5. Following a demonstrated failure in production in 1999, Fast Industrier AS has not sufficiently assured that the failure has been rectified. In this context, it should be noted that Fast Industries AS only partially followed up the advice provided by the municipal food authorities to solve the problem of bacteria in Dent-O-Sept in 1999. At this time bacteria were detected both in the finished product and in the liquid with which the brushes are moistened. Thus, no ex post verification was carried out that could confirm whether the measures implemented by the factory were actually corrective, i.e. that the contamination with bacteria was stopped. It is not unlikely that today’s outbreaks could have been avoided if the rules had been followed. Otherwise, I will note the following: Information to patients and relatives is very important in such a case. The Patient Rights Act expresses, inter alia: in Sections 3 to 2, clear requirements for how this should be done. Patients who may be infected should also be informed whether the situation or whether replacement may be relevant. Hospitals are informed about this through their owners, regional health businesses. It is necessary to ensure that patients who have been infected are provided with the health care they need. Patients who may be infected will be entitled to an assessment within 30 working days or more, according to the Patient Rights Act § 2-2, after referral to the specialist healthcare service, if their health status so requires. The patient’s right to the necessary health care will normally be applied and care for patients in need of treatment. The regulatory framework appears to be essentially satisfactory, with the exception of the lack of reporting obligations from the municipal food surveillance authorities to the health authorities. A notification obligation should be introduced here which applies regardless of the context in which medical device failures are detected. This will be followed up. The rules on medical devices are covered by the EEA Agreement. When introduced in 1995, they led to an increased level of safety for this type of equipment. The problem appears mainly to be related to non-compliance with the legislation. Supervision of medical device manufacturers should be strengthened and more proactive methods should be used. To the extent that there is a need for increased resources, these will be provided. Although supervision is made more proactive and outward-looking, supervisory authorities will be dependent on receiving notifications of circumstances that may be deficient. It is therefore serious when deviations and errors of medical devices are not notified. When discoloured brushes are returned to the manufacturer without notification or follow-up within the hospital quality system, this is not satisfactory. It may appear that the knowledge and awareness of the specific reporting obligation relating to medical devices is too low or that the threshold for reporting in general is too high. In any case, there is reason to consider the procedures related to deviations and errors in medical devices. Here it seems to be a clear potential for improvement. Both the central and hospital quality committees must play a role in this context. Health professionals are required to carry out their work in accordance with the requirements of professional hygiene under the Health Care Act. At this stage, the health oversight has not revealed any irreprehensible treatment by individual health professionals, but will further consider the issue as a health surveillance authority. According to the Specialist Health Services Act, hospitals have a similar requirement for health care. I have noticed that the Health Authority does not finally conclude whether this requirement has been met for the hospitals in all cases. The question seems to be whether it is appropriate to use antiseptic but not sterile devices in the mouth for very sick patients. In this context, I would like to point out that, in its conclusion, the Institute of Public Health argues that equipment used in the mouth does not need to be sterile. However, it must be free from micro-organisms which may cause disease. The further work on this issue appears to be mainly addressed by the actions of the Health and Social and Health Directorates. Here, however, the hospital management also has a responsibility that needs to be followed up in the time to come. A proposal for a regulation on internal control in hospitals and healthcare has been sent to the hearing. The Ministry will assess whether this can be an appropriate tool in the ongoing work on these issues. The focus of the internal control and quality work of hospitals should be given to the protection of infectious diseases. Hospitals and other health care institutions are required to prevent and control hospital infections under the terms of the Code. The regulation imposes inter alia: all health institutions to have an infection control programme. Furthermore, arrangements must be in place for the registration, notification, analysis and reporting of hospital infections. The incidence of such infections is still high, with about 45000 cases per year. Overcoating and other physical conditions may increase the risk of transmission, especially in intensive care units. This needs to be followed up more closely by hospitals in planning and operation. Efforts in the field of general infectious and hospital hygiene, including hand hygiene, must be stepped up. This has been a source of health care and healthcare professionals, and it occupies all health professionals in the country at the moment. And that's good, because that means it's a source of learning. My assessments relating to questions of replacement are as follows: I believe that Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation, NPE, is a good system that takes care of patients' needs for compensation in this case. The compensation scheme makes it easier for patients to obtain health care compensation than the general right to compensation. The rules governing the temporary arrangement are based on a so-called objective liability basis, whereas the general rule under the general right to compensation is that there must be liability. I also assume that there has to be an individual assessment in the individual case. Dent-O-Sept has been used not only in hospitals, but also in old age institutions, in hospitals and in home care. However, the current compensation scheme does not include these services. The new Patient Injury Act will extend the scope of the NPE to institutions in the municipal health service when it enters into force on 1 January next year. I believe that residents of publicly funded old-age homes and nursing homes and patients in the home hospital who may be infected using Dent-O-Sept must be guaranteed the same compensation protection as patients in hospitals who have been so infected. Therefore, in the revised national budget, I would like to ask the Stortinget to agree to extend the temporary compensation scheme to include publicly funded services in old-age homes, nursing homes and patients in home care who have been infected by the use of Dent-O-Sept. This and the increased burden likely to be imposed on the Dent-O-Sept case by Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation is likely to result in a need for increased resources, so that the NPE will have sufficient capacity to deal effectively with the demands made. Those resources should be allocated. I come back to Stortinget with proposals that are necessary, linked to this. Moreover, I should like to note that Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation could promote recourse to Fast Industry AS in accordance with the ordinary compensation rules. So something about further action: An infective situation of a type has arisen that should not occur. I have an overall responsibility for health care in Norway. In this situation, it involves: to immediately stop the use of the dangerous product and implement measures to prevent its use in Norway and in other countries to ensure that full pressure is placed on the work to obtain an overview of all aspects of the scale of the case and to investigate and implement measures to prevent its reoccurrence; It is my responsibility to ensure that the implicated parties implement the concrete actions necessary to follow up the acute situation. My responsibility also includes monitoring the situation and the work done by each actor and by the actors as a whole. Each must evaluate its efforts with the aim of maintaining a high level of preparedness and effective infection protection. I want a special look at the conditions I have mentioned in the assessment here. I will take the measures and promote the proposals necessary to extend the temporary patient compensation scheme as I have outlined. I want to ensure that the weaknesses revealed in the hospital reporting procedures are followed up, including using the department's ownership position for this. I am aware that the Health Authority has met with the professional interests to follow up the case, and the professional interests are actively involved in this important work. I want to include the Food Safety Authority in the obligation to notify related to medical devices errors in line with what has been said above. Furthermore, I would like to assist the Minister of Agriculture with the experience gained in this matter so that they can be taken into account in the reorganisation of food surveillance. I would also mention that the Government of St. Prp. No 54 for 2001-2002, which is being treated in the United Kingdom, has proposed strengthening the Notification System for Infectious Diseases, MSIS. By doing MSIS electronically, you will, among other things, be able to reduce the time required to detect outbreaks of infectious diseases. I would like to make a legislative proposal during the spring proposing that the Health Inspectorate should be given a sanction authority when supervision orders are not complied with. The use of Dent-O-Sept is likely to lead to contamination with the bacterium in question also in old-age and infirmary homes. Those living in old-age and sick homes are likely to be less susceptible to serious infections with this bacterium. With the exception of respiratory patients, in most cases their ability to counteract such infections is not reduced in the same way as in intensive patients. To date, almost exclusively in intensive patients, serious infections with this bacterium have been detected. If it is demonstrated that the use of Dent-O-Sept has caused infections in people living in old-age and sick homes, this will be followed up as in hospitals. The Minister of Social Affairs will send a circular to the municipalities and inform them of the situation, including the rights of patients and the behaviour of municipalities. The Central Health Administration will undertake the following actions: The Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health will maintain the ban on stoppages in the production of Dent-O-Sept until the manufacturer can demonstrate compliance with the legislation and that the production process is free of microbiological contamination.The Executive Board will control other products of the same type as Dent-O-Sept.The Executive Board will supervise other products of Snægg Industri AS.The Executive Board will, in the context of the ongoing review of the Food Safety Code, assess the role of municipal food surveillance in relation to medical devices authorities.The Directorate-General will generally step up the supervision of medical devices, including tightening up the level of reporting obligations. A plan for the exercise of supervision will be completed by 1 June.The directorate will follow the regulation on infectious diseases in health institutions – hospital infections.The directorate will, based on the input from the Health Authority and the Institute for Public Health, assess whether the significance of the oral cavity in the context of infectious diseases and the knowledge of the dental services about this has been adequately implemented in hospitals. Similarly, the directorate will assess the need for a broader professional review of good oral care practice for respiratory patients.The directorate will assess the need to develop national professional guidance on oral hygiene for special patient groups, including respiratory patients. Based on supervisory experience, the Health Authority in its report found particular reasons to highlight the lack of isolation capacity in Norwegian hospitals and the increased risk of transmission of infection in hospitals that have regularly high overburdens and many corridors. In relation to infectious diseases and the current situation, there is particular concern about the situation in intensive care units. Health supervision will therefore carry out supervision in some of the intensive departments in question, with the help of foreign professional auditors. The National Institute for Public Health continues its efforts to identify infection patterns and spreads in order to detect their extent. Furthermore, the National Institute for Public Health continues to work to identify and manage the patients that have been infected. As I said, hospitals in this context have an important responsibility for information and follow-up. I have organised a separate follow-up group in the department responsible for the overall follow-up to this matter. I want to inform the Storting about evolution in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e282	The President will propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one 5 minute post from each group and possibly a final statement from the Minister for Health. – No objection has been raised against this procedure and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e287	The Health Minister's statement confirms that we are faced with a very serious case, which requires both full clarification of the cause and, as far as possible, that the consequences for patients of these very unfortunate and unacceptable circumstances are also revealed. From the Minister of Health’s statement, it is clear that the emergency matter was managed efficiently and appropriately. Both patients and the population have consistently high confidence in health services and clear expectations of getting the best treatment. The Dent-O-Sept case is strongly influenced by the credibility of the healthcare system in areas such as: relate to the quality of health services. I would like to say: Few of us have probably thought that it might be associated with danger seeking contact with the health care system. The Dent-O-Sept case is a scandal. I cannot fail to use such a strong word when we see the effects of it. In this case, there has obviously been a failure in several paragraphs. What has failed with the manufacturer? The procedures and measures for safe production have been far too poor; the Minister of Health has clearly explained this. What control mechanisms do health care systems differ in that equipment and materials are not hazardous to health? It seems quite unreasonable to be able to discharge itself of responsibility for this and to place responsibility unilaterally on the manufacturer. I am very pleased with the clear statement made by the Minister of Health in relation to the hospital's own responsibility for following up, among others. through the obligation to notify. Then you have to ask yourself, where have the supervisory bodies been? These organs could not have gone past the fact that patients have become seriously ill because of conditions that have no connection with the disease for which they were seeking treatment. I think this is very serious. These are three serious conditions in which the failure, as I see it now, has been of a fundamental and serious nature, and which should have prompted the thinking and reaction of the various parties. The question that needs to be asked is: what has been done to ensure the proper functioning of the supervisory systems? We can ask ourselves: is there a lack of funding, is there a lack of competence, is there a lack of routine? The result of the failure is fatal, as we are now familiar with it. In the wake of this case, there is yet another fundamental question that requires attention in the future, which the Minister of Health was also concerned with: are there other issues of a similar nature, yes, perhaps of an even more serious nature than the Dent-O-Sept scandal? I assume that the supervisory systems are now actively looking for areas that need follow-up and investigation. It can't be that patients' lives and health are put at risk because of slurry and neglect – because there seems to be enough of these elements in this case. The Patient Rights Act gives the patient rights that need to be fulfilled by the hospital owner, that's quite obvious. And that's all the reason why the infectious disease law, which we've had for many years, has to be taken seriously by the hospitals, not least. The Patient Compensation Act must obviously apply throughout the area of health, also in relation to this issue we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e304	Initially, I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a useful and informative statement on this very serious matter that the Dent-O-Sept case has unfortunately proved to be. Because it's something that the Dent-O-Sept case has revealed, that's what the few of us thought could happen. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister of Health has acted in a very neat and transparent manner in my opinion in this matter. In addition, I find it reassuring that the supervisory authorities seem to have dealt with the matter in such a way that the supervisory authorities will deal with such matters – that full investigation has been carried out, that the product was immediately withdrawn from the market, and that the affected and related persons were informed early about the case. The fact that the Minister of Health quickly took responsibility both for finding the reasons for and for cleaning up what has happened in the Dent-O-Sept case is important. The clearance that appears to have taken place in relation to the relationships related to the question of compensation in relation to the relatives is positive. And, not least, it is positive that the Government wants the patient compensation scheme to include sick leavers in this case, which they would not actually be subject to as the new legislation only enters into force in 2003. Lessons must be drawn from this matter. It's e.g. It is very critical that a food surveillance body that has carried out a laboratory test has failed to ensure that the measures at the factory were implemented, nor has it informed the authorities of its findings. It can't be like that. On the contrary, it must be that conditions that should and must be reported are, in fact, also reported, so that situations like this do not happen again. It's not about finding scapegoats, it's about making sure that relationships that can and should be discovered are, too. In this respect, I am also pleased that the Minister of Health has signalled a change in the rules to avoid food surveillance being on important information without passing it on to appropriate authorities. In some situations the obligation to notify to health authorities may therefore appear to be a sensible solution. As the Minister of Health himself pointed out, it is important and necessary to put full pressure on the work to get a comprehensive overview of the matter, because it seems that we hardly have it right yet. It's important to get all the facts on the table. What becomes extremely important in the future is that routines and guidelines are properly reviewed and that changes are implemented so that patients’ lives are not at risk. Unfortunately, what has also been revealed after this case is that there are still too many hospitals that do not seem to be good enough for such an elemental thing as hygiene and infection protection, and that is thought-provoking. We can't accept that sick people get even sicker from being in hospitals because of the lack of follow-up of their own routines, which also concerns hygiene. Because I assume that the routines are essentially there, they're just not followed up in a good enough way. Therefore, an important task for the health system in the future must be to address what has been revealed in a constructive way. As I have already pointed out, it means that the health care system needs to review its procedures, the procedures need to be changed if necessary, and they need to be further developed. And perhaps most importantly, the routines have to be followed. This means that a good quality assurance chain needs to be developed so that we also have control mechanisms that capture any failures if the procedures are not followed up properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e319	Let me begin by saying that I am pleased that the Minister of Health on his own initiative now came to Stortinget and presented the health scandal with the Dent-O-Sept brush. And let me go on and tell you how pleased I am with the quick, resolute attitude the Health Minister took to clarify the scale of the scandal, which, unfortunately, was devalued both in the Institute of Public Health and in the Directorate of Health. I have also noted with satisfaction that the State Health Inspectorate of the Health Director has followed up the health minister's initiative to clarify the matter, and brought on the table the information the Minister of Health has now provided to Stortinget. However, it is my recommendation to both the Minister of Health and State Health to continue to get to the bottom of this case, and to carry out a thorough investigation at the public hospitals, where there has been a report of suspected infection from patients discharged from some of these hospitals that have the infection. Of course, the manufacturer of this special mouthbrush has a significant responsibility for the scandal. But it's not my job to go into this. On the other hand, I would like to say clearly and unequivocally that here the Norwegian health services and hospitals must take a separate responsibility for what has happened to the infection of patients by using a sterile aid for oral and swallowing care in poor patients with a weakened immune system. The mucous membranes of the mouth and throat in these situations are very easily susceptible to foreign bacteria, which in a very short time are transmitted directly into the bloodstreams. I have to say that I am questioning the professional responsibility when Norwegian hospitals have been able to do so. Most Norwegian hospitals today have a constant covering of Corridor Asians, which is also a peculiar feature of Norway. In such circumstances it is particularly difficult for caregivers to maintain good hygiene. Sooner or later, we had to expect an infection bomb to come. This has not least been written several times by the State Health Authority. In the wake of this infectious scandal, it is natural that there is a significant number of claims for damages against hospitals and, where appropriate, hospitals. And it's my strong advice, which I also understand the Minister of Health will follow up, that he helps to make these damage settlements liberal, and that the injured patients not on the top of the infection will also fight an unnecessary, bureaucratic struggle in the substitute to get their legal compensation. Unfortunately, we see a little too much of it today. Finally, I would strongly recommend to the Minister of Health, after the experience we have now gained, to instruct regional businesses to remove the corridor patients as quickly as possible. If necessary, the Minister of Health in the coming State budget must ensure that the extension of medical bed posts where plans are available and where plans are available over several years. We can no longer accept to have corridor Asiates lying, with the risk of infection this represents at any time in our public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e336	I would first of all like to say that I am satisfied that the Minister of Health, both in today's presentation and in the media, has in the past been quite clear that he is responsible for what has happened and, above all, responsible for cleaning up. This case, which is a scandal, gives reason to ask a lot of questions, and these questions need, as SV sees it, both clear and quick answers. The first concerns the company Fast Industries, which manufactures the mouth brushes, and, of course, all other manufacturers of medical devices. What are the requirements in relation to the quality and hygiene of products imposed on such establishments by health authorities or other authorities? What requirements and requirements in relation to reporting and non-conformities are imposed on such undertakings? And what control and surveillance procedures do the authorities have in relation to these types of manufacturers? These are absolutely key questions when we are going to clarify the responsibilities of this case. It is quite obvious to me that if there are not enough rules and quality requirements for manufacturers of such equipment, this must be put in place as soon as possible. The Minister of Health has now confirmed in his statement today that the rules exist, but that they have not been complied with. This is very serious. At the same time, it is therefore essential for the relevant supervisory authorities to have control and supervisory procedures vis-à-vis such manufacturers which ensure compliance with rules, requirements and requirements. The public must also have clear and rapid sanctions to deal with when faults and deficiencies are discovered. In the SV's view, it is not good enough to rely on the company's own internal control procedures to ensure quality, and that is the best evidence. Another important issue concerns hospitals and other health institutions such as users of this product, and the responsibility they have to ensure the quality of the products they apply to some severely ill patients. Furthermore, what obligation to notify them is, and is, imposed on health authorities when irregularities are detected, or when it is suspected. According to the Evening Post of 18 April this year, there were already in 1999 reports of discoloration of Dent-O-Sept from Norwegian hospitals to Snøgg Industrier. But as far as I know, none of them reported this to the supervisory authorities, neither to the county doctors nor to the health services. It is, in my opinion, totally unacceptable. And it shows one of two things: either the rules and procedures for reporting are not good enough and clear enough, or they are not followed up by hospitals and other institutions. SV expects the Minister of Health to clean up this situation, providing clear rules, clear responsibilities and a careful and systematic follow-up to the actual follow-up of instructions and procedures. And as I interpreted the Minister of Health, he also wants to do it. In this case, the Food Authority has also played a central role. As the case appears, in this case the Food Safety Authority has acted more as a laboratory that has carried out a mission for an enterprise than as a public oversight body. It illustrates an important dilemma for a public oversight body, which the Food Safety Authority is: they act as a public and independent supervisory body at one moment and carry out tasks for private companies at the next – as part of their own internal control and quality assurance work. I agree with the Minister of Health that the Food Safety Authority must have a duty to notify, no matter what role they play. But then the question is, what about other laboratories, private laboratories, which also take such assignments? Should they be subject to the same reporting obligation in relation to the authorities? With regard to the question of compensation, I am pleased that the Minister of Health has said today that he will ensure that Norwegian Patient Damage is applied, and that he will propose a framework that will enable them to cover these damage. So to sum up, it's my clear opinion that to ensure that similar tragic events happen again, we need a review and a tightening of regulations and procedures at all stages of the chain, from the manufacturer through the users, that is. hospitals and other institutions, of the public oversight system. SV has expectations that the Minister of Health will ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e357	The Christian People's Party believes it is right and important that the Stortinget has been informed about this very serious matter. Something has happened that should not be possible. Sick and helpless people have been put on bacteria in a context where we all have to expect that we are careful about this. My thoughts and my compassion go to all the patients and relatives who are affected by this tragedy. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is giving this statement to the Stortinget. It is about restoring confidence that patients can receive quality treatment and can feel safe in Norwegian hospitals. It is very positive that the Minister of Health has taken action and responsibility, both by stopping the source of the infection and by obtaining facts — and by responding to those who have been affected. I am thinking, then, that an all-in-new national budget will ask for the consent of Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation to include publicly funded services outside hospitals, so that patients in old-age homes, in nursing homes and in home care infected with the use of Dent-O-Sept can be compensated. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that a teacher learns something of this, even though it is a painful lesson. We believe it is positive that the Minister of Health emphasises so strongly that action should be taken to prevent similar events from happening again. We need to be sure that healthcare takes its responsibility seriously in developing internal control procedures. It is a cross of thought that bacteria can move between patients and health professionals because one does not wash equipment and hands thoroughly enough and often enough. I'm concerned about the situation in the intensive care units. It is serious when the Health Authority announces a lack of isolation capacity in Norwegian hospitals, and that there is an increased risk of transmission due to overcoatings and the many corridors. Today’s case clearly shows that notification procedures and supervisory procedures need to be improved. It is worrying that neither the Fast Industries nor the Food Safety Authority reported to the health authorities, although everything was detected in 1999 in the finished product and in the liquid in which the brushes were moistened. No subsequent checks were carried out. When discolored brushes return, the warning lights should flash. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will take a closer look at procedures related to deviations and errors in medical devices. This case has been tough for many, not least for owners and employees of Fast Industries. To the locals, they're talking about traumatic feelings. «It is bad to know that the company in which we are happy has caused people a lot of problems,» says a trusted friend of the Fatherland. The case has had many negative ring-effects. The Minister of Health has given us today the hope that routines, control and attitudes will change for the better. One has to make sure this doesn't happen again. We've seen how failure can have major and tragic consequences. Fortunately, however, we have also seen that today's monitoring and reporting systems have, despite all the criticisms, worked. The bacteria were found, and one can initiate measures to avoid new Dent-O-Sept cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e374	This is a very serious matter, both the concrete Dent-O-Sept case and the fact that it is now clear how high the number of hospital infections in our country is per year. years. 45,000 patients receive hospital infection every year. This represents approximately 180,000 days of hospital, day of lay. That cost is great in itself, but the suffering to those who are exposed to it is the most serious thing about it. Seriously ill people have been exposed to serious additional diseases in this Dent-O-Sept case, which may have fateful consequences. And it's fatal. Of course, we should discuss how these fatal cases should be followed up, with patient damages, etc. But first of all, we need to learn from this, from getting better practice and avoiding that happening again. I think the Minister of Health's statement was good, and that there has been a good deal of handling of this urgent matter, since it came to light now on the autumn winter and until today's date. However, I think that there may still be a bit of a strange blur over what has happened specifically in the Dent-O-Sept case, from 1990 through 1999 until today. I would like to want to clarify something more about what has happened, perhaps especially from 1999 until February to March this year. Obviously, our supervisory arrangements are not good enough. But I think there's a reason to focus on another thing too when we look at the number of hospital infections today, and that's the strong focus and stress we have on improving efficiency and saving in the healthcare system. There has been a great deal of progress in resolving waiting lists and in maximising production and efficiency. What results from poorer quality assurance and poorer clean-up procedures, and from things that should be a matter of course in the context of health and disease? I say this because it is part of the self-criticism that granting authorities also have to take. This is not criticism that is primarily directed at personnel. I think that the individual institution, up to the decision-making authorities here in the house and in the government quarter, has to take inward that if we want quality and safe quality, it costs money. Then we've passed our laws, we've passed the law on infectious diseases, we have control of production and products, we have food control and the law on medical devices, within this. Obviously, there's also a reason here to take some lessons now. The fact that the Food Safety Authority points out obvious weaknesses, and that it is not going on because you are not required by law to do so, is clearly a failure and a weakness here. Food surveillance is now to be transformed, and it is important that we get better practices on this. As regards the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to medical devices: what do personnel and institutions do in this context? This has been mentioned before with professional care and corridor Asians. I believe that it has something to do right away as I have mentioned before, the economy and the stress of efficiency. It is quite a long time since individuals were famous to point out that barselfeber might have had to do with poor hand hygiene. I think we might need to have such a review again and look at what we need at least to have quality assurance at the bottom in order to avoid having the high number of hospital infections that we have today. It is good that this is now also seen in relation to the area of old-age homes/homes and open elderly care. Patient's damages come in. But what happened between 1990 and winter 2002? Are there other issues that should be addressed here? We should get to the bottom of this case and prevent similar events, or can happen, as well as generally reduce the high number of hospital infections that we have here in the country. We've been talking about an invalid investigation commission on what's happened here. I don't think there's any reason to bring it up today after the Minister of Health's statement. I think it was very good about what happened in the last few months. But I think that more needs to come up, and I have then trusted that the Health Minister will put it into what I want, when he says that he will inform the Storting properly in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e395	I mainly share the assessments and fully share the seriousness that has shaped all the posts in the hall today. I think there is reason to stress that the situation, as it is described, prompts all concerned, all instances, no matter what label they wear, goes in itself and asks with open mind and with humility: what could have been done differently, and what should be done differently in the future? I'll help with that. I will help to get to the bottom as far as possible. I have asked all responsible authorities to do what is within their powers, both in terms of clarifying and in relation to lighting and putting in place measures, in order to avoid repetition. There are still questions, as several of them also pointed out, that it is not possible to answer today. This is precisely why it is important that we do not draw the final conclusions either, but keep the possibilities open so that we can get new and different knowledge from what I have explained today. At the overall level, we want to assess the relationship with the legislation. There is a regulatory framework based on the EEA Agreement underpinning medical devices. We do not see immediate reasons to take the initiative to change it, but we will look through the professional bodies at the professional guidelines, and we will, as I said, make changes to the reporting obligation that I have notified. Supervision of medical devices will be strengthened. It will be more proactive and, if necessary, more resources will be allocated. I fully agree with the representatives who have highlighted the individual responsibilities of hospitals and the need to raise awareness of infectious diseases in general, and the obligation to report in particular. It will be followed up. I also agree with Mr Alvheim that hospitals now need to focus heavily on removing the corridor patients, and they need to do so not only when the Minister of Health visits, but they need to do so as a general measure. It is one of the most focused assignments that hospitals have in the newsletter that they have received for the current year. It will be followed up by the owner. Let me conclude by saying that I also share the view that, in addition to the focus on quantity in hospital treatment to get rid of waiting lists, we need to get a stronger focus on quality, and we need to get better at measuring quality. That is why the Social and Health Directorate is now working with the hospitals to develop quality indicators to which we can both measure hospitals and follow them up. I'm going to get closer to Stortinget in the other context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e412	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Health on the findings of infectious bacteria on the product Dent-O-Sept be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e428	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e439	Let me begin by thanking the Committee for a thorough and good work on the media communication. The Committee has made a good contribution to the field of action. A number of consultations have been held and the Committee has gained knowledge from leading media researchers and media technology specialists. The message, issued by the government of Stoltenberg, puts the press policy in the main focus. In a historical perspective, this is natural, the press has played – and continues to play – a central role in our democracy. However, the Committee sees that strong technological and social developments lead to other media strengthening their position. Radio, TV and the Internet are becoming increasingly important, not only as a channel for entertainment and debate at national level, but also as an arena for opinion formation and public debate at local level. This development is taking place quickly, and the Committee therefore supports the intentions of the communication that we will have to re-examine media policy in a few years' time. It will then be important to see the field more comprehensively and with greater emphasis on media other than the newspapers. Although there is a fairly large degree of agreement on the objectives of media policy, we see that the parties in the choice of strategies and instruments represent significant political differences. I assume that the other parties will present their positions within the individual areas of the notification, and I will continue to have the Right View as a starting point. The right is that the party will now, as in the past, call for freedom of expression and media participation in the development of our democracy. Diversity, editorial independence and public participation opportunities are important prerequisites for independent opinion formation. The presence of debate and constructive societal criticism is a prerequisite for the development of a vital society. Without debate, no democracy! An important starting point for the Right is that the media must be independent of the State. Charges or support schemes must not lead the media into a dependency that interferes with the ability to criticise the rulers. The press, through much of its history, has had to fight for the condition of freedom of expression — yes, fortunately they are still on the table when issues of public law or transparency in public decision-making are on the agenda. Financial support over time can bring the media into an unlucky dependency relationship, be it in relation to the criticism they will address to their economic supporters in the policy, or in relation to their own credibility to the audience. In particular, in the light of this, the Right has previously been against the continuation of the press support. However, due to the confirmation by the Sem Declaration that production aid for the newspapers will continue, the Right will not propose any changes to the current system. However, within the current framework, the Right considers that there is reason to strengthen the smallest newspapers that receive a disproportionately small proportion of local aid in relation to their local importance. Another important prerequisite for freedom of expression is to stimulate diversity. So far, the political focus has been on the number of newspapers published in Norway. Of course, this is important, but evolution suggests that we are now staggering a policy based on a holistic approach, including radio, TV and the Internet. Demands for diversity and quality must apply to the entire spectrum of media, and the policy instruments we use must not distort the competitive relationship between them. Another important perspective in media policy is the extent to which most people have the opportunity to participate. The reader's letter columns and the possibilities of sending in chronicles have so far been an offer that nationwide radio and TV have not been able to compete with the newspapers about. However, the development of local radio and local television will create a completely different proximity between the audience and the TV station. Local news outlets, debates, call-in programmes, etc. will also make these media interesting venues for the development of opinions. Local radio and local TV have a long way to go in developing good forms of organisation, strengthening their financial base and developing editorial concepts. In the coming years, it must be an important task for local radio and television to also provide framework conditions that enable them to improve their economy. This is not least about predictability in relation to frequencies, improved performance opportunities and otherwise equivalent conditions to those of its competitors. First of all, it is positive to note that there is a political majority in favour of a relaxation of the rules on loss of pay for radiobingo and the use of live sponsorship posters on local television. It is also the hope of the Right that by opening up a new nationwide radio channel, cooperation forms can be established within the radio area that also strengthens the local link. Access to frequencies is a scarce asset that has been lying like a damp hand all over the radio and TV field. The development of digital radio and television ground networks and the development of broadband-based communication provide prospects for significant improvements. It is Right's intention that, as new technology makes it possible, we can open up more channels and thus increase the diversity of the ether. In this context, we will also point to the importance of access to broadcasting capacity, free of charge or very low prices for local actors, life-vision channels and other ideal-based channels. An important cultural policy tool related to the planned digital television distribution network is control of the electronic programme guide. This applies not only to NRK and TV 2 but indirectly also to other Norwegian programme producers. Already today, satellite-based distribution, in particular targeting Norway, is systematically closing out NRK channels. An example can be found in Viasats miniparbol advertisements. It is tempted with the very best entertainment – everything from A-VM in ice hockey to the film "The Woman Wants". The point in this context is not what is sent, but that the channel has an actual and probably commercial interest in excluding NRK from the transmission form. With a still unadvertised NRK it will probably not be the only one in the future. The audience shall and will have real options. We know that the choice is also largely about availability. Our task must be to ensure that Norwegian-based media are also as easily accessible as international commercial stations. The public shall easily access Norwegian-produced TV, without international distributors being able to sort the selection on the basis of purely commercial priorities. On several occasions, the right has focused on specific challenges and opportunities of use of the Internet. In this debate, the representative Sjéli will later come back to the Right’s views on this matter. In the future media image, the role of the public broadcaster will be more complex than today. Right-wing ambitions for the NRC are that the institution will continue to be one of our most important cultural policy tools and a locomotive in the production and dissemination of Norwegian-based radio and TV. If we're to succeed in this, as owners, we have to let the NRK develop into a modern media company that is in the forefront of, or at least in line with, development. This requires freedom to move continuously, where decision-making processes must be quickly and firmly justified on a professional basis. It is not useful with an unforeseeable owner who, on the basis of political motives, will interfere in the business at a detailed level. On the right, through the organisation of the NRK, we believe that a limited liability company has found an appropriate form of governance. The work now under way to further deepen the concept of public broadcasting is a positive contribution to provide the basis for the Storting to stick to the overall principal aspects of the NRC’s activities. The right, on the basis of a legitimate fear of retail regulation, is skeptical of the Workers' Party's proposal for a separate general broadcasting poster. The leadership proposed here will be invited to indirect detailed management by Stortinget and become a threat to the NRK’s operations. Another key point in relation to enhanced diversity and qualitative tension in the media is the law enforcement of editorial independence. The right of the editor to establish the profile of the medium, to take its positions and to be responsible for its content is currently a fairly limited number of questions. The press story can tell us that this was also a long way to go. Without the help of the State, the press has identified important distinctions, the role of the editor being clarified, regardless of the economic interests of the owners. The press as an industry deserves tribute for its ongoing work to draw up the principal framework for its activities — expressed in the «Editor’s poster» or in the press’s «Be careful» poster. It is highly desirable that the self-justice and well-targeted line of press organisations have prevailed, also becoming the norm for a future Media Norway, where other forms of expression are also a natural part of the whole. To point out a course and underline this, the Right ends with the media communication proposal that the editorial staff be legally independent. For the Right, it is also natural to see the law enforcement of editorial independence in relation to the issues raised regarding the current ownership law. Today’s ownership law was given primarily to ensure media diversity. Experience so far has shown us that it is doubtful whether this type of regulation is still appropriate. Independently of legislation, mediaeques have also developed in Norway. The situation around many parts of the country today is that there has been a firm situation, where ownership constraints prevent natural development and important structural changes in the industry. For example, this relates to the development of the advertising market or to the possibility of refinancing crisis newspaper companies. It is clear to the Right that a further positive development for Norwegian media – and therefore for media pluralism – requires businesses with profitable and healthy economic conditions. Without continuous financial and organisational renewal, the entire industry will rot. In the right, it is positive that we also see in Norway the emergence of owner constellations and groups with financial and professional strength to assert themselves – at least in the Nordic market. The experience tells us that technical development and new editorial efforts require a strong back. Without the media tons, Norway would easily go to the rear. It could be a fateful exercise for those who will care for Norwegian culture and the condition of freedom of expression. The problem of ownership, as we see it, seems to be that static regulation seeks to steer a market that is in strong change and development. In the view of the Right, we need more comprehensive media legislation, which provides opportunities for growth and flexibility, which looks after healthy competitive conditions, and which ensures freedom of expression and our democratic needs. Based on what we have today, we find this whole by looking at the ownership law, competition law and the law of editorial independence in the context. The Government Parties, the Advance Party and, in part, the Centre Party therefore want a review of this whole field, where the three bases are seen in the context. The batches provide clear guidance for the removal of local and regional ownership restrictions. The Government Parties and the Advance Party also indicate that the national restriction should be lifted. A lot of talk is that you can go up to 49 pst here, which is suggested in the message. For these parties, it is an important point to see the context of the Competition Act, which, under changing ownership restrictions, will play a more important role than today. Pure organisational support is also given to the Right’s proposal in the communication to merge the Ownership Authority and the Competition Authority. Media policy is not just a policy of freedom of expression and democracy. The media are our main channels of culture and knowledge, and good media policy is therefore also good cultural policy. The media area represents one of the strongest economic growth areas in the world, so the context of industrial policy is also evident. In future media policies, it becomes necessary to take more account of these contexts, and it is the Right’s objective to contribute to this being a constructive meeting between the stock exchange and the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e502	Press support is, as you know, a government instrument to promote diversity and quality in Norwegian newspapers. The aid goes to smaller local managers with poor finances, life views and competitive no. 2 newspapers - the last one in the big cities. Press support was set up to prevent monopolies, and in cities it is very important, as big cities have a real newspaper market and a significant diversity. The Labour Party sees the Right in terms of the attitude to press support, that they really want to remove it completely, even though they are moving slowly and so far not doing more than what has been done in the budget for this year, as the representative Thommessen said in his statement. However, I would like to ask the representative Thommess whether the Right has changed the policy by working for monopoly activities. Does the right issue concern what appeared in the hearings regarding the value of maintaining the press support and want to increase it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e511	The right starting point for the press stand is clear. Right-wing wish to step down the press support with a view to its liquidation. It is also the case that we have concluded an agreement with the other government parties, where this theme is iced up. Of course, we are loyal to the Sem Declaration and we are insisting that the press support be maintained during the period of this government – and it will be a good time! Our problem with the press support is related to several things. First of all, we see that the objective that was important initially, that we should maintain a large number of numbers. 2 newspapers, i.e. more than one newspaper in each place of publication, we do not have the power to implement it in any case. Here there are heavier laws and heavier processes that apply, and then there's something about aligning with the landscape that exists. The second point is that we see that other media are also growing and progressing. Clearly, the effect of the press support is quite distorting, for example. in relation to radio and TV. This is an increasing problem, and we see an increasing focus in the field of these industries. I think it's important that we find more neutral instruments. The right does not say that we should not use instruments to maintain freedom of expression, but we do not believe that using direct subsidies to individual companies is a suitable form. For example, using the charging rules, as we do with the VAT exemption, is a more appropriate way to support this area. This doesn't mean, once we have press support, that we're going to sign out in relation to what the priority is, and we've said something about it when it comes to the smallest locals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e520	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good and thorough work in chairing the committee on this comprehensive matter. With regard to the transition to digital ground, this is detailed in the Committee's comments, and in particular the comments from the Progress Party. I would like to say quite briefly that the Progress Party believes that digital grounding is a obsolete solution before it is finished, and that instead we should bet on satellite reception, cable TV and better deployment of broadband networks. Such networks will in the future be able to take large amounts of signals. I record that the case-rapporteur is in favour of this obsolete solution, but my question to the case-rapporteur in this area is: To what extent have the costs been taken into account, and how does he assess this? The Progress Party also considers that a revision of the Media Ownership Act must be assessed against vertical integration, i.e. that a company has holdings in several stages of the distribution process. This issue is inter alia: up-to-date with the NRK/TV 2 cooperation on the development of digital ground networks. In the last week, after what I have read, competition surveillance in the media has expressed considerable concern at this point. How does the rapporteur assess the concerns of the Competition Authority in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e529	To take Knudsen's last question first, it is an important point that also vertical integration becomes part of media ownership legislation, when we go through it. That's a very important point! Of course, it has to apply to the entire width of media companies, whether it's NRK, newspapers, the Internet or whatever it might be. A little bit of our point is just that. With regard to the digital groundnet, I think that the Progress Party treats it as if it were the big choice: if you go into a further expansion of this network, you've set up a loop within all the technologies. My experience with the hearings we've had is that it's impossible to say how technological development will move forward. Here parallel technologies will have to live next to each other. We're going to have a continued expansion of broadband, we're going to operate on different types of digital ground network, and we're going to have satellite transmissions. What we also know is that these technologies will partly melt and also interfere with each other gradually. I think that through the expansion of the digital ground net, as we see it now, we are taking a big step forward in the sense that we are now getting a concrete initiative. Someone is behind them and says that they are willing to do this job and are willing to pay the cost of doing this. The problem that we've been facing is that no one has been at the head of it in other types of technologies. No one has said that they are willing to pay what a broadband expansion is actually going to cost, or take a leadership in that regard. I think that the process we're now going into will help to put into practice the whole little bit of an unbridled situation we're in, and so that it will lead us forward in a very constructive and good way. I trust that the Department will keep an eye on competition in this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e538	It might have been interesting to keep going on the digital ground, but I'm not going to spend the time on that right now, I'm going to get back to that. The representative of the Thommess spoke about freedom of expression and diversity of opinion, and apparently we agree here. The Thommessen has an ideal that means that we can be without press support. Then I would like to refer to the hearings that we have had, which Thommessen has conducted in an excellent way. If there is any evidence from the hearings, the press support has proved to be very accurate and absolutely necessary both for No. The 2 newspapers, the local newspapers and the relevant newspapers. As I see it, Thommes wants a newspaper offer based on advertising. It could in itself be okay if the advertising was reasonable, or if the advertising went where it was quality or diversity, but it's not like that. The advertisement follows the logic of the market or capital and goes where it is profitable to advertise. We see that number. The 2 newspapers and the meaningful newspapers have trouble, not because they make bad newspapers or have few readers, but precisely because they get little ad crowns – there are many who thin that market. Then I believe that the Thommes must get in trouble about their ideal. Does he want freedom of speech and dissatisfaction, or does he want no support for the press?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e547	Now I have said that the press support is probably not going to be the big issue in the next few years. But to get into what came out at the hearings, there was nothing new there at my discretion. Of course, if we cut out the press support, it will mean that some newspapers will go in or at least will have to rearrange their business significantly. We understand that. We think this is going to happen anyway, it's just questions of pace and momentum. My problem with respect to freedom of expression is, as I also said in my post, ideological in nature. It is a problem if those who are going to be the fourth state power, and be critics of, among other things. Those of us sitting in this room, they also have to be made dependent on the money that we give them. In almost any other context out in society, we'll point this out with a moral index finger and say that there's a context that doesn't work. So far, there has not been a big problem, but if you build an industry that is economically dependent on the public, it's clear that it's going to be a hindrance to having a living debate and having a real editorial freedom and independence. I would also like to underline the distorting problem we have. So today we see that a small locality in a community will get a few hundred thousand dollars at least, maybe more, in press support from the public. It can be used to obtain ads to run their business. The local TV station or local radio gets nothing. It is clear from these companies that they experience this as difficult and distorting for their activities. Nor is it for the promotion of freedom of expression that we do not, in this way, get freedom in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e556	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e560	The Media Policy Notice has a good title: ‘In the service of freedom of expression’. What it should serve as a means of achieving is freedom of expression, democracy, diversity of opinion and free debate. Many elements are important for achieving these objectives – the ability to deliver, the ability to obtain information, the ability to provide different sources of information, edited and systematised information and diversity and quality. In addition, our media policy should contribute to cultural policy, to identity building, and to what together constitutes the society of Norway. This is the objective that a market alone does not provide. Freedom of expression is not only the absence of restrictions; there are also active measures and support mechanisms to provide for the diversity of opinion and for the flow of information upon which a living democracy depends. That is why we have an active policy to ensure it: economic instruments and regulatory instruments. The main economic instruments are the exemption from VAT and the press support. It is important to stress that there is no shortage of readers that is the problem for those newspapers that are struggling financially, it is the advertising market that fails. The market does not function in relation to what readers experience as a valuable source of information and debate. Here there are heavier forces that work, says the case rapporteur, and then refers to the laws of the market. Of course, it's not like we're in the fold of the market. Of course, it is so that we can put up a policy to counteract it, and achieve goals other than those that the market is heading towards. It is often the case that there are marginal differences between life and death in the newspaper world. Right-wing politics can be the marginal difference that makes the answer die instead of life. Other media are said to take over the job of diversity in newspapers. At the same time, local and regional ownership constraints are opposed. This often leaves us with the same actors in the different media channels. Fortunately, a majority of the committee says that production aid should be maintained, even if the Workers' Party does not receive support for the proposal in the communication that we should bring the production aid up to the previous level. This may mean that locals, meaningful nationwide or no. 2 newspapers may be exposed. I must say that I do not understand the distinction that, among other things, The right makes between the meaningful national newspapers and Nos. The two papers. Part of number The 2 newspapers are of the size or even larger size than the meaningful national newspapers. Is it that opinions and opinions published in Bergen, in Skien or in Hamar are worth less than those published in Oslo? The case rapporteur and the government parties say nothing about the proposal in the notification of start-up aid, nor about exemptions from the dividend limit for those receiving press support. The Working Party supports the notification in this field. I assume that's what's underlying also for those who don't mention it at all. I have to say that I think there is a strange distinction that is made between VAT exemption and production aid. Both are public funding schemes to support democracy, support freedom of expression. We have seen that the VAT exemption has been given a much larger place in recent years. We believe that the two things need to be balanced. So some words about diversity in ownership. The Labour Party wants to maintain a national ceiling on ownership of one-third, and it is not correct as the rapporteur says, that the message says it should be up to 49 pst. On the contrary, it is said from a majority of the Committee that an additional ownership concentration in Norway can have the effect of increasing the interest of Norwegian media companies as buying-in objects for foreign investors and that it would be negative. When we know that the international media player has a turnover about the size of a Norwegian national product, we understand that there are major players who are in turn here. I hope that the conclusion for the autumn will be that we will maintain the national limitation of ownership, and that we could also have maintained the regional and local authorities, subject to the Ownership Authority concentrating on the essential issues. I am pleased that an almost collective committee supports the proposals of the Workers' Party in the area of children and young people, on how we can limit harmful media impressions for children and young people, and on further research in this area, so that we can also have an active media policy in which children and young people can actively use the media for their opinions, but also gain access to media that does not cause harm. I'm addressing proposal No. 1 in the settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e588	Trond Giske has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e593	Through today’s NRK organisation schemes, the Right believes that we have found an appropriate and flexible form of management of the business. We also thought the Workers' Party meant that. We are therefore amazed at the clear signals of the Workers' Party about restraints in the form of controls. The Workers' Party has proposed in the suspension that a general broadcasting poster be developed, unlike the work undertaken by the Minister of Culture for the further deepening of the public broadcasting concept. The content of this is compared with the TV 2 concession terms. In addition, there is a specific requirement for rural programmes in all counties, the maintenance of the broadcasting orchestra and the concreteisation of NRK tasks in relation to education. So it's obvious that the Workers' Party is thinking of a poster with a pretty concrete content. All the examples mentioned in the notes are derived from specific issues that have arisen in winter. The only thing missing is a point about «Schrödinger's Cat». My question to the representative Giske is whether he doesn't think it's going to be difficult to design a public broadcasting poster with the concrete level described, so that it fits for later years. And does not the Workers' Party trust that any sitting council of cultural states will follow up the signals of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e602	First to the last question, whether I trust that the remarks written by the Stortinget in the settings of the Culture Committee will be followed up by the Minister for Culture. Here I have to say that the experience from the case of the Fund for Performing Artists makes me have at least some reservations. But of course, we're going to give the Council of State ever more opportunities to prove that it's possible to follow the positions of the Culture Committee. But then the question of a public broadcaster. I fully understand that the Right Party and the Workers' Party probably have different views on what the NRK should be, on the district coverage, possibly on the teaching part – that the NRK should be actively used as the facilitator of the education programme, etc. – or with regard to the broadcasting orchestra. That is not what the Labour Party proposal is all about. The proposal is that we gather all the comments and opinions that this room always has on the NRC into one common public broadcaster. Instead of every time there are discussions about the NRK, we're going to refer to a budgetary position here, a comment there, the treatment of the media message there, we're going to collect this in one place, and then we're going to deal with it at regular intervals. That's what the right now says no. And of course, if we took that up, we could discuss what the content of it is. And if the right then is against the broadcaster, or if there's something about the broadcaster, it's okay, but that's not what the right goes against, they're going against the Storting actually gathering all of these notes in one place. It is possible that the Right believes that the Storting should not have any idea of what the NRK is going to do. In that case, we disagree very much. The whole purpose of our state ownership of the NRK, the whole purpose of requiring Norwegian citizens to pay more than NOK 3 billion in licenses, is that we want to use the NRK to actively support democracy, cultural construction and information on both narrow and broad areas. Just as private owners have an opinion and a view of what the company they own is going to do, so the Stortinget on behalf of the Norwegian people, who own the NRK, must take that task seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e611	My question is on the theme of support for minority publications. The Progress Party is alone in saying that this does not contribute to the integration of society. It doesn't contribute in a positive direction. The Labour Party has excavated much of the integration policy we have in Norwegian society today, and we have recently had a number of examples of the total failure of this integration policy — it does not work. Special measures and special treatment do not work; there are deeper gaps between immigrants, minorities and the Nordics. So these are not measures that contribute to integration. My question is therefore: why should such a policy continue, with large subsidies for such publications, when this has proved not to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e620	The policy of making a multicultural society work must have two objectives. One objective is that the different groups and the different minorities in a society can have channels and opportunities to develop their peculiarity, to build their identity and feel security on it, while at the same time seeking to achieve the objective of the different minorities and expressions working together in a common society with some common values and common principles. It's this diversity of our media policy also trying to contribute to, that we have some common meeting places, but that we should also have opportunities to express our peculiarity in different publications. Therefore, I am of the opinion that there is no contradiction here, but that support for minority publications on the contrary is a prerequisite for a good integration policy – a good common society. The other area that I am far more concerned about is going to contribute to an increased fragmentation of our society, for example. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credential Affairs and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the I am far more concerned about breaking up our society than that different religious or ethnic minorities should be able to publish their own newspaper or magazine, where they can build up their own identity, exchange views and also give the outside world a picture of what they stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e629	What made me ask for a reply was something the representative Giske said that he was pleased with the support we gave to the Workers' Party and SV's proposal to support, among other things. on media protection in the case of children and young people. I think it's very positive what it says about the follow-up to the Nyborg Committee, which has said a lot about these things. What is also related to this is that in order to know more about how these mechanisms are, research is needed. We've allocated a lot of money to the state budget for media research. A smaller part of the research funding has been channelled through the Council for Applied Media Research, precisely in order to provide some resources for smaller projects that may not require the same follow-up as the major projects do, and where these funds have proved to be very useful and have benefited very many bodies, not least in the media bodies. I have now found that the Workers' Party has not helped to support the maintenance of the Council for applied media research. They have previously proposed that it be closed. I would like to ask the representative Giske: why can't the Workers' Party support the maintenance of such an important advice that means so much when it comes to researching the media habits of children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e638	I fully agree with the representative Lånke that this area requires increased research efforts. We have too little knowledge of the impact of the new media world on children and young people, perhaps also for the sake of adults. A psychiatrist told me last week that Internet addiction was perhaps a bigger problem than gambling – which has been a topical issue in this room over the last few weeks and months. We also know that access to all sorts of media impressions is almost unlimited. It is not the Council for applied media research that is crucial to whether it is going to be research or not, but it is the total research effort that we are giving money to both through this room's budget appropriations and through the Research Fund, which, as you know, will have a significant boost in the near future. Research policy is now undergoing a comprehensive evaluation. We have received a report on the functioning of the Research Council. It is discussed whether the Research Council should be split up or whether we should have an overall Research Council organisation. In that review, I believe that we should be free and not pre-determine that a particular area should have its own advice. That's why the Workers' Party has not been in favour of what is, among other things, the Christian People's Party. agrees to establish, in the context of this Communication, that the Council for applied media research is to be maintained as a separate body.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e647	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e650	One of the key concepts of the Media Policy of the Progress Party is ‘freedom of expression’. We believe that freedom of expression must be at the heart of media policy in a democracy. A pillar of democracy must be the belief that man will freely argue to a better society. Of course, it can be that there are opinions that we don't think are particularly constructive, it can be things that we don't like, and there might be opinions that we think are horrific. But it's a democratic right to bring them. Similarly, freedom of the press. Someone abuses it to press something they should have left out of the press. Some people abuse it to broadcast TV programmes that are difficult to see can make a positive contribution to social development. It could be tempting to mention the names of programs, but I won't. But we don't want a country with censorship for that reason. If you ignore the fundamentalist socialists, no one wants a country with only one TV channel, or a country with only one newspaper. Freedom of expression and printing is fundamental as long as you do not violate the freedom of other individuals or trample on people who cannot behave. In order to protect against this, we have, among other things: and injury legislation. A main area where the media policy of the Progress Party differs from other parties is in the view of the NRK and the NRK licence. If we mean something with freedom of expression, we do not believe that the State can own a TV channel, and especially not the largest one, and especially not with a mandatory titer charge. I once heard an editor give a good example of how absurd this really is: We can imagine that the state owned a newspaper. It seems quite wild to some people, but it is nothing better than if the state owns a TV channel. And even more wild is the idea that the state should have the right to say: – OK you can read other newspapers if you absolutely want to, but before you subscribe to the Evening Post, VG or the Local View, you have to pay the subscription to the state newspaper. – Yes, we hear you say that you are not interested in reading the state newspaper, but no one is allowed to read other newspapers without first buying the state newspaper. This example underlines the view of the Progress Party on freedom of expression and state involvement in the media. With the development we see in the media market, with a significant degree of so-called convergence, where the media merge – the Internet, newspapers, TV and radio are run by the same companies and may eventually end up in a total system, perhaps delivered through our mobile phone – we see it as pointless that we still have to have a government broadcaster. We also find it fundamentally unacceptable that we should have a state broadcaster that has the task of conveying news, culture, sport and entertainment that is marked as 'approved and healthy' by a political majority. We think the Norwegian people themselves should choose which media products they want to use, and that we should not coerce one of them. So to some key single points in the media message, which we have today for treatment. The Progress Party has a liberal view of advertising in the media. Products and angles that do not violate criminal law, we want to be allowed to advertise. Per. Today there is already advertising of alcohol on Norwegian TV screens, we have advertising targeting children, and we have women discriminating advertising. It comes into our living rooms through the satellite and the cable. Then we have a clear choice: we can look at, we can change the channel, or we can switch it off. That's our privilege. But what about advertising that targets children? I agree that this is something we don't like. But I think it's the parents' responsibility to make sure that children don't see things they shouldn't. Parents must take responsibility for their own children! It is not very difficult to stop or block channels with content that the small house should not see – if necessary you can also cancel the subscription. There has been a lot of focus in the media on the Progress Party's view of ownership. It seems clear that the Media Ownership Act should be amended somewhat. Now, when the Department is going to investigate these questions more closely, we think there are several things that should be taken into account. We think it is positive to allow the market to be free at local and regional level as far as possible. At a national level, we think there's a lot of evidence that we should go for 49 pst. But we haven't concluded this. The Progress Party also considers that a legislative revision must be assessed against vertical integration, i.e. that companies have holdings in several stages of the production and distribution process. The Progress Party also considers that electronic media should be subject to the Media Ownership Act. Many broadcasting and press tasks are already being disseminated through the Internet. These are clearly service areas that coincide with analogue broadcasting and traditional press activities. We are in the midst of a raging technological development. There is a need for legislative adaptations throughout the media sector. We think we need to get a more general law that treats all media equally. We would also like to stress that we welcome the idea of bringing together Staten's media administration and the Post and Telecommunications Authority into one office, preferably as soon as possible. We think it would be far more rational and effective to be in front of the bureaucratic transformation in relation to development. We also note with satisfaction that we will work towards bringing together the Ownership Authority and the Competition Authority. In my line-up with the case rapporteur, I was involved in the Progress Party's view on digital ground, so I'm not going to repeat the things I said in that line-up. In terms of media coverage of criminal cases, recent developments seem to have been worrying. You print the names and pictures of witnesses and of defendants. We're afraid people are prejudiced in the media. You are judged by society around you, by potential jury members or by co-judges. Of course, this isn't easy. We are concerned with the freedom of the press, but it must be balanced against the individual's demands for protection. We believe that the anonymity of the accused and witnesses in the media should be ensured until they are available. Derogations must, of course, apply to persons searched for by the police who are considered dangerous to their environment. Otherwise, we are not particularly satisfied with the self-justice of the press. The Professional Committee of the Press does not appear to have the distance needed to perform a neutral supervisory function. We therefore want to assess whether a neutral and independent system of supervision for the ethics and conduct of the press and media can be established in relation to the privacy and legal certainty of individuals. Alternatively, in this area, we can extend the mandate of the Data Protection Authority. I would like to take up the proposals of the Progress Party and at the same time signal that we hope that voting can be put up so that we have the opportunity to support the proposals No. 19 and 20, from SV, which is in line with our vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e702	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e707	In the policy of the Progress Party on the market and competition, there is often some schizophrenicism to be traced. On the one hand, there are some basic liberalist principles that speak for a broad range of ownership, a broad range of companies in order to bring about the competition you dream of, which requires a very strict regulation and regulatory control because some markets have natural monopolistic tendencies. On the other hand, there is also a tendency to stand on the side of monetary power and to support those who, as is often the case, have the largest wallet. So here, too, in the media field. On the one hand, the Progress Party agrees with comments that argue quite well why we should not build up under a further ownership concentration in the media market – in line with the more liberal competitive values of the Progress Party. On the other hand, it is widely suggested that an increase in the national ownership rate to 49 pst should be considered. This means opening up one owner to control half of the media market in Norway, which must be said to conflict with the principles of competition and diversity. My question to the representative Knudsen is therefore: Which of the two reasons is the Progress Party going to win on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e718	I feel very bad again in the description that the Progress Party is very busy with these bold wallets. There are other parties in this Chamber running on dinners with representatives of the big capital, not the Progress Party. As far as our view of ownership is concerned, it's based on our program, which says that we want constraints. But with regard to the limit of ownership of the law at national level, we believe that there should be a roof. We have not taken a concrete position on where it should be. We want to build up national ownership structures that have resources and capacity to assert themselves in relation to foreign interests. Something might suggest that we are going to end up at 49 p.m., but at the same time we are concerned that such an increase in the national ceiling could lead to a significant decrease in ownership. Perhaps additional ownership concentrations can also have the effect of making Norwegian media companies more interesting as buying-in objects for foreign investors. This is in no way an easy matter, and as it will appear both from my main post and from our comments, we have not concluded. We will conclude when the Government comes back with proposals for law auditing in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e727	The representative Knudsen spent a lot of time at the NRK. I understand that, because the Progress Party has taken a clear position on this, namely that it wants to sell the NRK in the long term. The assessments that were made were essentially carried out on the basis of what I would call market assessments. So there's a lot where you could probably join. It is that when part of us wants to bet on the NRK and use the NRK, it is because we see the NRK as an important cultural policy tool in a situation where Norway becomes a small cultural nation in an international image. We have important concerns in relation to the production of children, compared to Norwegian music, in relation to debates based in Norway – the whole range of indicators in a cultural context that make the Norwegian public feel at home. I miss a cultural policy deepening of what the Progress Party thinks in this context. Is it so that the Progress Party thinks that this has been done within purely market mechanisms, or is it so that the Progress Party might think of other ways of doing this? Or maybe the Progress Party doesn't think it's necessary to take care of this at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e738	Of course, the representative Thommessen is right that we want to get the politicians' clumsy hands away from the NRK and get the license out. The market, said the representative Thommess, was the main reason for that. The main reason is not necessarily the market, but the right of consumers to free choice, the freedom to choose the product you want, and to pay for the product you choose, and not to pay for the NRK, as you do now. I think we always want a market in Norway for Norwegian-produced substances. We want Norwegian music and Norwegian TV programmes, and I therefore believe with great certainty that this will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e745	I have read with great interest the comments of the Advancement Party, and I quote: ‘In the case of press support, the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party have strong principal objections to this form of selective support. These members believe that the press should be independent of the authorities and advocate the liquidation of the press support mechanism over a two-year period.» It seems that the Progress Party has a notion of a free-floating press, and I believe that this must only be done in the head of the Advance Party. In fact, the iron-hard law of the market will ensure that we get a huge closure of newspapers that means a lot to diversity – and I think the Progress Party knows that. The progress party suggests that newspapers such as the Bergens newspaper, the nations and the class struggle will have to give up. I know what, for example. a newspaper that the Bergensavisen means for the possibility of delivering different types of messages. I wonder if you've really thought about how the representatives Sortevik and Ståhl Woldseth could have come forward today without the alternative Bergensavisen. Not only does the Progress Party add up to a centralization to a few newspapers, but it also adds to Akersgata. Freedom of expression also has a value in Bergen. To take a parallel, the market forces make sure we have one airline between Oslo and Bergen. So the Progress Party says that no. The 2 newspapers and the relevant newspapers shall be able to rationalise. Both ECON and Statskonsult have now produced reports saying that these newspapers have taken out the rationalization gains a long time ago. Does the Progress Party have any other information? Ulf Erik Knudsen also says that no one wants just one newspaper or just one TV channel, but is it smart to put up the media power so that it is monopolised in such a way that the policies of the Progress Party will involve?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e761	The politicians of the Progress Party have in many cases claimed that parts of the media boikots Progress Party, and this is a very good description that this is the case. It must be such that the representatives of the Party of Advancement from Hordaland are boycotted by the Official Journal of Bergen. When we set up our media policy, we do not do so according to whether representatives Sortevik and Ståhl Woldseth are getting interviews in those newspapers. It's possible that SV pursues its media policy that way, but we're trying to have a more principleal approach to this. What I think will happen if we cut in the press stand, is that a lot of newspapers will start trying to think new. They'll look at new income opportunities, they'll look at changing their product, and they'll have a quality boost. Subsidy included in the press aid per year Today, it only helps to clear up the system and the market we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e772	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e775	For a small country such as Norway, it is particularly important culturally to maintain the diversity of opinion and further develop the general broadcasting profile, not only in the NRC, but also in the commercial television and radio channels. At the same time, local broadcasting and local press must be ensured to ensure the proximity and identity of the local population, as these are important supplements to national media. Media quality and diversity are increasingly threatened by owner concentration and commercialisation. An important part of the rationale for the release of commercial radio and television channels was just the diversity of opinions and content. More than I do have an ever stronger sense that there have become a single fold in many channels. I would like to refer to the introduction to the media communication, which starts with a basic starting point: freedom of expression is a crucial prerequisite for democratic governance. Democracy requires a population that can freely participate in an exchange of views on policies and other societal issues. This presupposes free access to a variety of information and views from different political parties, interest groups and the like. In this context, the media constitute an institutionalised system for the dissemination of information. In my view, we are dealing here with some of the core elements of our democratic system, namely freedom of expression and free access to information and public information. So over to what we've been into before today, about digital ground and broadband. I believe, as I said earlier, that one of the most central things is to ensure that information and communication networks are accessible to all, and that all institutions, businesses and individuals are given a level playing field. In particular, given the country-wide unit price, the same capacity and the same rate of expansion. In my opinion, the new technology, put into practice in a proper way, can help balance differences between the centre of Norway and the periphery and provide a fantastic future-oriented uplift in the districts in terms of distance learning, new media and user habits for schools, industry, health, libraries and other. I believe that based on the information that has now been provided in the media message, it is too poor a basis to commit to any technical solution or technology broadcasting platform. There are too many uncertainties that have not yet been adequately elucidated through the media message. I think it might be possible that the most appropriate thing is to use already existing infrastructure. It is very important to establish common open standards for all digital media, i.e. one set of rules for the exchange of data. I am very sceptical about the new role NRK and TV 2 are working against as distributors of the digital ground network through the newly launched company NTV AS. In principle, this is a role which is not desirable for public broadcasters, who have the clear task of being a content producer and not a distributor. As I see it, it is not desirable for the NRK and TV 2 to have exclusive rights and monopolise a technological platform. In these days, answers to questions from the Ministry on concessional conditions and digital ground nets are sent back to the ministry by various major actors. I believe that this is essential information the Committee must be provided before it is possible to make a decision in relation to any technological solution. In the light of this situation, the Socialist Left Party has made the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone the decision on the development of the digital ground network until the hearing opinions on the concession rules on the development of the digital ground network have been processed and submitted as a separate case to the Stortinget.’ At the same time, I experience major disagreements among market players in the view of which technological platform is the best one to safeguard digital general law while meeting the expectations of the future's demands for good two-way communication. In the light of this, we have also made the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the Government to provide a notification of its choice and justification for the chosen technological platform, which is either digital ground or broadband. The same notification must provide an overview of the costs and timing of the implementation of the solution chosen for the whole country.’» I see that there is a very fragmented view of how the actual development of a digital ground or broadband is going to happen, or, for that matter, a combined network of new and old infrastructure that already exists. We have not taken a final decision on the final choice of the technological platform, but I believe that the most important management and regulatory tool the authorities will have is just to put strong leadership through the concession terms, to put perfectly clear leadership on what the Storting wants to achieve, and to make clear, verifiable demands to the providers of a technological platform. These are certain areas I would like to mention which should be discussed in relation to the content of the concession terms: NRK and TV2 and local television channels must be provided with space in any broadband.A common open standard must be established.There must be no vertical integration.There must be enough capacity to meet important needs other than pure entertainment.The concession period must be confirmed.The roll-out of digital motorways and media through municipalities and county plans must be brought together.We must legislate for a binding customer service to the subscriber of digital services.We must start the development in the districts before the major cities.We must say no to aggressive advertising directed at children and young people. We also need to be able to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of having one big actor to expand. The advantage is that a major player has technology skills at different levels and can offer different solutions where required. The disadvantages are that a dominant player is given too much market power and can abuse it for the benefit of its own companies and interests. Of course, this has to be regulated by concession terms. Several reports have been received from the Ministry of Transport on broadband for municipalities. The last report came on 19 March 2002, ‘Broadband in the municipalities’. I find it strange whether Stortinget does not co-operate with the Ministry of Transport's recommendations and gives a comprehensive view across the departments regarding the choice of the digital broadcasting platform. The postal and telecommunications regulators, the Competition Authority, the Ownership Authority and the State Media Administration will all have very important roles in the future, and it is particularly important that they are allocated enough resources to master all the challenges that will come daily and will require prompt answers and decisions. I experience that many of us are developing a digital lifestyle, where digital technology is used in the pursuit of a number of everyday activities, such as: information search, payment and procurement. New digital services such as distance learning, telemedicine, web newspapers, online banking, open online and public information are becoming part of our everyday lives. I would like to point out again that it is very important not to draw hasty conclusions until all available information has come to the Storting. It is important to be patient now just before the finish line, so that the Storting does not have excessive extra costs and digitisation that only extends to those who can pay for the services. This must be a right for all, regardless of social status, gender, age and geographical relationship. In the middle of all digitisation, it is also important to think about privacy and not allow commercial market players to register all the activity we individuals do online. It could threaten the integrity of individuals and hinder freedom of expression and the search for information. So to ownership. I have seen no reason to change the co-ownership law. This Act, together with the powers of the Ownership Authority, shall limit the size of an operator to the purchase of about one third of the national daily press and/or television market. It is possible to derogate from this rule if there is a risk of closure. I believe that raising the ownership limit to 49 pst. could have very unfortunate consequences in terms of over-concentration of ownership, which could pose a risk to the diversity of day-to-day printing and broadcasting and thereby to the real possibilities of expression. At national level, there is a limit on how much an actor can control over one third of the media. At local or regional level, an operator shall not be able to control most or all media within a particular geographical area. I want to maintain the main purpose of the law, namely to promote freedom of expression in the broad sense. Another unintended effect may be that Norwegian media companies can become more interesting as buying-in objects for foreign investors. For us in the Socialist Left Party, it is not desirable to be part of the increasing globalisation and concentration of the media power. Finally, I would like to state that something of the most fundamental principle in our democratic system is freedom of expression and free access to information and public information. These pillars of our society give us unique opportunities to exist as free and meaningful people. The most important thing on the media policy agenda now is to ensure equal access for all to the digital future. I would like to address the proposals we have in the vote, and the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e862	Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e867	The representative Lund Bergo, on behalf of SV, very often returns to the term ‘commercialisation’. It's a troll that is lifted up in different contexts. This time it was in the cold water of press support, and it was pulled into relation to the commercial local radios. I would like to get an SV to elaborate a little bit on how many heads there are on this troll. What do you think the local radio and television stations and the small newspapers really have to live by? Is any form of State aid being evenly thought over to all possible media activities? Today, the local radio has such a thin funding base that it barely manages. Unfortunately, the radio medium is slightly down in editorial quality, and that is because it is difficult for them to obtain funds for the business. It must be important that we manage to create a healthy economy, also in media other than those receiving public press support. It must be important that we manage to get so much weight in this that we get a multiple in the media, also in the way that we have qualitatively good challengers for local radio and TV. As I said, what is SV looking for? Is it wrong to sell ads? Is it wrong to make a product that someone wants to buy? What is SV thinking about in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e877	On the question of what we mean by ‘commercialisation’, I would like to say that I believe we have explained it in a fairly large number of contexts. When it comes to the near-radios that are struggling to survive, we can only regret that this is the case. We think close - range radios are a good thing if they're good close - range radios. And if we're going to follow Thommessen's logic, I'm going to think that good proximity radios will attract advertising crowns and have the chance to survive. Let me turn it around and say it differently: if it's necessary to use the transmission time on bingo or to play records, as many of them do, I don't think it's a big loss if they disappear. So maybe it has something to do with the quality of those channels. Otherwise I think that local radios should operate commercially, yes, then they have to find a commercial way to operate. We in S.B. accept that there are commercial media, and that some are going to survive at that. But that in itself is not enough. That's why we want to maintain the press support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e886	The representative, Lund Bergo, has today presented a bench proposal in which he wants to grant extended powers to the Danish Broadcasting Council. The General Broadcasting Council is a kind of watchbitch for public broadcasting in Norway – NRK, TV 2, P4 – and publishes an annual report on the state of the kingdom in that area. It is very useful reading not least for the Department and the Media Administration to enforce these powers, but also useful for the various media. Today, the State Media Administration has the task of following up the reports of the General Broadcasting Council and pointing out what is irregular in relation to the concession agreements. When SV now proposes to take this out by means of a bench proposal, there must be something that has happened quickly, as far as I can tell, so that the state media administration is no longer a suitable body to have the role it has had today. My question to the representative Lund Bergo will then be: What is it about the management of the media and, where appropriate, the ministry, dealing with these matters that you are not satisfied with since you want to take it out and put it into a whole new body? And I assume you'll then create a new bureaucracy around this to strengthen it? What sanctions are there to introduce here? I have to add that, personally, I see this proposal as very objectionable, precisely because it is the Media Administration and the Department that run over the other instrument, which has the concessions, and which will be the ones that naturally have the best overview of this and can take the necessary steps in relation to the public broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e897	When we promote the proposal we are making, it is in view of the fact that the General Broadcasting Council will be the important body in the future. We believe it could play an even more active role in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e902	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e905	First of all, I would like to commend the rapporteur, Mr Thommess, for his thorough and good work on the communication. In any discussion of media issues, it may be wise to recall what a ‘medium’ is, that is, a means of reaching out with a message. The aim is communication, language communication, speech, knowledge and experience. Today, we see that these funds, or media, are increasingly being used to achieve other objectives, namely to ensure the return on capital. The goal is to maximise and make even more money. That's how the medium becomes a goal in itself. It'll be a goal to get a concession, a channel, a frequency or an advertising body. The content is more or less subordinate to this. It is not wrong to make money on the media – on the contrary, it is necessary to ensure establishment. However, it is also important to ensure that there are both rules of the game that prevent unfortunate links between capital and editorial content and that these rules are observed. The aim of a public policy in relation to the media is to provide the public with the best possible access to comprehensive information, knowledge and insight. Therefore, there is a social responsibility in this conglomerate of cross-cutting interests to ensure that there are also different channels of communication, so as to ensure, as far as possible, the flow of alternative information, expression and a wide range of opinions — what we call diversity. The diversity is essential to ensure what we call freedom of speech. It becomes more important than ever to find measures against monopolistic formations, whether in terms of content production or distribution. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the submitted message contributes to an active process in order to move forward in relation to these important issues. A lot of work lies ahead of us in following up the many challenges of the message. The Christian People's Party will maintain the need to use selective instruments to achieve some key media policy objectives. One of them is to ensure the newspaper diversity that needs to be considered as an almost unique cultural value in Norwegian society. We are pleased that, through the Sem Declaration, we have achieved support for maintaining production aid in the coming years. It gives room to at least ensure, and preferably increase, support for the locals, which means a lot, among other things. for strengthening local democracy. It also means maintaining support for the national policy opinion papers, which contribute greatly to diversity and value sharing. The situation of the so-called No. The 2 newspapers have become very uncertain. As far as possible, it should continue to be an objective to contribute to newspaper advertising in those places where there are still two newspapers. But in some cases, we have seen that the market constraint suggests that there is only room for one newspaper. Then maybe it's better with one strong good newspaper than with two weak and bad ones. In such cases, it may be more appropriate to ensure that there are other ways of ensuring competition. With this in mind, it may be wise for the press stand itself to be examined, particularly in relation to paragraph. The two papers. The Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening all types of local media. As local cultural intermediaries and identity creators, both local radio and local TV are very valuable. It is gratifying to see that the economic situation of the local TV station is stable and improving. On our side, we are committed to ensuring the framework conditions for both of these media, both by giving them a place in the new digital media image, and by improving access to financial resources. The Christian People's Party has programmed some kind of media support for the local media, without us having managed to get on with this until now. Several factors that can be improved in the context of the local radio economy, including adjustment of the radiobingo rules, have been identified. This is something the department now has to look at. Ownership in the media is a very topical theme. In particular, this applies at national level. Today we have a regulatory mechanism in the Ownership Act and the Ownership Authority as Supervisory Body. In short, we can say that it is both important to ensure opportunities for Norwegian companies that want to invest heavily in our own country, while at the same time preventing the Norwegian media landscape from being opened up for purchases from foreign media giants. It is not easy to see how a person with a single legal provision is responsible for both aspects. The Christian People's Party has therefore agreed that further consideration will be given to whether it is wise to increase ownership restrictions to 49 pst. In that case, such a solution would require strong supervision, and we believe that it might be right to link the Ownership Authority closer to the Competition Authority, so that we can get a strengthening of both. In this context, we also believe that it is now a right step to ensure that the principles of the editor's poster are legislated. Switching to digital technology also holds the door for the media. I just want to say here that the Christian People's Party supports the ministry's plans for the award of a concession on the ground-based digital TV. First of all, we believe this is important in order to ensure our public broadcasters opportunities in the Norwegian market, and at the same time it is the only thing that ensures that local TV can be broadcast digitally. This is discussed in more detail in our remarks. Finally, I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the Committee that is committed to strengthening media research, which at the same time values the work carried out under the auspices of the Council for applied media research and which wants that body to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e937	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e940	Like many others, I have read in the newspapers this week that Prime Minister Bondevik says that it is he and his government that govern this country. Here in the house we see a government that, in fields after fields, gives away the right and the ability to control. Today, the NRK applies. We require individuals and families in this country to pay close to $1,800 a year in license, and we are responsible for directing the use of the money for our common good. Then we – or at least the plural – hand over the control to the NRK-leding and the NRK-ledging. When they want to shut down district offices or leave to create new ones that we – including the Christian People's Party – have imposed on them before, when they want to shut down the Broadcasting Orchestra and the international broadcasts, a majority says: We can't help it! I think it's more about will. In this context, I would have liked to ask my former colleague on the Committee on Culture, who has changed his mind in many ways. But I just want to ask him how he wants to explain, for example. Norwegian munitions out of the world to lose their dearest and perhaps even contact Norway so that the NRK will save the cost of 4-5 settings on a budget of DKK 3 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e947	First, I have to say that there was a pleasant review of the representative Ausdal Starrfelt in a media and cultural debate, of which we had a part in the previous period. That it is Bondevik who is in charge, I hope that the Workers' Party is also in agreement, even if it sometimes does not work that way. This theme applies to NRK. For approx. Six years ago, Norwegian National Broadcasting was separated as a separate limited liability company. They set up their own administrative board and got their own broadcasting director with a wide range of powers. The Christian People's Party was not at that time, but it was the Workers' Party, as far as I remember. However, we have been concerned about respecting that this is the situation, and for that reason we have wanted to exercise caution when it comes to entering and controlling the detail of the NRK. I have recently found that the Workers' Party and the government parties have some disagreement in this area, although I doubt that the Workers' Party in the government position would have been equally interested in intervening in the integrity of the NRK. I must say, with reference to several of the points raised by the representative Ausdal Starrfelt, that the Christian People's Party is not happy to note that district offices are being closed down and merged. In that respect, at least I've made sure that there's a very good result out of it, and it's the services that count. In the previous debate on this, we have pointed out for ourselves that Nordland should have its district mission. As for the misioners and others living abroad, I have met some of them. They're sorry for this, and I'm now using the opportunity to at least greet the management of the NRK, who's sitting here in the hall, and ask them to try and take care of those connections with our Nordics abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e958	Yeah, I'm sure it'll come along.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e961	There'll be more review here! And I have to say that in relation to the previous period, the Christian People's Party is not to recognize. Not only do they add to local newspaper monopolies by removing ownership restrictions at local and regional level, but they will also deal with national ownership restrictions. Let's take a possible scenario: Schibsted has gotten 49 pst. of the ownership interests of a TV 2 that goes well and provides the owners with a good return. Nevertheless – for some reason – Schibsted will sell out, and Berlusconi will throw his eyes on the TV 2 shares. Based on developments in Italy, does the Christian People's Party believe that this is a desirable development? And how will the Christian People's Party possibly prevent the dinosaurs out in Europe from throwing themselves over the Norwegian media market, which, after all, has a rather low-buying audience? The Christian People's Party then calls for a merger of the Ownership Authority and the Competition Authority. To that end, I would say that the Ownership Authority has had the task of ensuring that there is a wide variety of ownership, while the Competition Authority has the task of ensuring that there is competition. In other words, for the Competition Authority, two media houses will suffice. The Christian People's Party has previously agreed with SV that it is necessary to increase the pressure, because we both have seen that several newspapers have really been struggling. Now the Christian People's Party is talking about enough of the press support that is, and neither will they be involved in a new system of support for the creation of new newspapers. Can loan reasons why he has now taken this position?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e978	To take the last one first, the representative Valle's question as to why we are opposed to start-up aid. We have not mentioned it in the setting, but it is stated in the message that our government has submitted that it should be introduced. I'll leave it to the Council of State and the Department to figure out what to do about it. I see many positive aspects of having such start-up support, and it must be assessed against the relationship with the other production support and the need for it. But that's what we're going to leave to the department. As for what was the main point of the Ågot Valle's line, it was about ownership issues, which the Christian People's Party wants to be further investigated. I would like to acknowledge that this is a very difficult area, and it is difficult to know what the consequences of different regulations will be. With regard to the local and regional ownership restrictions, we do not see that in the Norwegian relatively limited market it is particularly practical to have these restrictions, because there are few bodies. There's a few owners that we're talking about. Rather, we need to listen to researchers and others who say that competition in Norway is perhaps best served by looking at the relationship between the different levels rather than trying to maintain more organs in one place. When it comes to national, I think it's more difficult to say what the outcome might be. A lot of talk is that we should keep a limit of 1/3, but there are also things that talk about maybe we should increase it so that Norwegian companies can buy up further to strengthen Norwegian involvement in the Norwegian media market, rather than getting foreign buyers. The fear of Berlusconi was really a little new to me. I have not been aware that Berlusconi has tried to gain access to the Norwegian media market. I will now wait and see if it happens – so far I think he is doing well. I'd like to comment on it further, but I don't get time for it, so it's going to be for another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e991	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e994	I would also like to commend the case spokesperson for his clean and good work on a relatively comprehensive message. Hardly in any area changes happen as quickly as in media policy. What seemed to be today's good solutions will be quick to yesterday's solutions. The information gathering from the media and newspapers is great, and the Norwegian people, who are on the world top as newspaper-reading people, have plenty to choose from. In the light of developments, we are constantly getting new channels available in our living rooms. Media failure and freedom of expression are the mainstays of Norwegian media policy. The NRK as a nationwide, licence-funded and advertising-free channel, we have a special responsibility for, while the channel has a special responsibility towards the Norwegian people. A owner can and should be active in the management of his/her ownership. It is common for all owners, and the Storting should not be an exception in this way in relation to their relationship with the NRK. In the concession terms of TV 2, the size set clear requirements for the channel. It would also be natural for the Stortinget to make clear demands on the NRK. For example, Stortinget has increased the licence in order to realise the development of district shipments. The fact that Stortinget then believes that there should be district shipments in all states is a natural consequence of previous decisions. The NRK and TV 2's concrete initiatives to move forward in order to establish channels for digital transmission are interesting. The Storting said during the treatment of St.meld. No 46 for 1998-99 yes to the introduction of digital television. The digitisation of the ground-net as seen by NRK and TV 2 has several positive elements: It can meet the requirement of coverage, and thus it can quickly establish digital television for the whole population.It is also the broadcasting platform that can effectively be subject to national, media-political authority.It allows the best and most affordable solution for regional and local television throughout the country. As I said in the introduction, we're in Norway on the world summit as newsreading people. Our newspaper flora has an invaluable significance both as a source of information about public Norway and as the arena for recording, viewing and eloquence for the ordinary citizen in social debates. Not least, the smallest local viewers are important in this image. In addition, they help to strengthen the new Norwegian language, as much of the substance in these newspapers is found in new Norwegian. Message is in place for a step up of the press support. Sorry, this is not supported by the majority. The centre party believes that the goal must be to increase the press support in line with the setting of the Daily Press Selection so that it reaches the 1993 level. With today's buying pressure in the form of some aggressive advertising directed at children and young people, it is important to stress that about 70,000 children live below what we call the poverty line. The centre party is concerned about the growing commercialisation of everyday life for children and young people. Not least contribute media to enhance this. Advertising aimed at children is unacceptable in the view of the Centre Party. There is often an indication of the lack of interest in youth to participate in and engage in social debates. The 'News in the School' project is, in my view, a positive measure which can contribute to increasing interest in active participation in society, and the Central Party supports the Ministry's view that this should receive financial support. Finally, I would like to mention an area that the Committee has unfortunately not commented on in the configuration. It is the responsibility we have towards those about 600 000 hearing aids living and caged in Norway. It is important that this group also have access to our most important medium, namely TV. Currently, premanufactured applications are shown text, but not direct applications in NRK or other TV channels. It seems to me to be a sign of a democratic problem when a group as large as 600 000 is excluded from the social debate by not being able to follow direct news and news programmes on TV. In several countries, direct transmission technologies have been developed. This applies, for example: England, and it's Sweden. I therefore ask the Council of State as a General Assembly of the NRC to take the initiative to ensure that existing technology in other countries is also used in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1028	Knowledge and information are the very basis for actively participating in a living democracy. A great lack of newspapers and other media is therefore important both in terms of freedom of expression, democracy, language and culture. Many media play an overly important role in society that their existence can only depend on the demand for economic profitability alone. It will therefore be necessary to use public funds to ensure that the media can perform their function. For the daily press, VAT exemptions and direct production support are the most important means of securing a good economy. It is therefore important that these are passed on. For the Left, the care of the locals is important. They are visible and stimulating local cultural life, a forum for setting the public agenda and are very important to sustain a living local democracy around the country. The left hand side is therefore very pleased that the message is adding up to support for smaller localizations. Although Left also agrees to support so-called No. 2 newspapers should continue, but for us in the future there will still be a balance between these newspapers fulfilling their tasks better or different than the local environment's most selling newspaper. Although the positive effects of having a competitive newspaper environment in larger communities are evident, it should be appreciated whether these newspapers should also be prioritised in the future with specific additional support. The production aid scheme, because it builds up under the established newspaper pattern, can act as a preservative. The left-hand side is also important to facilitate the release of new newspapers in Norway. It is therefore positive that it is put up to a back-up system that can provide a trace of the creation of such new newspapers. Norway is a small country, and a Norwegian public broadcaster faces a number of challenges. In addition to the important task of protecting and developing Norwegian languages and culture, the trend of public education in a media era must be marked by increasing information flows. It must therefore be a public responsibility to ensure a lack of information and that information that is not profit-oriented or profit-based can also be provided. Norway still needs a public broadcasting programme with a high level of government funding. It must ensure that the "smale" provided, but also that it has a built-in application interface. A channel that is very narrow can easily be marginalised and uninteresting. Today's licence funding is a problem, both when technology makes it possible to watch television without a TV set, and when collecting and managing the license, with its control functions. One should consider whether the NRK can be financed directly from the State budget. It should also be assessed whether a licence or other funding can be paid to an own general programming fund, the majority of which will naturally fall to the NRC, but where it must also be possible for others to apply for funds for productions that can be defined as for general programming purposes. This may also apply to local mail. Digital TV allows new services for the population and provides a more efficient distribution of TV signal. A bet on digital TV is necessary. The most important balance will lie in how the digital signals are to be transported to the user. The left is initially critical of a digital ground. We're not against giving concession to the development of such a ground network, but we're very sceptical about the state funding of it. The left is therefore pleased that it has not been concluded when it comes to technology selection and that, in parallel with the earring, alternative forms of distribution will be distributed. The country coverage requirement must still be maintained, i.e. at least 98 pst, as for analogue TV. The balance of power and the spread of power have always been important things for the Left. No one must acquire a monopoly on opinions, either in a restricted area or at national level. Developments in the media market, where some major owners dominate in several types of media, may pose a threat to the shortage of Norwegian media. The left is therefore sceptical about changes in the existing rules on ownership delimitation, but will assess this more closely when the case comes back to political treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1058	On the 150th anniversary of the Polytechnic Association this week, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik gave a speech on the theme ‘Who is governing the country?’. Without shyness, the Prime Minister noted that he and the Government are in charge of the country, but that several actors have power, among others. media. Of course, the media has power, and not least we politicians have to deal with this. The newspapers in Norway play an important role in society. National, regional and local newspapers provide 88 pst. the production of news material, including TV news material. The users themselves think the newspapers fill the news function better than other media, and then we see why the Nordics are the most news-reading people in the world. Maybe it has to do with long, dark and cold winter evenings, but I think it's the opportunity to acquire knowledge as the basis for discussions both at home and at work, which is why. Here the locals are especially useful. Diversity and competition are of great importance, although I, who is from the Bodø area, have just experienced that no. The two papers that came along with the number. The 1st Newspaper and formed a new newspaper. Newspaper Nordland is very good. But such situations are not desirable for diversity. Many people provide information and democracy, and this is the Workers' Party very concerned, as opposed to the Right, who want to cut the press support with the result that no. The 2 newspapers will be removed. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have already reduced press support for the current year and do not wish to rectify this, even if all the media messaging consultations and seminars conclude by being or not being for the newspapers in relation to the press support. We are a newsreading people in this country, and personally I want this culture to continue in the future. It is then important that the ‘News in School’ project be continued and given financial support. In fact, we should spend even more money to contribute to newspaper reading among children and young people. The aim is to provide young people with information and commitment, so as to create an interest in, inter alia: social issues. ‘School News’ is a good contribution to this. We know that TV is taking more and more the attention of children and young people, and we know that children and young people are being affected by an unreasonable purchasing pressure. Yes, even kindergartens are becoming interesting marketing venues for the media. Violence, sex and intoxication are not unusual aspects of youth advertising, and in the 2001 NOU:6 of the Nyborg Committee, the role of the NRK as an advertisement-free channel is strongly highlighted. We need an unadvertised alternative that represents something other than commercial channels. But what about the Internet? What harmful impressions do children get through using the Internet? This needs to be researched more, and it is a challenge for the ministry to get us all better knowledge of this. Our public broadcaster is supposed to provide people with the widest possible radio and TV coverage. The NRK1 shall be the main channel and have a content that people demand, including films. The NRK2 does not cover the whole country and must still be defined as a relief channel. The NRK has gained a more freer position through its A/S, where programme content and day-to-day operation are determined by the Governing Board, while the Stortinget and the Ministry of Culture will provide political leadership. The leadership must be followed, and no NRK has done so in the example of the TV district broadcasts in Northern Ireland. I am therefore pleased that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has raised the matter again, following unclear answers from the Council of State in the debate on the future of the NRC on 7 March this year. In a letter of 9 April 2002, the Monitoring Committee asks whether the Council of State will ensure that Nordic countries receive equivalent regional consignments, i.e.: the same scope as the other district offices during 2002. As you know, Nordland has only been given 5 minutes, while the other offices have 25 minutes. I assume that the Council of State and her party will follow up this matter, and I expect the Council of State to have a clear and positive answer to the question from the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1079	The main reason for public involvement in the media is that a well-developed media system promotes democracy and guarantees freedom of expression. Our thoughts and opinions depend on the media to be able to communicate, meet and suffocate towards each other. It is a clear public responsibility to ensure that there is a built-up and functioning infrastructure for the dissemination of information and statements. As you know, the Freedom of Speech Commission has made suggestions to base this responsibility in its proposal for a new Section 100 of the Constitution. The attitude of the family, culture and administration committee shows that the objectives of media policy are widely debated, and I am pleased about that. Even though there may be some inconsistency about the means of action, it's the measure that gives to know the important questions of value and the direction that we want society to go in. With the exception of the Advance Party, the parties are certain that it is important to maintain press support and that it is necessary to increase support to local authorities. However, there is no doubt about how to do this - whether to increase the frame of surrender or whether it can be redistributed inside the current frame. We must now ensure that this lack of means of action does not mean that we do not achieve what is an important common goal, simply to strengthen the locality. With regard to the regulation of ownership in the media, the Committee has advocated a substantial reduction and simplification of the legislation. I would like to stress that it is important not to draw any hasty conclusions in this matter. It is a very complex field, in which industrial policy, competition policy and cultural and media policy are drawn in and partly in different directions. At present, several sets of rules regulate different aspects of this issue, for different purposes and with different regulatory approaches. It is important to consider these questions in context. With this in mind, and based on the management of the Stortinget, the Ministry of Culture and the Church will now begin an assessment of the media ownership law. The ministry will come back to Stortinget with the matter in a proposition. As soon as the management of the Storting of submitted to the new section 100 of the Constitution opens for it, the Government will also come back with a proposal to legislate the principle in the editor's poster. I am pleased that the Committee sets out as a clear starting point that the State is to govern the NRC at a superior political level and within the framework of the corporate governance. As I also said in the February briefing on the NRC, I agree that it is a political issue to establish them overarching the principle of public broadcasting. But how the NRK chooses to organise and run the company to fulfill this mission, the NRK itself must have the freedom and responsibility to decide. I'm recording that the Labour Party here seems to have changed meaning and now is too much stronger political governance of the NRK than the working party government did in the media news. To this I would say that it was the Workers' Party that in its time got through the reorganisation of the NRK into a limited liability company. Now we have to take the consequences of this and give the board and the board of directors of the NRK the freedom that company forms hold. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre go in to set up a ‘public broadcasting poster’. To this end, I can say that the Ministry of Culture and the Church is already working on defining and defining the public broadcasting mission. The Ministry will base its work on Stortinget’s management of the media message and information on the NRK. I have noticed that the Committee believes that the State should facilitate the maintenance in new distribution channels of a small proportion of the transmission capacity of non-profit organisations, etc. This is what I agree with. The size has at the same time assumed that the development and operation of the digital ground net should be based on a demand in the market and not a state task. One of the arrangements for the network to be profitable must be that those who send pay for it. Therefore, I assume that the organisations concerned will have to pay for the distribution in a digital network in the same way as other content providers, including the public broadcasters. The Committee asks the Ministry to determine the basis for establishing a radio concession at national level. As you know, the postal and telecommunications authorities have produced a report on this. I agree that a radio channel should be established at national level. The establishment of a new channel should, as a minimum, have a negative impact on the broadcasts of established radio channels. I also see it as important that the so-called P4 concession given again from 2004 has a minimum coverage of 90 pst. and may still be a private public broadcaster. The ministry has discovered that a new channel can be based on available frequencies, temporary local radio frequencies, a few channels from today's P4 network and radio frequencies reserved for NRK but not used by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1103	First card to any new P5 on the analogue radio network. I am pleased that the Council of State announced that she would follow it up, but I assume, of course, that there is no prior commitment to certain actors, but an open and real application process and independent assessments of the individual applications. So the question of press support. The Christian People's Party has been in the previous budget, when it has been in opposition, a hot defender of the press support and even exceeded what the Workers' Party has proposed in appropriations. In the media message, the then Labour Party government is proposing a stepping up of the press support. From the Christian People's Party, the tone is now quite different than before. Now we're going to have to go on with the press support. There is nothing to say in the setting up aid, and there is nothing to say about exemptions from dividends for the newspapers that receive press support. It would be nice if the council could elaborate a little bit more on this. When the VAT exemption and the press support came, the two schemes had about the same value. The VAT exemption now has a much greater value than production aid, with the effect that it is the largest and richest newspapers that receive the largest support, while the newspaper that is perhaps the most dependent on aid receives a smaller proportion of the total social contribution. My specific question is: does the Council of State think that is a reasonable distribution? So finally, I would like to hear if the Council of State will follow up on what we say about children and young people and about increased research on media perceptions of children and young people. In another case, a majority of the Committee has now made a significant contribution to strengthening research efforts in Norway. It would have been nice if the Council of State could confirm that some of it will be used to follow up this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1114	First, a new P4. No signal has been given about whom to give it, because it must appear under normal conditions, as the representative also suggested. When it comes to press support, I know what the message says. I also know what we've become about with our partners in government, and it's not so much mentioned that we can't increase the pressure support. The representative mentions at the end that some have made sure that there has been much better conditions for research. Yeah, one actually made sure of a lot of expenditure that means we can't spend money on other areas that we might be planning on prioritizing. Otherwise, the press is supported by a budgetary matter that we are going to address in our budgetary rounds. I am pleased that there is security in order not to eject press support. It's a matter I want to continue working on. How we're going to get the means to possibly increase the pressure, depends on how much the size locks up to other tasks, depending on what freedom we have to increase in our budget, and what we need to give priority to the framework we've seen in total. When it comes to establishment aid and exemptions from dividends, the government party has not said anything in the setting. That's because it says what you're in favour of in the message. As one has not said anything, there is an understanding that these are things that one supports. It's always true that when you type annotation on a staging message, you don't need to point to everything that is written. The most important thing is, in fact, to get unsightly, so that one doesn't do things that you don't want to do. But what's in the message is there, and there's no plurality against it. I'm happy for both of these points, so we're going to follow up on what's in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1125	The digital ground net is perceived by someone as an obsolete system. Others see it as the only gratifying thing. In other countries, this effort has not been very successful. Now the case rapporteur says that investors have finally arrived on the track who want to bet money on this. But is that how it is, then? Is it not also true that there are investors who want to use taxpayers' money to invest with? Not only does this force the Norwegian people to buy a box in order to receive digital broadcasts, but the fact is that we also get an increase in the license – which no one asked the taxpayers if they wanted to. I am therefore surprised that the government can go in to oblige the Norwegian population to buy small boxes and get an increased license to get a digital ground net; the option is black screens. You can claim as high and as long as you want this to be the best for the Norwegian population. But we've had a lot of pressure from licensee who's worried about this extra cost. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State and the rest of the Government mean that it is perfectly OK for taxpayers to be charged an additional fee increase without the licensee being asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1130	The discussion on the digital groundnet is absolutely on the agenda. If someone says it's old-fashioned – or what expression the representative used – and others say that it's the only salvation, I won't join any of these expressions. But I think it's a practical tool to implement a system that makes everyone at the end of the day better able to access different channels, and that even those who are going to send have a better network to send on. When it comes to details, like if the box is going to cost something and what might happen to the license, we have to get back to it when we're in the goal. What it says is, among other things: market-based expansion is also a key principle for broadband deployment and operation in general. The government has not selected any technological platform for digital TV. It has always been a premise that the development of a digital platform should be market-based, and not a state task. Then we have to come back to how it is designed for the individual recipient. When it comes to lifting the license, or other taxes and taxes, and whether we thought it was right to do something about it without asking the licensors: I have never yet experienced a charge or a levy, or have done anything about the tax system, that one has asked the taxpayers or the people who were supposed to pay, before one has suggested it. If we were to do that every time something was changed in the tax policy in Norway, I actually believe that we had a problem getting funds to meet the needs of health care, schooling, transporting us. We will present this to the Storting in a neat and orderly manner. The decision is to be made, and then our citizens will take note of what the political elected bodies have agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1138	As I was in my post, I pointed to an area that the committee had not come into. It's for the 600 000 hearing aids that live in our country. If we're going to be able to raise the quality of life of this group, we can do that by giving them access to the social debate by following live news and news programs on TV. But the problem is that the text is hardly direct. The reason is said to be a lack of technology. I have a challenge for the Council of State: can the Council of State, as a general assembly of the NRK, envisage taking an initiative to ensure that technology from other countries is also used in Norway, with the aim of getting the text of direct programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1148	The representative of Sollied Superior is making a very important point. I can answer that briefly. I want to contact the NRK and listen to what possibilities they have to do with this. Much more concretely, I cannot answer that question. Since I have a few seconds left of my reply, I have to make a small comment about the posts of the representative, Torny Pedersen. She started her speech by naming the Prime Minister, as ‘without shame’ said that he was driving Norway. I want to ask the representative Pedersen about something that she obviously cannot answer – whether she can imagine Jens Stoltenberg as Prime Minister, or for that matter Gro Harlem Brundtland as Prime Minister, standing on the pulpit with shame and saying that she or he was driving Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1158	Now it is well that the representative, Torny Pedersen, does not have the opportunity to answer the question, because the replacement of a string does not go to the representative concerned, so we will see if she comes back in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1161	First I want to follow up a little bit of the previous line from the Workers' Party. We want to get a clear signal from the Council of State that there is no premise for the new concession we are talking about on the analogue network – not what is today’s P4 concession, because we expect competition – that for the new concession to go on the analogue network, there is no pressure for anyone operating on other channels today. I will never stop pointing out the following to the Council of State every time she tries to make the Workers' Party an AS and therefore there is nothing she can do today: we made the NRK an AS because we wanted better political governance, and not the governance that, among other things. The Christian People's Party was busy in the mid-1990s, trying from this pulpit to control NRK's coverage of what happened in the election campaign in Israel. We wanted proper political governance. We did not want to give up political governance. That I made the Council of State aware of in the previous debate we had in this room on the media, and I will also next time make it clear if she has not yet realized that that was not the point. We see it as a disclaimer from the Council of State because she does not want to do anything. Then it could be good to say that, and not push others in front of you. It's interesting to note what happens in ownership. When we dealt with the ownership message and implemented the law, the Christian People's Party went in for us to have 20 pst.-thank you for the national edition. Today we go in for 49 pst. It was the Christian People's Party that was involved in pressing through its own supervision, it was the Christian People's Party that participated in pushing through regional and local regulations, and it was the Christian People's Party that also went in to extend the ownership law in other areas. Today we see that the Christian People's Party is doing the very opposite and is following what has always been the Right Line in ownership. I want to challenge the Council of State and ask if there is anything other than the Sem-Declaration and Bondevik's assets that makes the Christian People's Party now until those degrees have changed its vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1174	I think very well what the representative Alstad said in the previous debate. Therefore, I have read what he said when he was the case spokesperson in Stortinget, about the NRK as a corporation. I have also seen what he said about the freedom NRK should actually have when it was converted into a share company. I agree with a lot of the requirements that the Workers' Party is now going to put into a general programming poster, but the point is that here we've actually given up a part of the governance. No matter what Alstad says from here, a given power is given if one follows the stock laws. I would like to stress that there is a political issue about the NRC to be required to have a good district supply for the whole people. But it's not a political question how they offer this. Similarly, it is a political matter to decide that it is a task for the NRK to promote Norwegian culture, art and music, but it is not a political matter if the Broadcasting Orchestra should continue to live, even if I personally want to. Political governance actually has the representative Alstad and the Labour Party with us. It's also a political matter for us to assess whether the NRK is going to have an offer for the Nordics abroad, but it's actually up to the NRK to decide how to carry out that mission. It's in the stock laws' intentions. I have to stick to that, and the representative Alstad has been involved in introducing it. So I said in the answer to Giske, and I can repeat it, that when there's a fifth concession, a P5, or what one would call it, there's no binding about who's going to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1185	In the past, we have been concerned about this with ownership, especially national, regional and local ownership. But I'm going to take up another kind of ownership, what goes on vertical integration, that is, cross ownership between content and networks. The more control one has over the value chain, the more control one also has over the priority given to some types of content over other types of content. It is also where the fear is that TV 2 and NRK will be able to control too much of who is going to be able to come up with their votes and their content. I get worried when Tor Birdevik in Norway's Television says that one does not have room for local TV, but has room for some other TV companies that for some business reasons will have there. Do the Councils see the need to prevent network companies from having strategic ownership of content companies? And if she means it, what grip will she take? Then to the district offices. Ola T. Lånke said earlier today that he wanted to protect the district offices. Another committee has, to say the least, prints with the Council of State on the Nordland district office. I understand it so that the Council of State will not intervene per. today to ensure that the district office in Northern Ireland receives a full district consignment. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1196	The first thing I'm going to try to answer is what goes on vertical integration. These are difficult issues. The majority do not decide on these questions, so we need to evaluate this. I see clearly these dangers as the representative mentions, and we have to evaluate them based on the situation we have today. I would like to add that the claim that we don't have room for local television, for example, sounds very forward-looking to me. One of the demands I have actually made is that local television also needs to be placed in the transmitter network. Then we'll see these problems in context and try to find solutions to all of the issues that we're concerned about. We are forced to continue working on this, even assuming that the majority in Stortinget has not taken a final position on these questions. When it comes to district offices – at least I have signed a letter to the control committee on that issue, but I do not know about the members of the control committee – it is clear that the NRK has to follow up the decision of the Storting when it comes to NRK Nordland. I'm actually assuming that they do. We know that we're starting shipments now in the fall, and we're not happy with five minutes, as they add up. I've pointed that out for the NRK before, and I'm going to go on until they follow up, because right at that point, they're obliged to follow up what the Storting has decided – as long as the Storting doesn't make a new and different decision, and I don't think the Storing will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1203	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1206	We who live in Norway do not think so much about the importance of the media for freedom of expression and democracy. Freedom of expression is a matter of course in a democracy like ours. We who sat in front of the radio and sang with Prøysen, put two ears on the piggy bank, were glued to the TV and stared at the goldfish in the NRK, dare not tell our children and grandchildren because it sounds like we lived when the dinosaurs lived. Now the information flows out of countless channels. Today there are actually two nationwide television channels in Norway – NRK1 and TV 2. The channels cover 98 pst, respectively. and 95 pst. by the population. TVNorway covers 83 pst. by the population, NRK2 ca. 80 pst. and TV3 58 pst. At regional level, the television offer consists mainly of NRK district broadcasts. The NRC has a total of 17 district offices and 30 local offices delivering drugs to the district and national shipments. The NRK shall be a public broadcaster to ensure the widest possible radio and television provision to the Norwegian people. It must be firmly anchored in Norwegian reality and build belongings through, among others. good district broadcasts. The NRK has its principal income from licence fees, as determined by the Stortinget. It's important to clarify what we as owners want the NRK to fulfil. TV 2 is subject to strict concessional conditions in relation to specific requirements, more than the NRC does. That is why I believe that the Stortinget as a representative of the owners, the Norwegian people, must ensure that the NRK plays its role. Of course, we are aware that the NRK is organised as a limited liability company, but we should be able to have clear expectations of the business that the NRK operates – as it actually is in private companies as well. I have never heard of a company owner who does not show interest in the company's daily operations. Of course, we in this room should not interfere with the daily operation and programme content – you world, it should be speculated – but the Stortinget and the Ministry of Culture should be able to give the political signals, and they should be followed. An example of this is that the Storting has stated that there should be a district office in each state. Now the management of the NRK has decided to merge the district offices in Hedmark and Uppland and in the South and North-Trøndelag. We have been assured that there will be equal coverage of local material even after the merger, and professionally, I cannot contradict this. Whoever lives gets to see, I'm now saying. However, I would like to stress the importance of the local profile and the anchorage for local radio and television. Although Hedmark and Uppland are similar, both states have their peculiarities and cultural differences. I would therefore ask the Council of State, which is politically responsible, to follow closely the development of the NRC's district profile. The members of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, state in a note that locality is also an important supporter of local culture and association. And it should be possible for many, yes most, in this room, to sign. There's not a lot of people in the capital papers here, but in the locals, we might get a little bit of a gap sometimes. There is no lack of readers or poor quality of the editorial product that causes many small local viewers and no. Two newspapers are struggling financially. No, the reason is that these papers have a cost-effective distribution and an insufficient advertising market, because the advertising revenue goes primarily to the largest and leading newspapers. I want as hot as I can, call about the locals and no. The 2 newspapers, and believe that it is absolutely necessary to grant both VAT exemptions and production aid to the daily press for diversity and locality reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1225	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1229	As we have seen from the debate so far, we in the Labour Party are very concerned to facilitate a major lack of media activity. It's absolutely crucial to get information to people, to get a critical searchlight on social development and social actors, and it's absolutely crucial for the People's Government. In this context, I want to say a little bit about newspapers and about the NRK. The Nordics are the world's most news-reading people, we can choose in over 200 newspapers. This is a quality that we must take care of and that we, as politicians, must facilitate in the future. In a large country like Norway, with few inhabitants and scattered busses, this is demanding. The market cannot afford a shortage; political action is needed. The working party wants to pursue an active press policy. The most important measures are that the papers have a VAT system that provides the economic benefits and the support for the press. This press support secures several national newspapers — without press support, probably only three-four would survive. There are multiple numbers left to go. 2 newspapers in the larger cities, among others in my county, Rogaland, and it secures more – or perhaps all – local viewers. The working party goes in not only to keep supported layers, but also to increase them to all these levels. Notes from the Right and Christian People's Party indicate that they do not want to advance supported to No. The two newspapers, since this ‘cannot be said to represent a problem of freedom of expression’. The representative Lånke confirmed this in his article. I remind you that the whole idea of press support has been to prevent monopolistic situations where only one newspaper dominates a region or a city. So far, the arrangements have our say that in several cities there is a real competition and a lack of it. It's important to keep going. It is difficult to imagine Stavanger with only Stavanger Aftenblad, or Bergen without the Bergensavisen. I said in an earlier line today that I do not understand the Christian People's Party's reversal of the will to rule the NRK. We order the Norwegian people to pay close to $1,800 a year and have taken responsibility for steering on their behalf. In the next round, the bulk of the population, including the Christian People's Party, gives them the right to govern NRK's leadership and government. I was in the preparation of the concession terms for TV 2, and there's no doubt that we're now controlling their business more through the concession terms than the multiple is willing to control the NRK. I think the idea is that a general programming poster is brilliant, but unfortunately the plural does not support this. They are passive and watch that the district office is shut down or shut down, that the Broadcasting Orchestra is closed, and that the Nordics abroad lose their important daily contact with the home country via the international broadcasts. Understand the one who can. I don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1244	When it comes to focusing on children and young people in media policy, we have noticed that reducing the commercial pressure on children and young people has long been an objective of the majority in the United Kingdom. As we are all familiar with, a sample, the Nyborg Committee, was set up in 2001: 6, with the title: ‘Rising with a price tag? On commercialisation and purchasing pressure against children and young people.’ Here the sample considered it very important to maintain the NRK as an advertising-free zone for children and young people, representing something different from the content of commercial channels. I want to note a trend I think has become more apparent now than before. The NRK’s children’s programmes sometimes reflect the use of commercial strategies aimed at children, in terms of product placement and other e.g. after a series, which has created strong needs for the purchase of similar products. I would like to point out that it is important that the NRK is very aware that there should be no children's programmes that function as part of a larger sales concept of various goods and by-products. There is cause for concern if Norway cannot refuse the retransmission of television broadcasts because the advertising is contrary to Norwegian law, the sender country of which is either EEA country or has acceded to the TV Convention. A sender country will be the country where the company is established. I have noticed that the Consumer Ombudsman’s argument that this type of regulation falls under national law has not been taken into account by the EFTA Court of the Market Council. From this point of view, the Socialist Left Party has made the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to find out how the law aimed at preventing advertising aimed at children and young people in Norway can be implemented and apply to cable, broadband, satellite facilities and digital ground network.’ Laws and regulations are not always enough. There are not always effective measures aimed at children and young people either. Children and young people are skilled users of modern technologies and new media, and often have access to material outsourced by speculative actors. Public venues where children and young people have access to new media, such as schools, libraries, leisure clubs and others, should, in our opinion, draw up action plans to address the negative information in a constructive and positive way. In the light of this problem, the Socialist Left Party has made the following proposals: ‘The government is asking for an action plan on how children and young people can learn to become more aware and critical of what they are exposed to, and what strategic instruments are being used to achieve commercial goals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1261	SV – together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party – points to the special position of the paper newspapers in the social debate. In reality, the public conversation – and therefore the prerequisite for us as individuals to form an opinion on social developments, and then to participate in democratic discussions – is entirely dependent on a variety of newspapers and maritime newspaper editorials. A Danish study shows that almost 90 pst. of all the news was originally produced by the newspapers. In other words, without the newspapers, the newsprint would look completely different. The daily press committee argues to increase the direct press support and introduce a new grant model for paragraph 1. The 2 newspapers and the nationwide, meaningful newspapers. This is SV agreed, and this is what SV will work for. The rapporteur has said publicly several times that the number is not so dangerous. The two papers. I wonder if his party traps in Bergen agree. Alternative points of view are important. And when I see Bergen's magazine sitting here, I would like to stress that there is no complaint in Bergen's Official Journal, but it is important that Bergen's Official Journal has someone else next to it, so they are not allowed to create a media monopoly. It does not serve democracy, it has not served democracy in Trondheim, nor will it serve in Bergen. So to our proposal on the General Broadcasting Council. The content of the media has a cultural policy justification. We have many different regulations, but most of them have a competition policy or a consumer policy justification. Owning the newspaper editorials in the neck requires more returns. That is what we believe to promote harmonisation and commercialisation, and it threatens diversity. We have also seen that this type of thinking has spread to the NRK, with more emphasis on listening and viewing numbers. Therefore, content regulation is important. SV therefore disagrees with the Convergence Committee when they call for a reduction in content regulation. We have set the General Board to be a watchmaker, but as long as the necessary tools are not advised, they can be ‘beasts’ without risking being taken seriously by the actors. The GSC only has an advisory function, has no permanent secretary, no secretariat and no independent ability to intervene against companies that do not comply with their obligations as public broadcasters. The long-term trend, both nationally and transnationally, is in the direction of the reduction of the cultural policy regimes. That is why we in SV will work to ensure that the Danish Broadcasting Council has some tools to take care of the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1274	The Internet is already at full speed into the thousand homes. For younger age groups in particular, the Internet is the natural channel for information. Internet-based solutions will soon be an important channel for the distribution of programmes we today regard as radio and TV, and the online newspapers will be natural supplements to the daily paper paper that we read for lunch. The Internet has no limits and is not edited in the same way as today's media. Here it is free flow of information without anyone having the authority or the ability to silt or lay down rules for what to distribute. The right-hand view of the Internet as an innovation with great opportunities for communication between people. But the Internet in the media policy context challenges us in important areas, such as editorial responsibility and privacy. Here it becomes a big and important task that we are able to continue the ethical standards we have today in the press, radio and TV. Another major challenge, however, may be in the cultural policy areas, which have also been addressed by many. In response to international cultural influences, it is important that we, as Norwegian users, also have a large internet area of information and entertainment that originates from Norwegian culture. This is about language and other expressions where we feel at home. If we're going to do this, we have to drastically increase the production of Norwegian-based content. This will only happen on the day the content producers make money. The current situation is that the telecommunications companies receive the revenues through their counter chalk, while the content suppliers are struggling very hard to keep the wheels running. This cannot continue. In the context of the media communication work, the Committee has come to understand that there is also a growing recognition among telecommunications companies that there has to be a development here. Without good content, nor use of services. This is logical, and we have expectations that the telecommunications companies, the networks and the content producers will find good solutions. The right view is that technological developments do not only lead to convergence between the media. Developments also lead to the interlinking of media policy, cultural policy and industrial policy. On the right, this looks like an area of opportunity, and will work to take out the potential for growth between culture and industry. Content production for the network is an important field here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1289	Media plays an increasingly important role as agenda-holders in our society, but also has many other important roles. Media lets people out most, experts and politicians, with our arguments and facts. Even if the debate in this Chamber is important, it is on the debate pages in the 200 locals that most people get out with their opinions. I come from a state and a part of the country where we have a lot of good local guides. Hordaland is well represented in the Norwegian press. Bergensavisen and Bergen's Official Journal are among the largest Norwegian newspapers, and it is in my opinion an important explanation that Bergen can be both a big city and a small town. The good localities in Bergen and the West write about large and small things that happen in their communities, inform, create debate and bind the community together. The good localities play an important role in democracy, and they manage important local community knowledge and history. They are among the most important cultural institutions in their communities. All good communities must be built if we are to have a good community. Unfortunately, it is often the case that the locals outside Oslo are forgotten in the media debates, or they are overwhelmed by media that are closer to us here on the Stortinget. For this reason, I am very pleased that both in the message and in the settings of the Committee, the importance of local settings for Norwegian society, politics and culture is highlighted. But I am calling for a more active and positive press policy from the Bondevik government. It was not a good promise that any of the first government did after it took over was to cut the press release by $30 million. kr. I want a higher level of ambition from the government party than from the setting. Both the Christian People's Party and the Right have, in my opinion, signed when they put in the setting that preferably there should be two newspapers in each publishing place. It has proved not to be possible, but there is no problem with freedom of expression. Yes, that's the way it can be said. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party did not think it was so dangerous whether Bergen should miss Bergensavisen, or whether Tromsø would miss the magazine Tromsø. But in Bergen and in Tromsø, they're probably completely incoherent in it. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party also argue in the setting that local monopoly newspapers are so good. I assume that with this, they think that local monopoly newspapers are okay anywhere other than in Oslo. So I'm asking why that? Is it that we should stick with a lack of newspapers and media just in the capital? Can't the capital media also need a challenge and a strong newspaper environment, both in the West and in Northern Norway? We who live there are busy having more newspapers. Therefore, I encourage the Bondevik government to invest in the lack of media.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1300	There have been some allegations in the debate about No. The two papers that I need to comment on. But let me just first mention that it cut as it was referred to, it was not at 30 million. NOK 20 million. kr. Enough about that. The representative Valle – and in particular the representative Giske in the past – said that we thought it was not so dangerous with no. The two papers. Then it's important to make a little distinction. Of course, we believe that any newspaper is entitled to claim opinions. Of course, I do not think that the Bergensavisen is worse than the magazine of Bergens. But it's a fact that there are now eight places left in this country where there are two newspapers. There is therefore no basis for a general political demand for two newspapers in each place of publication. The political goal, I think, we have to say that we have not been able to achieve. That, of course, does not mean that those numbers. The two papers we have left are worse or less justified than other newspapers. I think the representative Giske was quite rude when he pointed out that the right felt there was a big difference between national newspapers and no. 2 newspapers. So we're not the ones that divided into those categories. The working party has controlled most of the time these categories have worked. We just point out that one of these two categories does not eventually have a good reason for their support. Maybe you should redefine what should be the basis? With regard to ownership, I would like to comment on the example of Berlusconi, who might want to buy into TV 2. I'm changing the example a little bit, which was that Schibsted would sell his TV 2 shares. Now let's say it wasn't Schibsted, but another company, Orkla or the A-press, that owned these shares. In fact, Berlusconi could easily buy the shares, because he does not already own anything in Norway and would hardly get up in any particularly significant percentage through those shares. But Schibsted had not been able to buy the shares, because they have passed the 33 p.m. level, which is the roof of today's ownership. And here we are in the middle of the problem. We don't make it through square rules to control so that we always get the ball to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1311	After all, I was a little calmed down when the representative Thommess kind of de-dramatized what we said about No. The two papers that the Right don't think it's so dangerous with them. But when he uses the reason that there are only eight places left where there are two newspapers, yes, there should be extra attention around the number. The two papers. Because it's a fact that they've worn out over a long time, also because they've lost their advertising revenue. It's the biggest regional newspapers running away with the biggest advertising revenue. If it is important to maintain two newspapers for the sake of freedom of expression, we must do something to enable them to survive, and then it is important to do more with press support than the majority has been willing to do at present. Both Statskonsult and ECON have demonstrated that no. The 2 newspapers and also the nationwide, meaningful newspapers have rationalized into the bone, that there is nothing more to go on. Ergo, we have to do something actively. For my example with Berlusconi. This is about whether it is possible to purchase in order to achieve strategic ownership. Of course, as long as it's 33 pst. by e.g. TV 2, it will not be so attractive for Berlusconi and others to purchase. But the bigger the strategic ownership you can get, the more attractive it will be to get a foot within here. So to something that I didn't get the time for in my previous post. Both the message and the Daily Press Committee have shown how important it is to have a set of sources to use to clarify matters, that one is not just using power as a source. Here I'm busy getting women into the media. There are several documented cases of women being used less as a source than men being used as a source. There is reason to believe that there is a connection between the number of women leaders in the editorial work, the number of women editors, and the extent of the use of women as a source. This is why it is so important to ensure that more women are admitted to leadership positions in the media, and this is related to how much we are willing to spend on continuing training, including in the media. It is a challenge for the Council of State to take on board that we must also ensure equality here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1322	I want to go back to Berlusconi. Once again, the representative is blocking Valle's goal, because there is nothing in today's system, in today's ownership law, that can prevent what she describes. What she's describing just illustrates the need for us to have a more complex basis of jurisdiction, which allows us to address the current issues that are coming up on an ongoing basis. For example, today's ownership law defines the percentage of ownership based on how many newspapers a group actually accounts for. It says e.g. nothing about how much of the advertising money actually flows through the same group. This is something that competition law would be able to approach in a completely different way, and which is probably a more interesting issue in terms of diversity than exactly the number of newspapers. So the point is we're going to have a balance in Norwegian ownership, but we're not just going to have a balance that's defined by some square criteria that don't meet the objectives we've set. We need more and more complex provisions, so that we can both have sound funding for the media companies, that we can safeguard freedom of expression, and that we have good competitive conditions. In particular, it is very important in the field of advertising. There I also believe that the Competition Authority has already begun to follow closely the way this works around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1331	Both the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt and the last representative of Frøiland have been within the Christian People's Party and the view of No. The two papers, and I think it requires a little answer from our side. I think it is necessary to refer to other parties, that you are at least close to the contents of the 'quotes' you use, so that you do not get hurt to say anything other than what we have said. I understand that reference is made to the position underlying this debate. There we say nothing but that we find that it has not been possible to maintain a situation with two newspapers in many places. In my post I took this up, and there was no reference to Bergen or Bergensavisen. I want to quote myself. I said, ‘As far as possible, it should continue to be an objective to contribute to newspaper advertising in those places where there are still two newspapers. But in some cases, we've seen that the constraint of the market indicates that there's only room for one newspaper. Then maybe it's better with one strong good newspaper than with two weak and bad." I think that's all the reason to maintain the Bergens newspaper. Now I think actually the Bergensavisen is an exception in many ways in this context, it goes pretty well. I'm not so worried about it. The Christian People's Party believes that the press support should continue to be included and take care of no. The two papers. What we're talking about is the device on the entire press stand, considering that the market is also changing from time to time. I myself come from an area where we have lost no. The 2 paper, and how one big regional newspaper dominates very much. I actually think it's both in the interests of the people and in the interests of the newspapers that there had been a competitor at that place. But I don't think it's possible by means of the production aid to establish a new competitive newspaper in Trøndelag. Then we need to look at other opportunities to strengthen competition, including: through other types of media and through media at other levels in the media image. That's how I think the Norwegian society with so far a limited market has to think about competition in a slightly different way than just by maintaining artificial two newspapers in the same place. So just a small remark about Berlusconi, which we've also been through in a context in the past, and which clearly has a great interest in the Agot Valle representative. I don't think any of us want Berlusconi to come and do anything in the Norwegian media world. But with a little – what to say – side view of Italy, I actually think the situation there is so that they can be a little happy that Berlusconi does what he does, because the alternatives are worse. And we don't have that kind of situation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1347	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2447]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1364	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2448]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1381	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1401	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1418	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1438	More and more people are being taken for crimes in Norway. Among the younger, in particular, developments are worrying. More than 34 pst. of those targeted for crimes in 2000 were under 21 years of age. For the last ten years, we have seen an increase in terms of both simple thefts, drugs, damage, violence and threats. This demands the responses that politicians adopt when someone does something wrong. It becomes extra demanding when the lawbreakers are younger and younger. The fact that there are now more than 2,000 people in line waiting for a settlement, which is one of the most important forms of reaction we have, is very critical. Only since September last year shall the number be increased by the equivalent of 30 pst. In addition to increased crime, we know that the police are increasing their clearance rate, the courts are faster, and the penalties are getting stronger. Often, prison sentences are used. The community and political debate call for prison sentences, preferably as far as possible when crime is committed. At the same time, we know that parole should no longer be ‘automatic’ but subject to assessment by the prison authorities. The pressure on the settlement sites has not been reduced by the fact that for several cases both police and politicians have been asked that custody should be used to a greater extent than today. As if this is not enough: we see a decline in the use of alternative punishment for prison, as a community service, now social punishment. For the younger ones, this is not a happy development. There can therefore be no surprises for anyone that we have cows for atonement today. This is not a passing problem, but a development that will only continue if we do nothing. It is surprising, therefore, that the Minister of Justice despite several calls, including: here in Stortinget, so far has delivered very little in this area. There is reason to call for strategy, action and will, taking into account, in particular, the fact that an overall Justiscomite in the budgetary position last autumn stated the following: ‘To ensure the proper functioning of the criminal action chain, a balanced and flexible supply of resources to the different stages must be provided. If this is not reconciled, resource supply could lead to a build-up of issues elsewhere.’ The Committee shall continue in its budgetary position: ‘In order to prevent a new imbalance in the criminal chain and thus reverse the positive developments we have seen in order to speed up criminal proceedings, increased resources to the courts and criminal justice must be given priority in the coming years.’ In my opinion, clear speech! In view of this, I had expected an initiative from the Minister of Justice on measures that could make the situation better than it is today. The Labour Party felt that this work was so urgent that it proposed an increase of 20 million in funding for the Criminal Service in that budgetary position. kr. This was as well-known as voted down. Penalties have no preventative effect as long as people do not react to their actions. The fight against crime often requires a hard, cash, clear and not least rapid response. It helps very little for a 17-year-old and the community around him that he is called into atoning only when he approaches the 20. As is the case today, this also affects other areas of criminal justice. I have received reports from the whole country – and at the latest in the evening post today we can read about the situation – how the pressure on the use of custody is increasing. It is totally unacceptable, and dangerous, that, among other things, rape victims or others must be released from custody due to a lack of detention places despite the existence of a detectable risk of recurrence. Respect for and trust in our legal system can quickly get a serious break in several such single events. Nor is it very good that the settlement queues help to keep sight of people longer than they are legally under police arrest. Staying here beyond 24 hours is not sustainable. Norway does not need any further comments from the torture committee. The fight against crime is one of the most important challenges we face. However, we should be very careful to turn the debate on combating crime into a debate on who is calling the highest, who is proposing the'most', which is the most extreme, and who gets the greatest notice. Obviously, it is the obvious and simple solutions that should be cultivated. The effort to get rid of the reconciliation queues doesn't need any political genius. It is the will and effort that is now being called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1466	I agree that the situation with regard to the payroll queue is serious. As I said in the Great Britain Question Time of 20 February this year, it is important that the individual convicted person has a noticeable response to crime as quickly as possible, and it is important that society sees it react. Thus, the reconciliation queue is helping to weaken both the effectiveness of the fight against crime, people’s sense of justice and the credibility of the actors in the criminal justice chain. At the end of the 1980s, a significant queue was built. There has been some uncertainty about the size of the old reconciliation queue. I have previously used both the number 9 000 and the term ‘under 7 000’ in the case of a judge. The figures vary slightly in the previous statistics we review, because the basis of registration has varied. In some contexts, there have been cases where a request for a pardon has been made; in other contexts, these cases have been left out. For example, over a period of time, the figures based on those judgments that were not implemented within three months, and later we increased the rate requirement to two months for the situation now. So the numbers aren't completely comparable. The main point, however, is that it was an unacceptablely large propitiatory queue, and through a deliberate investment over time, it was built. The same challenge exists today. The decommissioning plan that was put in place in due course had the following main points: construction of new prisons and extension of existing prisons in order to increase the number of prison sites increased capacity utilisation in open prison refurbishment of housing for housing purposes under the prison law § 12extended use of advanced release duplicates in 75 cells As a result of the measures, the queue was gradually reduced to 1,351 in July 1994. The queue was then declared liquid. In 1998, the queue consisted of 148 judges. From 1999 onwards, a stricter definition of queues was introduced than that previously used. The deadline for implementation was, inter alia, the following: reduced from three to two months after receipt of a judgment. By the end of 1999, the settlement queue had again begun to rise and was 1,063 judges. Over the last two years, the queue has increased further, to 2,057 judges per year. 31 December 2001. The Ministry carried out in 1994 — i.e. under a workers’ party government — an estimate of the need for prison places in 2000, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 1994-95. The analysis concluded that there was a need for approx. 3350 prison places in 2000. In St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98, on criminal services, the Ministry reviewed the need for prison sites. The estimates showed that the need would be between 3100 and 3300 prisons in 2000. The actual situation is that in 2000 and 2001, the criminal justice system had approximately 2,900 detention centres. That it is now starting to build up a new queue, is therefore not surprising. Despite the forecasts, previous governments have not been able to provide sufficient funds to increase the number of prison sites. The new Penal Code was introduced on 1 March this year. The law contains a new criminal reaction, social punishment, which replaces the previous criminal reaction to community service and conditional judgment with supervision, including supervisory programmes. Societal punishment means a restriction of freedom rather than abduction. However, it is the court who condemns this criminal reaction and, of course, the ministry cannot adopt or instruct in an increased use of this reaction. Criminal law will continuously ensure that the prosecution authority and the courts are informed of the reaction and follow-up to the judgment that will be given. On this point, I agree with the representative of Storberget that this is an important instrument in terms of criminal execution. There will be a desired development of criminal policy on the issue of the social penalty, which can take away a significant amount of punishment as an alternative to shorter prison sentences. In 1996, a pilot scheme with pro-mille programmes was set up in the field of health care. Per mille programme is an alternative punishment to unconditional imprisonment for people who have driven more than 1.5 per mille or who have previously been convicted of per mille driving and who have an alcohol problem. The programme has been established in 12 counties since 2002. During 2001, 190 judges on the pro-mille programme were launched in the then nine sample groups. The main weight of the judgments was passed in the five sample groups that have been involved since the start of the scheme in 1996. In the countries where the scheme was established in the last half of 2000 and in 2001, there is still a large unused potential of judges, because it takes some time before the programme is so well known in the county that the criminal justice system makes full use of it. The current situation is that the general production of criminal cases in the police/enforcement and courts exceeds the prison capacity established. There is nothing to suggest that, in the coming years, penalties will be reduced, and the Government has therefore stated in the Sem Declaration that it will work to increase prison capacity. This is what I, the Minister of Justice, can contribute to. Unfortunately, establishing increased prison capacity is not a matter of hand-turn. New prison sites shall also have satisfactory standards, both in relation to security and control challenges and in relation to the rehabilitation efforts to reduce relapse, and shall be staffed by trained personnel. These conditions do not automatically make it an appropriate instrument to take over abandoned defence facilities or other institutions. Experience has shown that the cost of refurbishment of facilities for prison purposes is as high as the cost of building new ones, without, however, obtaining good ‘special buildings’. One of the measures considered is the use of Vardåsen camp for prison. Each camp is now being assessed by State Building, and we will receive a report in May/June with technical evaluation and analysis of costs by converting the facility into a prison. The preliminary indications are that this seems to be a good basis for a new Kongswinger Prison, which will increase its capacity. This action will in that case be given priority, and I will come back to this in budgetary terms. In addition, we are working on expanding the capacity of existing institutions. There we have basic investments, including: in infrastructure. We can get good quality extensions at the lowest cost level possible. I will come back to this in budgetary terms. We are working on a new, large prison in Eastfold, where I have recently decided that the prison should be located on the offered plot in Halden. The further follow-up to this project I will also come back to in the budgetary process. Overall, the measures currently being undertaken or under planning represent an increase of approx. 390 detention centres. As a prerequisite for the expansion of prison capacity, we have provided for increased admission to the prison school. We aim to ensure that this high admission takes a few years to come in order to ensure the competence of criminal justice. With regard to the immediate measures, I would like to point out that we now have a high capacity utilisation. The coating in 2001 was 94 pst. in Norwegian prisons. We have duplicates where the prison management believes it is health and safety-relevant – a total of approx. 25 doubles at any time to date this year. So we've pushed this as far as we can. The priority of the referee for remuneration is clear: priority is given to the Staff, long judges and judges, where the police state that sentences are active referees, priorities are given, and also shorter sentences of violence or violence-related judges. This will mean that others can sit and wait for a time, i.e. longer than two months. We have the greatest pressure here in the East. Therefore, it is no coincidence that Vardåsen, as I have so far received a positive description, is a current possibility. Therefore, there is no coincidence that work is being done on a new prison in Eastfold. It is simply to reduce the pressure that is present. The representative of Storberget took up the situation of young offenders at the beginning of his speech. There is no doubt that there are opportunities at an early stage both to prevent crime and to have reactions other than those involved in the criminal response. These are issues that the Government will address in a case announced by the Storting, on measures against child and youth crime, and on the issue of early action. It may help to reduce a pressure on zoning in prison. At least we should not aim for young people to go there. On the contrary, we have to be concerned about finding other solutions. I have previously been involved in the article on the point of community punishment and will stress that we will carry out the kind of information work that is sound in relation to the prosecution authority, in order for this reaction to become known. We also have the opportunities that lie in the development of the pro-mille programme in the countries where it is now established. But as I've said before, it takes a certain time before the system sits down, but where it's settled, it starts to produce results. As far as the representative of Storberget's polemics, which fortunately wasn't of the sharpest kind, I think for once, because I don't like to be polemic, that I want to show that in 1994 it was estimated that there was a need of 3,350 places. As you know, there was no civil government then, and it went for a certain time without us getting 3,350 seats. My starting point to say this – I'm not going to repeat it later – is simply to encourage a certain amount of excitement in order for us to get good solutions. I would also like to point out that, as far as I recall, the Labour Party government, from 1990 to 1994, had pushed forward release. That is to say, you had some kind of criminal record. It's very easy to take the high C, but creating solutions requires something more. It was a very sympathetic move that the Workers' Party would invest 20 million. kr on Criminal Welfare. They prioritised it at the expense of other purposes that I did not agree with. I think we all have it in common that we're earned that compensation is liquidated as well as possible. In any case, since the representative Storberget has had the habit of asking me this question, I would like to say that I am, in fact, grateful for it. He's doing the social debate the service that keeps these questions up in the daylight, so they don't go away. My additional comments are more related to the very form of debate and to the moralising index finger, but the pressure and commitment I feel are very important for the matter. It's not of the simplest things to do with, but we should try what we can, in order to find good solutions together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1540	I will not continue either – to the extent that we have driven polemics in relation to this issue. I do believe that both the Council of State and the undersigned have also had an opportunity to state that this field is so important that the description of history so far becomes uninteresting as long as it does not help us to find today's solutions. That's why I stayed in my post very little by the story. I feel that the situation today is very serious in relation to the number and the consequence – as I said in my main post – this has too much to do, among other things. the settlement of settlements, but to the greatest extent also with regard to the issue of custody. The situation is also serious because today we see moves that contribute to this becoming a permanent situation if we do not grasp it. So, this isn't adhoc situation that we've come up with for some particular reason. But we have a criminal justice system that produces more criminal cases and points to prison sentences as an alternative, which makes it possible for us, as politicians, to also demand quick and clear answers in order to resolve the situation. There I would particularly challenge the Minister of Justice, because I think in many ways this is something missing. We are awaiting the situation in relation to the revised national budget, but I would like to point out, however, that there have been many types of local measures that could remedy the situation around Norway. The box is drawn out, but there has been something that has been in the cards for a long time. I had expected to get on the track more quickly in relation to this. Here the municipality has, among other things: point to a project that combines prison and the possibilities of a training and competence centre for criminals. This project is very exciting in relation to the challenge we face. In fact, you have a facility that, in my opinion – I have been there sea and seen – is very well suited for this. There is also a discussion about our northernmost states and what pressure you have on them in terms of reconciliation and care, among other things. on the establishment of detention centres in the Nordic counties. I think this should have been interesting, and that's something you might have come up with a lot further in today's situation, all the time we've known these numbers are as brutal as they actually are. Now, fortunately, it's not long before we're going to deal with the revised national budget, but I think there's reason to say that this isn't about ingenious actions, but it's actually about showing political will and maybe some creativity in relation to launching some projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1551	It was only the recognition I received that the Workers' Party had not, in fact, been sitting with the government in recent years, which made me want to say one sentence. I'm not going to repeat this anymore. As far as Vardåsen is concerned, I have seen that the Justice Committee was occupied by Vardåsen as a prison institution. If it is suddenly to become something else – if it is to become a detention centre and competence centre – then I would say that we are suddenly inside a completely different landscape. How I deal with that question can the Storting deal with when it comes to it. But I guess the Storting is interested in that we have reconciliation capacity, whether it's closed or open spaces, and that if we need centres of expertise or training, we'll be able to find other and more suitable forms of it. I actually got a little surprised at that twist in the answer. I understood from the main post to Storberget that he was busy raising the capacity, both in terms of closed and open spaces, and that he was also concerned about what we call community punishment and other alternative forms of reaction. But it'll show you what you're really up to when the practical measures are on the table. I see the connection between the pro-mille programmes that I have mentioned, the 12-sonship that I have mentioned, the social penalty that I have mentioned, and the need for open and closed prisons, and it is a fact that there is a lack of open and closed prisons. So that's the way to have places that are sound. They're going to be built in a proper way, and we're going to have a reasonable crew. I'm set up in the right time and in any context to come back to it and will, of course, follow it up. If, in the debate on this, we can also take the perspective that we can reduce some of the pressure on prison by being able to get a significant pressure on preventing crime, especially among children and young people, we are actually beyond the debate on prison institutions. Then we are in the debate on child protection and child protection. Then we are in a case that the Government will also present during this six months, and that will contribute to the whole. Then I ended up there, because I realized that it was the opening sequence of the representative Storberget, namely to see a whole and see if there were several forms to react to, and that it was the context of this that was the important thing from the point of view of society – that is, not one reaction, but that it was reacted. For minors, it is not the punishment that is the point, but that there is someone who responds and sets a limit. For those who are above the criminal valvaldeler, the reaction in appropriate form is the most important. We agree that you should not wait long.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1567	I'm not going to moralize, and I'm not going to polemize the situation in the criminal justice system either. The situation is so serious and so important to be resolved that it demands that we all contribute to an effective and good debate on this. Today's interpellation isn't coming a second too early. The situation in the criminal justice system has been significantly worsened in a short period of time. Prison cows have doubled in two years, and only since September last year is the number increased by 30 pst. We now see that young people son several years after the criminal offence was committed, and more than 2,000 convicted people are now waiting for their sentences to be remedied. The strong involvement of the police in recent years has resulted in the detection of more crime, and the percentage of information has increased. The Courts have become more effective and the penalties have also become more stringent. The lack of criminal care in recent years now results in a severe imbalance in the criminal chain and thus a pressure on the settlement sites. The reactions of the audience are partly quite strong. I understand that the victims of crime are upset by the fact that criminals who have caused their family grief and pain continue to go free. It is also understandable that it is outrageous to see that the aim of gross acts of violence is released from custody because of a lack of detention places. For each individual citizen, this is based on trust in the legal system, and that is understandable. It is unsustainable for all parties, both for the police, for the judiciary, for the offender, for the relatives and also for politicians, that we have long pay queues. Good criminal care must also be preventive, i.e. the deterrent effect of the threat of punishment so that new crimes are not committed. Waiting for years to be punished is not preventative. The fight against crime requires a hard, cash and swift response, not least to the youngest criminals. The figures also show that in recent years, crime has become more and more serious among the youngest, and record teenagers were imprisoned last year. Active work now needs to be done in several areas, in the development of prisons, in rehabilitation programmes, in more use of alternative punishments and in the continued commitment to effective justice. Reconciliation queues are not just due to lack of detention facilities. The difficult economy has made it possible, among other things: Ring-rich prisons and Trondheim prisons for periods keep entire departments closed. Lack of qualified staff is another problem. The government must now show the will to bet on the crime scene. The working party will contribute to the current take-up of this power cap. I urge all of us to work together to solve the problems of criminal justice, and that we neither polemize nor moralize on this serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1586	I am pleased that the representative Storberget is putting this important matter on the agenda. I think it is good that Stortinget can now further underline the need we have to bring down the atoning queues. I have to say, however, that I am a little surprised, among other things. the last post, where it seemed that everything was very well until the government change, and afterwards it has gone wrong. There was no great effort to bring down the reconciliation cows from the Workers' Party in the last few years. These problems were easy to predict. With the increased supply of resources to the police, more cases are being resolved, more criminals are being taken, and more convictions are being handed down. If you don't have a prison capacity to catch this, you're going to increase the pay queue. You're busy with this in the Government. In the context of the budget, we had long and numerous discussions relating to the possibility of expanding the settlement capacity. Where the camp is one of the measures, and the possibility for private people to enter and build prisons is another possibility, to which the Workers' Party said no. This has resulted in a number of contacts from different parts of the country, where there are actually good projects that are under planning and that people want to start, from North Norway, the South, the East and the West. That's good. It shows that it is possible to do something here, but of course it is on resources, and it is, of course, on concrete appropriations. I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now signaling so strongly that they will be involved in lifting this sector. It's of course a problem, as Gunn Karin Gjul says, that it goes too long from them to people coming in to atonement. This is a problem for society, and it's a problem for the one who's going in and out — it's an advantage to get settled as quickly as possible. I would also like to stress that the problem of larger cows for settlement is partly due to an increase in the production of criminal cases by the prosecution authority and the court, which I was faced with, without the corresponding increase in prison capacity. It's a pleasure to see that there's more efficiency in parts of the criminal chain, we have to be happy about that and not make a problem. So it's going to be to follow up this by getting the number of settlements expanded. I hope we can now start a prison at Vardåsen camp, and it's going to be a prison to expand the settlement capacity, not necessarily a new center of expertise. It's going to be a place where people can come in to make amends so that we can reduce the reconciliation queue. We've also decided to build a new prison in Halden. It'll be important, but it'll take time. On the part of the government parties, we consider other measures and hope that the Workers' Party will be dissolved, including non-traditional measures. This is an important debate, where we must stand together to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1599	Like speakers before me, I'm very happy that we get this debate and get a discussion on how to solve this problem. After listening to some of the opening speakers, we should probably not have had this problem strictly from the enthusiasm that the hall has shown so far. But the fact is that we have a problem, and we have to do something about it. It's clear that once we've strengthened the police, prosecution authorities and the courts, we get more judges, and that means we're getting an aberration in the criminal case chain. For the Progress Party, I will give a signal to the Minister of Justice: if there is a commitment to criminal justice and the expansion of prison capacity, we will at least follow up and support it. There's a point that there's a lack of respect for those who are subjected to criminal acts when they meet their attackers out when they were supposed to be inside. It's quite understandable that most people react when they read newspaper articles that we have to release people because we don't have the capacity. People don't expect it to be like this, and neither should it be. If it is that the economy is a core problem for the Government, then the majority of the Committee made several creative contributions during the budget negotiations in the autumn. Among other things, we said that a test project should be carried out in the case of prisoner transport. So if the figures that some people found there are correct, it was possible to save relatively large amounts, which in our opinion should at least be ploughed back to the justice sector, so that it is strengthened overall. At this point, I am disappointed with the Minister of Justice who was not at all concerned with the possibility of an OPS system in the field of criminal law, namely that private individuals can build prisons that criminal services can benefit themselves. I hope the system shouldn't be so rigid that we only look at the solutions that have been good in the past. Also in this sector, we need to be creative and maybe untraditional to move on, at least that's important for our part. And then, of course, we also join those who have brought this up with young lawbreakers. I think there are too many, perhaps especially the young, but also for others who commit a lesser stupidity -- let's say that they are running too fast and being fined, let's say that they are taken with the prom and sentenced to a lower sentence -- are significantly worse to be in the queue than it is for some of the hard criminals. Here are the people who get hit hard, let's say that after they get the verdict, they've found a roommate, they've had a baby, and then they know that they've been hanging over a sentence that they have to go in and zone someday. It's totally unsatisfactory, and we have to do something about it. So, for our part, we look forward to a revised national budget, and we also look forward to the budget procedure for the autumn. For the Progress Party we took a stake last year in the police, prosecution and court, now it's the turn of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1610	First, I want to thank the interpellant, Storberget, for bringing up such an important debate. I would also like to mention first that SV was involved in the alternative budget proposal that went on a significant increase in criminal custody of 20 million. kr. Our responsibility – we who are sitting here – extends far beyond the challenges of expanding the atoning capacity. If we're going to do something about the settlement queues, it's not the construction of more prisons that are this hall's big challenge for the future. We can never build enough prisons to face the consequences of the Advance Party's policy. It's by basing on reality, in the research done on who are criminals in Norway, that we can get something that helps, not by basing on myths that it's the immigrants who are criminals, and that the solution is to send the most out of the country. In that case, a very accurate suggestion would be to send all men of their best age to Bear Island or another suitable place. If we look at who is the typical prison in Norwegian prisons, we find the following, and this is interesting: The typical prison in Norwegian prisons is a man, in his to date best age, low-educated, poorly connected to the labour market, poor economy and with drug problems. If we take this as a starting point, we can get a constructive discussion about cows and about what kind of societies we want. Then maybe we can start by trying to figure out how we can do something with increasing social differences in our country, with too many young boys falling out of the school system, with the unemployment of immigrants far higher than that of the Nordics, with the growing trouble of society. If we spend an increased dose of resources on child protection, on health care, especially on child and youth psychiatry, on kindergartens, on schools and on culture, we've come a long way. If, in addition, we could get a rise in criminal care, including treatment and rehabilitation measures, we would probably not need this interpellation. The point is: the criminal policy debate is in crisis and has been so for years. How is it possible that for so long we have known who it is as ports on the galley in Norway, without being able to meet it so that we can prevent others with the same characteristics from being in the same situation? How is it possible that, with open eyes, we create a society where social differences are increasing, where schools such as Hersleb are taking positive measures to include disadvantaged youth, where ‘Alternative to Violence’ must use precious resources to laugh at money to survive another year, where child and youth psychiatry — among others. in my own country – do you have to tell kids that they have to wait up to one year to get help with what they're struggling with? In short, how is it possible that we are saying that the only way to show the power of action in justice policy is to go in for the most severe punishments, the highest number of prisons and the most policemen possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1622	It is not difficult to agree with what has been said about prevention, because prevention is incredibly important. It is necessary that we, as politicians, have our eyes and our attention focused precisely on what can help prevent people from getting into the situation of both being investigated and judged and having to zone. But there is another debate, today it is about what goes on in reconciliation and reconciliation queues. I had almost said, ‘Whether I’m hammering or hammering, it’s going to be jammed’ – as it’s called in a good quote. We had a period when it was startled in opinion and among us politicians that we are doing too little to get hold of the people who commit criminal acts. Then we strengthened the police and made sure they got tools that could help you investigate and solve more issues. And then, in that situation, because the police are getting more effective, we're not going to be able to follow up on the prison side. Obviously, someone should have seen it, maybe we politicians should have seen it, maybe we've got the necessary signals. I don't think it's so awfully important to figure out who's to blame here, what's the reason that we per. Today, the number of settlements is not needed to repair the queue we have. What is important is that we find schemes that can remedy the situation and that can prevent us from getting such conditions in the future. That's why the signals given in the hall today are important, because here we want to work together to get it done. I hear both the signals of the Advance Party and the Workers' Party about this, and I know that the government parties are also prepared to do so. When I was a boy, I lived in a place where there were a lot of whale-catchers, and what was a problem there sometimes, it was when the mothers cried out, especially to the boys who had done something wrong, that just wait till Dad comes home to spring, and you'll probably get Christmas. I don't know how much effect it had – getting Christmas to spring, far ahead of time, something preventative at least it wasn't in it. That's right, what has been said, it has to be a quick response after the relationship has been resolved, revealed and condemned. I imagine that together we have to try to get at a pressure that makes the criminal justice system get the priority it needs in the budgets that lie ahead of us. Together we have to join in and press.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1629	It's an important social issue that's raised in this interpellation. The centre part will allow the interpellanant to maintain that there is an unsustainable situation in relation to the growing nesting queues. Punishment, as we know, has several aims: the judge shall deal with society separately. The punishment should be so strict as to prevent repetition, while others are being intimidated by similar offences. Regardless of punishment, the court must be able to return to a normal life after atonement. As has been pointed out in today's debate, we must have more thoughts in our minds at the same time if we are to be closed in the fight against increasing crime, which also leads to an increase in the queue for reconciliation. The seat of police and officers must have sufficient resources to give priority to both the perpetrator and the preventive work. Cooperation must be strengthened between police and relief services, parents, schools, organisations and other agencies, in particular the protection of children. When such a rightful judgment prevails, it is against people's justice that society does not sympathize with the fact that the judges are allowed to settle themselves. As a result, the capacity of this part of the criminal justice system needs to be increased. However, the possibility of punishing open institutions and labour camps also needs to be increased, and in particular as part of facilitating the transition from prison to a life of freedom, which is a goal. One must also provide adequate provision for rehabilitation and aftercare during the time of atonement, so that individuals can be brought back to society after another asylum. And more differentiated forms of reconciliation, which the Minister of Justice had in mind in his speech, will make it easier to make a custom offer. Through the media, we are made aware of the fact that groups of criminals who are too sick to enter into ordinary settlements and too healthy to be offered treatment fall between several chairs. These people, who constitute a treason against the security of many communities with repeated criminal acts, have been in a grey zone of politics. It is important to find measures that can also embrace this group, which pose a threat in their neighbourhood, and which have fallen outside both the provision of housing and treatment. The central party wants the fight against crime to be a high priority. If we are to be closed in that struggle, it must stifle human and economic resources. We are looking forward to the Minister of Justice coming back to the United Kingdom with concrete proposals specifically related to youth action, and to a broad debate on what is a very important challenge for our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1644	The main objective of criminal justice, point 1, is to: «Implement the responses determined by the prosecution authority or decided by the court as soon as they are enforceable -implement criminal reactions upon receipt and at the latest within two months, where that is not the case». With today's situation, it is clear to everyone who wants to see, that the Minister of Justice of the Bondevik government Dørum is unable to achieve these objectives. He says he will, he might also try, as he says here, but he doesn't get it. I have heard him apologize for saying that there were longer cows of atonement nine years ago. And that's true, but he's leaping over that in the meantime it's also been a year when there was no reconciliation queue. I then feel that the Minister of Justice is telling half the truth and not the whole and the full truth. In the pulpit here today, he went through this with the statistics, which may have been a bit difficult to deal with in the years that have gone by. Point 2 of the main objective states: ‘Encourage the situation to enable the offender to make his own efforts to combat a criminal behaviour.’ In a rowing queue outside the walls, exposed to new opportunities and temptations, the criminal hardly gets any changes. You've got to get in fast. There has to be physical space, enough trained prison staff to be contract officers who can help the prisoner in the process of changing behaviour, and opportunities to participate in programmes that can contribute to the change in behaviour needed to make the criminal different when he comes out than when he came in. We now expect active and concrete action from the Minister of Justice. Several prison sites can be provided quickly, for example, on which he sailed, in Kongswinger and possibly also in Bergen, perhaps elsewhere. The revised national budget is only a few days ahead. There we will see if the Minister of Justice has obtained a majority so that we have an action plan ahead of us, whether he is a man of action who fulfils his responsibilities – or whether there will only be words without content. In the revised national budget, it must provide money, both for operations and for new locations. Now we've also heard that the Progress Party has said it shouldn't be on them when it comes to getting a majority for it. So far it has been the Progress Party the Government has turned to, so then we hope that the Government will bring more money to new places and increased capacity, so that we can avoid a reconciliation queue next year – perhaps.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1665	I've said that before, and I like to repeat it: I'm very excited that we have a Justice Department that so much actually agrees on the lines as you looked out the course before Christmas, and in that way I can stand behind large parts of the post that the Justice Committee's head, Trond Helleland, held. At least there is no doubt that this debate is putting a considerable political pressure on political premiscuouss in the future in relation to the issue of pay queues. Nor is there any doubt that all of us sitting in this room see the whole thing in this. When I allowed myself to draw up the idea of Kongsvinger municipality in relation to Vardåsen camp, where one believes one can open up prison, but also points out that in addition to providing training for prison officers and increasing the skills needed by the criminal services, it is precisely to think in full – we cannot build prisons without officers – I think it is too easy to polish around such a suggestion from Kongsvinger municipality. It's actually a good idea. When the Minister of Justice and others have raised the issue of prevention, there is no doubt that the increased focus on building more prisons must not deprive us of the debate and to the extent that the focus on prevention is on it. There I would like to point out in particular what has been happening in the United Kingdom on several occasions in recent times, the relationship between the use of alcohol by ordinary people and the situation of violence in larger and smaller agglomerations, and also that relating to childhood and juvenile delinquency, which is a particularly important area. In the end, we might all see that this is going to be about economics and financial resources. And unlike the representative Ellingen from the Progress Party, I believe that we in the Justice Committee do not actually need so many more creative ideas on the table, as was said. Some actually put money on the table under the last state budget in connection with the Labour Party proposal. And basically that's what it's going to fall on, that's the question of whether the Progress Party and the government parties will actually help to support us in relation to the developments we're seeing. In this way, I am pleased with today's debate, feeling that at least it has given a signal from a majority, a kind of political concession, and a clear march earth to the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice that now you demand that you put yourself in the harness and present good and constructive proposals. If you don't, I guess we'll all be at risk for the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1678	First of all, a general reflection: I have said in the past that it is in budgetary terms that economic questions are answered. It is also common in Stortinget that the revised national budget has less weight than a regular budget. But of course, what's happening there is also important. With regard to the comments that have come, it was not my intention to polish around Vardåsen. But I realized that the Judicial Committee has been crystal clear that you want places to pay, and not something that subtracts from it. So any experiment that reduces the practical possibilities we have doesn't increase the reconciliation capacity. In my opinion, if you want to increase settlement capacity, whether in closed or open spaces, you should also focus on it. If you're going to solve all the good suggestions you can think of having, in one place at the same time, it goes beyond something. And in that sense, I have seen the marshalling earth from an overall committee, that you want to increase the atoning capacity in both closed and open spaces. I see that as crystal clear. Then, as the representative of Ellingsen took up, I have also understood that we are going to make tenders in the police's business. It has been entrusted to the Police Directorate, and of course it will be followed up by me, both in terms of the transport of prisoners and possibly also in the transport of asylum seekers out of the country. We have also been asked to assess whether private individuals can build prisons that criminal services can operate. This is part of the plans that I am working on, and that I will come back to at the appropriate time. Several of the speakers have repeatedly said that we need to be more concerned with more than prison. Yes, but then we are concerned about something as practical – which does not cost money – as administrative cooperation. That means that there's close cooperation between the criminal services involved, the social services involved, what Aetat is doing, and what the school is doing. And then we can sum up the following: the school is heavy inside the prison – and it's very positive – the social offices are there sometimes, and the Aetat rarely. So this administrative cooperation, which is about making contact between the businesses we have in society, so that a person who's in jail should not come back as a repeater, is also a way to try to make the reconciliation queue smaller. I guess we're in complete agreement on this, and at least the relationship that I'm putting a lot of pressure on to do something with. Then you've marked very hard that you don't want young people to get in the situation that they're going to zone, and we agree on that. That's why the government comes up with a plan on how to prevent childhood and juvenile delinquency. I don't think anyone has any primitive solutions to what we're facing. I think everyone here in the hall agrees on one essential thing: if you do something wrong, you should have a reaction. If you're young, you're going to have a reaction that's not going to be a punishment, but that's going to set a reasonable limit, so it's upsetting. If you are above the criminal lavalier, you must have a reaction that is in proportion to what you have done, and you must have it quickly. We're going to have both social punishment and enough compensation capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1693	That being the case, it is no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1699	The size goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no wetting basis is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1708	During the debate, 24 proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Giske on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2–15, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, 16–24, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 16, 17, 18, 22 and 24, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Telecommunication and Broadcasting Act with a view to the clean-up of responsibilities in order to keep content and distribution separate.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the Competition Act and other laws regulating the media area maintain and maintain the development of the Stortinget at all times.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the final report of the Digital Rights Advisory Group be finalised and presented to the public as soon as possible as an important element in the further treatment of the choice of digital broadcasting platform.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an action plan on how children and young people can learn to become more aware and critical of what they are exposed to, and what strategic instruments are being used to achieve commercial goals.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to give the Council of Public Drinking Spirits the necessary powers to intervene in those companies that do not comply with their programming obligations under the public broadcasting mission.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1758	The proposals are then put to the vote. 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to postpone the decision on the development of the digital ground network until the hearing opinions on the concession rules on the development of the digital ground network have been processed and submitted as a separate case to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to provide a notification of its choice and justification for the chosen technological platform, which is either digital ground or broadband. The same notification must provide an overview of the costs and timing of the implementation of the solution chosen for the whole country.’» The Progress Party has announced its support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1782	The proposals are then put to the vote. 21 and 23, from the Socialist Left Party. Here the Central Party has announced their support for the proposals. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find out how the law aimed at preventing advertising aimed at children and young people in Norway can be implemented and apply to cable, broadband, satellite facilities and digital ground network.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume that at national level the ownership limit set at 1/3 is maintained. This is in order to ensure media pluralism and effective competition in the Norwegian media market, regardless of Norwegian or foreign ownership.’ The Central Party has announced their support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1806	President! There are several of us who voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1813	Yes, sir. Since there are many people who voted wrong, we're going to have to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1825	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2–15, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the submission of the 2003 draft budget, to provide for the closure of the press support over a period of two years’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case in which it assesses the possibility of non-discrimination between the daily press, the weekly press and other media by providing a zero rate of VAT.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the Open Channel project shall not have public subsidies or special arrangements.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the radiobingo premium ceiling in order to increase the revenue base of local radios.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for the liquidation of all laws, regulations and administrative provisions limiting the design, transmission and advertising of media. Advertising in the media shall be limited only by that resulting from the criminal law.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a plan for the termination of the NRK licence. This is done by tightening and streamlining the activities of the NRK, while allowing the NRK to obtain more revenue from commercial sources.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to scrape the expansion of a nationwide digital network [[DTT]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take into account that, for reasons of freedom of expression under the first sentence of Section 100 of the Constitution ‘Freedom of the press should be located’ and the right to manage its own acquisition, editorial independence is rejected in the media, as it is protected by other channels such as professional organisations and laws relating to freedom of expression and freedom of the press and printing.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for action to be taken by the Government to develop an independent regulatory authority in relation to the Broadcasting Act and the regulation of media in general. This is in order to ensure the independence of the media, the neutral application of regulatory measures and an unhindered regulatory authority. The Broadcasting Act should therefore be converged against a uniform legal framework for the media market and the ICT industry.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer to the merger of the Post and Telecommunications Authority and the State Media Administration as soon as possible in order to meet effectively the tasks that lie within their competence in the near future.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of 2002, at the latest, to bring the matter before it that the Ownership Authority and the Competition Authority are merged into one supervisory body in order to apply effectively and rationally the Competition Act and the Media Ownership Act in relation to the purpose of ensuring effective competition, media pluralism and freedom of expression in the media market.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government, in presenting the 2003 draft budget, asks the Government to wind up all specific support for minority foreign-language publications and broadcasting.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop, as soon as possible, measures to ensure the anonymity of the accused and witnesses in the media until they are available, regardless of the defendant’s own desire to expose himself or not in the press and the media. This is in order to ensure unhindered jury management and security of privacy and legal certainty for individuals. Derogations must apply to persons searched for by the police who are considered dangerous to their environment.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an assessment of the existence of a neutral and independent system of supervision for the ethics and conduct of the press and media in relation to the privacy and legal certainty of the individual. Alternatively, it is possible to extend the mandate of the Data Protection Authority in this field.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1909	Then there is to be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A general programming poster with the overall requirements for the NRK’s activities is developed. The Government is asked to prepare this and to present it to the Storting during 2002.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1938	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 18 April 2002: «The Government is asked to draw up an approval system and quality requirements irrespective of the treatment of the future of the county and the location of the child protection system.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1956	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Trond Giske, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 18 April 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a change in Section 55a of the Working Environment Act so that it has reference to Section 8a of the Gender Equality Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1971	We're going to vote on case no. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1974	President! We ask that there be a vote on the motion for a resolution on file No. 6 first, because if it falls, we will support the proposal in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1981	The President understands that you want to vote in case no. 6 before case No. 5, because this has to do with subsidiary voting. That's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e1990	There is a vote on the proposal by May Hansen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 18 April 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Equality Act and other legislation governing the composition of the board of directors of companies, so that the equal representation rules of the Equality Act also apply to directors of limited liability companies. Public limited liability companies, listed companies and companies with more than 30 employees shall have at least 40 pst. by each sex in its directors.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e2008	The vote will take place at the Odelstinget meeting on 18 April 2002 following a proposal from Mr Trond Giste. The Socialist Left Party has now announced its subsidiary support. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals to amend the Equality Act and the Share Act to ensure at least 40 pst. of both sexes in the boards of all public limited-liability companies and public limited-liability companies, as well as publicly owned special-law companies. In addition, the law shall apply where the State appoints members to govern foundations. The rules shall apply to privately owned public limited-liability companies, but not privately owned limited-liability companies. The new legal provision is introduced as soon as possible, with the date of entry into force which gives companies time to implement the change. No derogation shall be granted after entry into force.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-25.ana.ud2001e2025	In Case No. 7 there is no wetting basis.
