ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e65	Representatives Julie Christiansen and Hill-Marta Solberg, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: from the delegation of the Grand Duchy to the 2002 session of the Council of Europe, Part 2, in Strasbourg, signed by the chairperson of the delegation, Mr Blankenborg, on behalf of 23 April, for Mr Øystein Djupedal, from 23 April to 25 April, for the representatives of Mr Olav Akssen, Mr Martin Engeset, Mr Bent Höie, Mr André Kåkkestad, Mr Per Erik Monsen, Mr Elsa Skarbøvik and Mr Haakon Blankenborg, and, on 24 and 25 April, for the representatives of Mr Synnøve Konglevoll and Mr Jorunn Ringstad from the representatives of Mr Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Mr Carsten Dybevig on leave from 23 April to 25 April, for participation in the International Drug Control Summit 2002 in Tokyo These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Troms County, Knut Werner Hansen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Synnøve Konglevoll's leave on 24 and 25 April, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Hordaland County: Rita Tveiten For Uppland County: Reidun Gravdahl For Rogaland County: Inger Lise AarrestadFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Life Signe Navarsete For Troms County: Arne BerglandFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Jon Olav Alstad For South-Trøndelag County: Jørund LeknesFor Westfold County: Inger Møll and Vidar Andersen For Eastfold County: Gretha Kant and Peter Kuran3. Inger Møll is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e175	Harald Espelund, Rita Tveiten, Reidun Gravdahl, Inger Lise Aarrestad, Jon Olav Alstad, Jørund Leknes, Inger Møll, Vidar Andersen, Gretha Kant and Peter Kuran are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e180	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e185	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e190	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available and the Kjell Engebretsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings. The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e195	On behalf of Marit Arnstad and myself, I would like to propose that Stortinget submit its own case on broadband policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e200	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e214	The background of Document No. 8:64 for 2001-2002 the 2002 budget agreed to increase the weight limit for a combined truck from 5000 kg to 6000 kg. Due to capacity problems at traffic stations, some combined cars could not be registered before 1 January 2002. These were cars that were ordered before the proposal to change the weight limit became public. Consequently, a derogation was granted from the duty on cars imported into Norway and tolled before 1 January 2002 so that they could be registered and processed in accordance with the old legislation, no single fee, even after 1 January 2002. The exemption was made subject to registration before 1 March 2002. The proposers in Document No. 8:64 proposes to extend the exemption both for the time of introduction and for the time of registration of the cars. The condition of the time of entry has been proposed to be changed so that an exemption is granted regardless of when the vehicle was introduced to the country, as long as the car has been ordered before 1 January 2002. The majority of the Committee, all the non-participating members of the Progress Party, emphasises that exemption from the charging obligation was linked to the fact that the capacity problems at the traffic stations led to cars introduced before the tax change being applied were not intended to be registered and thus managed under the old charging system. These were cars that would be registered in time in a normal situation. For cars introduced after 1 January 2002, there was another situation. These cars would also not normally have decreased to be registered and processed according to the charging system that applied before 1 January. A derogation also for these cars would therefore lead to a breach of the Stortinget’s decision that the weight limit in the one-off charge for combined cars would be raised from 5000 to 6000 kg with effect from 1 January 2002. An opening to adequately pollinate cars before a change in charges is introduced will justify a high level of charging and will also have budgetary implications. The proposers refer to a text on the Home page of the Ministry of Finance. However, the information on the website was not published until 1 January 2002, so this information may not have motivated the ordering of cars before the end of the year. The proposers propose that the time of registration condition be changed to extend the period of derogation from 1 March to 1 July 2002. The majority would point out that the derogation was not made more than strictly necessary, given that an additional extension would be contrary to the Stortinget’s decision to impose an increased weight limit and to endure this unnecessarily. It will be in Document No. 8:64 also propose that the Government in the revised national budget for 2002 provide an assessment of the environmental and cost impacts for industry and for state and municipal authorities by increasing the weight limit from 5000 to 6000 kg for combined trucks. The majority would point out that the Stortinget has already asked the Government to evaluate and allocate the charging system for passenger cars, with proposals for conversion to adapt new technologies, so that optimum environmental and security improvements can be achieved, and that a new distribution will now lead to a risk of duplication compared to those already in progress. On this basis, the majority would recommend that the proposals in Document No. 8:64 is not adopted. I would like to recommend the Committee's position on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e249	When the Progress Party took part in the deployment of the new government, it was in the light that we wanted a new government, where taxes and charges would be greatly reduced and business would be secured with stable and predictable framework conditions. In the election campaign, I traveled the country and the beach in debates there, among other things. The right and left took part, and there was no way in which these parties would take care of the small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. Most enterprises in this country are somehow completely dependent on transport, either transporting products to the market or, for the many small enterprises in that country, transporting labour and equipment to the workplace. I am not going to touch the first part so much, but just stating that the transport costs for business in this country, after calculations by NHO, are about. 50 pst. over the costs of similar enterprises in the EU territory. The background to these calculations lies in the sky-high level of car charges and car use, and, of course, for truck industries, diesel taxes are particularly severe. But not enough with that. By contrast, Norway has a world record of spending as little money as possible on road and road maintenance. It means many accidents with the costs involved, both human and direct costs for business, closed roads due to car storage and closed road crossings in winter, with a background of lack of road maintenance. In order to enable businesses to compete with production establishments close to the European market, transport costs in Norway should be 50 pst. lower than in the EU. But as the President is sure to be aware, this government and former governments agree that we should be at the top of the world in terms of taxes and at the bottom in terms of the use of money on the road. The second aspect affecting business is the lack of predictability. It's this thing a star example of. A few years ago, the bulk of the population decided that the so-called combined car would have a huge increase in fees, which affected the business community. In the 2001 state budget, the majority of Stortinget found out that a box with special objectives would be included in the vans, which led to several types of vans rising almost 100 pst. in price. In the autumn, the economic government, based on the Right, proposed that the weight limit for trucks should be increased – including this type of car used by small businesses in this country. This car type rose overnight from approx. 450 000 kroner to well over 1 million. kr. This is industry-friendly in practice. I react very strongly to one of the reasons why I reject an assessment of the environmental and cost implications for business, as written by the majority in the Committee: ‘The majority will point out that the Stortinget has already asked the Government to evaluate and assess the charging system for passenger cars with proposals for conversion adapted to new technologies to achieve optimum environmental and safety improvements and that a new investigation will now lead to a risk of overlap compared to the investigations already in progress.’ It is worrying that the majority of the committee clearly does not know the difference between a passenger car and a lorry. Both environmental and not least safety differences exist in these two types of cars. I actually thought it was a strength for business, and perhaps not least for road users, that both types of cars were investigated. Not least, it will be a strength when the Storting will deal with such matters in the future. It is only to be noted that the majority of the Committee considers passenger cars and lorries to have the same impact on the environment and on road safety. I disagree with them. It is regrettable that the so-called business-friendly parties at Stortinget now want to force business to either buy an unnecessary heavier car to drop charges, or to buy more cars. It may be the new environmental profile of the Left – what do I know? In my opinion, the proposal to raise the limit for combined trucks from 5000 kg to 6000 kg as agreed by Stortinget is not sufficiently well established. It also shows letters from Iveco Norge A/S to the Auto Importers Landsforening dated 11 January 2002, which included: it reads as follows: ‘As a truck importer, our main target group consists of state and local authorities, in particular the Road Administration, power companies and contractors such as Road Cover and Selmer. These are customers who buy only pure commercial vehicles for industrial use. A typical combined car for us is a truck chassis with a double cab registered for 7 seats. [[Hunting]] This type of car is usually fitted with a crane, plan, cabinet and hoists and the like. In addition, they purchase and installed vans with 12 or 15 cubic metres of goods for use as service cars with 6 seats for work layers. This type of combined car gives the customer the advantage, that he does not have to drive his own truck with goods/goods and at the same time has to have a separate car for the transport of the rest of the work force. The environmental benefit is thus evident.» This shows that Storting's decisions hit typical work cars, which I don't think was the purpose of the decision. The decision results in that part of the business using such cars either having to invest in an additional follow-up car or buying a combined truck that is larger than the company needs. In addition to this, of course, increasing the costs for businesses, it has an environmental dimension. In these cases, users are faced with two alternatives, either driving two cars, a clean truck and an accompanying car to carry the workers, or investing in a larger combined truck than the company needs. It is quite clear that both solutions lead to more environmental emissions and increased costs. This is also stated in the above letter: «A large part of our model program on this type of car has been made unsaleable due to. the high charges. An increase of 6 tonnes leads to a further reduction and customers are ‘forced’ over to a gross 6,3 tonnes car, which many customers will find too large and inappropriate. This is a type of car that is definitely not suitable for private use. We therefore find it totally unreasonable that these types of cars are subject to a tax in the order of approx. NOK 170 000 – a tax that is largely motivated by the fact that users also use the cars privately.” This shows that the increase in the weight limit for combined lorries is both environmental and cost-effective. Whether this is a goal for the two environmental and business-friendly parties, right and left, I don't know, but it's a reality anyway. On this basis, I address the proposals I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e288	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e305	First I have to correct a sorry error in the setting. The first section of the Committee's observations shall state that the Centre Party is represented by Morten Lund, not by Karin Galaaen. Then to the proposal. Representatives Per Sandberg, Siv Jensen and Gjermund Hagesetter have submitted a proposal asking the Government to implement measures to ensure free competition in the market for municipal occupational pension schemes. A similar proposal was considered two years ago, in which the majority asked the then government to have an assessment of the competitive situation. It wasn't done. Now, as at that time, the majority, consisting of the cooperation parties and the Progress Party, agree with the proposers that ‘it is important to ensure the functioning of competition in the market for municipal pension schemes’ and that unnecessary obstacles are not placed in the way. The majority then go through the different conditions that may affect competition. One relates to the transfer agreement between municipal and state pensions. This has a public sample looking at and setting up. This position is now at the political level of the Ministry of Labour and Administration. Other issues relate to transfer and cross-subsidisation, or as some say: balancing of risks. Although the Credit Authority claims that competition in this market can be said to exist at this stage, the majority considers that cross-subsidisation premium calculation systems have elements that may be obfuscating and are initially incompatible with the principles underlying a well-functioning market. The majority emphasises that there should be an emphasis on effective competition in municipal pension insurance and that KLP no longer benefits in respect of such contracts. The majority agree with the Minister of Finance's proposal to transmit the issue of premium calculation and transfer from KLP to the Banking Law Commission for a detailed assessment and for the preparation of proposals for any action. I note that the minority cannot agree that it is important to ensure that competition operates in the market for municipal pension schemes. From the last time the Stortinget dealt with this, the Centre party has been added to the Workers' Party and SV in the minority. You're allowed to change your position. Despite the fact that the minority on the one hand does not consider it important to increase competition in this market, on the other hand, they say that competition can be increased by several companies using the same pension calculation method as CLP. Maybe the majority is right that someone, in this context, says the Banking Law Commission, should look at this. – The majority have suggested it, and it is allowed for the minority to hang on!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e334	The proposal in Document No. 8:76 from the Progress Party is to ensure that there is free competition in the market for municipal service pensions. When the Labour Party opposes this proposal, it is not because we are against competition, but because competition in this matter stands up against another important consideration, namely the right to enter into agreements in order to improve pay and working conditions. The right to enter into collective bargaining agreements is based on the understanding that there is a fundamental difference between the labour market and the market for goods, services and capital. This makes it necessary to establish a balance between the employer and the individual employee. Most industrialised countries therefore have labour law rules that empower trade unions to enter into collective agreements with employers or employers’ organisations. Such agreements will necessarily restrict competition in the labour market. In most countries, therefore, collective agreements are protected by the competition rules. This also applies to the Norwegian Competition Act. However, the exemption from competition regulation is not entirely unlimited. Where the border is currently in progress, the EFTA Court has ruled, which has given an advisory hearing in connection with proceedings between LO and KS and a number of municipalities. This case deals with other matters. on the following questions: «A collective agreement whereby a collective occupational pension scheme is based on a gender-neutral financing system and which can only be met by a supplier compatible with Article 53 of the EEA Agreement.» Article 53 of the EEA Agreement is one of the competition rules of the EEA Agreement. The EFTA Court also ruled: the following assessment of the question: the Court of Justice has recognised that there are certain inherent restrictions on competition linked to the collective bargaining agreement. The social policy objective of such agreements will be seriously weakened if the agreements are subject to competition law. The results of the Court of Justice are therefore based on a balance between the scope of effective functioning of markets and the implementation of social policy objectives, including: high employment and social security. The EFTA Court also finds that the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs, inter alia: gender-neutral contributions appear to be capable of improving pay and working conditions and therefore fall outside the competition rules. The Court further held that it is not decisive whether the effect of the main tariff agreement is that only one or a few potential insurance companies will in practice be qualified as insurance suppliers. The EFTA judgment states that, as long as the agreement falls outside the competition rules of the EEA Agreement, the restrictions on competition resulting from it must be accepted. The case is further dealt with in the Labour Court, which will take a position on whether moving the service pension from KLP to other insurance companies is non-tariff by 11 municipalities. Of course, there is a question we should not consider at Stortinget. What we have to decide is Norwegian competition and insurance policy. In the evaluation of this legislation, it is important for the Workers' Party that employees have the possibility to secure their pay and working conditions, and within this comes service pension, by concluding collective agreements with employers. These agreements are very important to many people. They relate to the living conditions of the individual, but also to the individual’s dignity by not being totally dependent on a single employer. We do not want to perpetuate this freedom by allowing free competition to be overarched by the goal of ever-new areas. The Labour Party believes that in this area we do not need to have stricter competition rules than what we are obliged to do under the EEA Agreement. I would like to stress again that the Labour Party is not against competition for municipal service pensions or would like to protect KLP from competition. But we equally believe that employees should be able to choose a service pension scheme with an average premium that is independent of age and gender. Therefore, we believe that if competition in the local service pension market is to increase, it should be done by using more companies' average premium rather than by limiting the potential of KLP today. That is why we thought it right to reject this proposal at this point in time. We have discussed before the freedom to enter into collective agreements is important, and that is what we are still doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e354	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative of Frøiland now took up the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e357	I'll do it now, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e362	The representative of Frøiland has thus taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e365	The party of progress is a fan of competition. We believe that competition between several operators operating in a market with a level playing field and a level playing field is positive. Such competition will provide an incentive to keep costs down and to maintain the best possible quality of the products or services provided. In the market for municipal service pension schemes, it is per year. Today, there are no equal conditions for the different actors. This is mainly because KLP has received exemptions from the insurance business law and provides for the transfer of insurance in the main tariff agreement. Where there are different conditions of competition within this market, there can be no free competition either. This is also the background for Document No. the 8th proposal, which takes the floor to ensure free competition within community service pension schemes based on a level playing field. Of course, we are very pleased that a majority of the representatives in this Chamber agree that it is important to ensure that competition works in this market and that unnecessary obstacles are not placed in the way. We therefore have no problem joining the case spokesperson, Heidi Larssen, in this matter. However, the fact that we still have a relatively large minority who are not occupied by free competition on equal terms in this case is difficult to take seriously. What Ranveig Frøiland's representative had in mind here is that the other companies should instead base an average calculation in order to ensure better competition, it's hard to agree, because if you have an average calculation of insurance payments, this would be very difficult to calculate and difficult to compare. The Progress Party therefore hopes, in the light of the multi-annual comments and the decision that the Government takes this matter seriously and prioritises it, so that we can continue to ensure free competition even within this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e379	In 1993 when the Finance Committee passed competition law, it was widely agreed that wage and working conditions should be exempt from the law. This is true in most modern societies. The only party that opposed this was the Progress Party, which said, «... the country-wide agreements concluded during wage negotiations have a very significant impact both on the competitiveness of industry and on the level of prices.» The party of progress therefore considered that the new competition law must result in the labour market’s monopolistic organisations being framed in the same way as others who enter into agreements and prevent competition. Does the Progress Party still believe that wage and working conditions are subject to competition law? Wishes the progress of this Document no. The 8 proposal to limit the freedom of the social partners to make agreements on pay and working conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e389	I can't see that this question that Ranveig Frøiland is asking here has something to do directly with this matter. What we are dealing with is whether to have free competition in the market for municipal pension schemes. We still believe that competition is positive, that we need to have a level playing field so that we can have the best possible and free competition. That's what we're now debating. Here we are behind the plural, and we had hoped that the Labour Party too would have realized that free competition is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e394	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e398	When we were going to review this proposal in SV, we asked ourselves the following questions: is competition in the municipal service pension market poor? The answer for us was no. What we're recording is that there's a certain inconsistency about what pension rights you're going to compete for. The pension scheme is more expensive for women than for men, and if the premium is equal, women can expect poorer pension payments than men. So the exception is e.g. pension insurance in KLP, where the contribution is equalised. The proposers argue that the transfer of insurance in the main tariff agreement is anticompetitive and that this favours KLP. It is point 2.1.8 of the main tariff agreement that applies when a company or pension fund is to be changed, and the second paragraph states that a pension scheme is to be based on a funding system that is gender-neutral and does not appear to be harmful to older workers. This is a very important principle from SV's point of view. When it applies to the degree of competition or not in this market, we would like to refer to the Credit Authority's announcement to the Ministry of Finance on 12 March this year. Here, the Credit Authority states that they have the impression that competition in public pension schemes is ‘very satisfactory’. And the plurality, write that the Credit Authority's figures show that it can be said to be competition in the current market – that is, a different value than what we consider to be "very satisfactory". As the representative of Frøiland was involved, since 1999, there has been a case in the labour law concerning the transfer of municipal service pension schemes from KLP to other life insurance companies. As Frøiland was also concerned, which is the basis of labour law, the EFTA Court has recently given a ruling. It is thus established that the decision on tariffs, which aims to improve pay and add-on conditions, including pension decisions, falls outside the EU competition rules. The EFTA Court further states that the disputed rules of the General Agreement on Tariffs, such as gender-neutral premiums, appear to be well-suited to improve pay and working conditions. We're a few of them. These rules are important and decisive for the living conditions of many people in this country who depend on the fact that the social partners can just conclude agreements on pay and working conditions. We in Stortinget should not stand in the way of that. Many of those covered by these agreements are women added to municipalities. They're doing a very important job. I'd like to know that the Progress Party was busy by them and not just by the competition. It's a matter of these ladies retaining their pension rights. The party on which the progress is based simply does not want free competition is for private life companies to adapt to the KLP system with gender neutrality, but for KLP to no longer be exempted from the policy conditions. The representative, Mr. Hagesett, is talking about a level playing field and a level playing field. But is he just as busy that one should be able to offer a similar product that is gender neutral and without divergence when it comes to age? Is it a business of those who receive the pension, and not only those who sell and make money on the pension? I should have received an answer to that. The focus is completely crazy when the tariff fixing of gender and age-neutral premiums is made into the problem itself and a barrier to competition. SV means that we have a system that works perfectly well. It smooths the premium between women and men, between young and old. And, as I've been told, according to the Competition Authority, competition in public pension schemes is "very satisfactory". SV is therefore included in the minority, which rejects the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e420	Regardless of the number of times SV says that competition in this market is ‘workable very satisfactorily’ and ‘excellently’, it is not satisfactory when the operators are not satisfied and there are different conditions of competition in this market. In this case, SV has the right to have an average premium, so all the other insurance companies have to go in for an average premium and don't have to do detailed calculations, like now. So instead of KLP going to the other companies' terms and conditions, the other companies have to change to KLP's terms and conditions. What's the problem with an average premium is that it's going to be very hard to compare. A person does not have a good competition when he cannot compare what the different actors offer. I would therefore like to ask the following questions to SV: Does not the Socialist Left Party see that it becomes more difficult to compare when you have an average premium than if you have detailed calculations for each policyholder?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e429	No, SV joins in the view of the Credit Authority. The credit supervision writes – and they have checked this – that competition in the market “works very well”. For us in SV, this is a very good starting point for the comment we have written, and I have no reason to go into it any further. Of course, market players are dissatisfied with competition. But that's because they're not some of the conditions that we've seen for that competition, that's the terms of the main tariff agreement. If market players find it necessary, they can compete on a level playing field with KLP and offer the product we want them to offer. The point is that they don't want it, because it'll cost them more. But such a scheme is therefore the best scheme for female workers in the municipality and state and for older workers. For us in SV, it is very important that these women who do the job they do retain the rights and are not discriminated against in the pension issue, as they become in the pay question in the labour market otherwise. We need older workers in this country. Schemes that stimulate, that they get an incentive to continue, we in SV are very happy to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e436	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e439	For the Christian People's Party, this matter is a follow-up of the Inst. S. No 173 for 1999-2000, where a multiple, all except the Workers' Party and SV, stated that it was desirable to remove obstacles to competition when adding the municipal insurance schemes. However, I would like to stress that this matter is not a matter of interfering with the main collective bargaining agreement between the social partners. Respect for collective bargaining agreements and the division of roles we have between different actors is unchanged from the decision that will be taken in this matter today. I would also like to stress that for the Christian People's Party, the most important thing is for the policyholders, or for the employees. The whole purpose of pension and insurance schemes is to ensure that they are added – in this respect municipal workers – good and safe conditions after the period of active employment. Both today and in the further follow-up of this theme, this will be the red thread in the Christian People's Party's thinking. As we in the Christian People's Party see it, there is no contradiction between what I have now listed and opening up to greater competition in this market – rather on the contrary. Increased competition can better add their real terms to them, i.e. their policyholders. The majority today do two things: Firstly, to state that it is important to ensure the functioning of competition in the market for municipal occupational pension schemes and that unnecessary obstacles must not be placed in the way of this: to agree with the Ministry that the problems associated with the removal regulation should be left to the Banking Commission for a closer assessment. Christian People's Party has no problem behind the settings that have been set up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e464	I can't help but realize that the Christian People's Party in this matter, as in so many other matters – after the Christian People's Party joined the new right-dominated government – must meet itself at the door. It is okay that one is busy with the principle of competition and, as the representative Sørfonn says, that it should take care of the interests of workers. The principle of competition is to the best of our ability. But we've had a few rounds, both in the finance committee and in this room, in connection with the law on corporate pension and the law on inbound pensions, and then there was another principle that the Christian People's Party was very busy with, that we had to get gender-neutral premiums. Yes, they have been so busy with this that they have actually said in their own program that the Christian People's Party will work to ensure that private service pensions become gender neutral in line with the public. Isn't it a paradox that the Christian People's Party will now take from the employee the possibility through the collective agreement to secure pension plans with such gender-neutral contributions? It would have to be much better, if you were very busy getting competition on this market, that a job was to make other companies also offer gender-neutral premium schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e473	As I said in the introduction to my article, this matter is a follow-up to what the Christian People's Party has said before, in Innst.S. No 173 for 1999-2000. Nor do I see that there is any contradiction between this and the strong commitment that the Christian People's Party has had at more times when one has had corporate pensions up to discussion, to get gender-neutral premiums. There is nothing in this that indicates that we want a right in that matter, and here and now it may be good to have the opportunity to reject such a misunderstanding, if it is to lie down. Our whole point is that we want to express, as I referred to earlier, that the unnecessary obstacles that might hinder free competition need to be removed, and that other questions relating to the removal regulation should be sent to the Banking Law Commission for a closer assessment. I also tried to underline in my article that when the main tariff agreement was broken, this case should not have consequences for it – of course not. So I'm a little bit surprised by the angles that the replicator has, but I hope that the misunderstandings that may be are cleared out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e484	I am very pleased with what Ingebrigig Sørfonn says when it comes to the main tariff agreement, but I do not think that he himself feels overconfident that he has cleared up these things, which he is now trying to do in relation to the matter that we have to deal with today. For it is not so good for the Christian People's Party – which is busy with the main tariff agreement, which is busy with average premiums and with women and the elderly getting their pension rights – to be turned into hard grain with the Progress Party, which does not want this. But what about the competitive situation that Ingebrigt Sørfonn knows, but that we do not know? In their letter to the Ministry of Finance of 12 March this year, they state very clearly that they do not see that the situation has changed since 1998 in the direction that the removal regulations are making competition more difficult. In fact, they say it works ‘very well’! And then I want to know: what is the representative of Sørfonn's basis for saying that it does not, when he says at the same time that he is busy with average premiums for insurance companies and that the rights of employees are the most important thing? And so competition works, it says the credit supervision quite clearly. I don't feel comfortable with the answer the representative gave to Torstein Rudihagen. I should like the Christian People's Party to dare say what they are saying in a way between the lines, that this proposal should be rejected. But then they're in a government constellation with the right, with the support of the Progress Party, and then they kind of listen to it on a new migration. I sincerely hope that at the end, when it comes back, there are some with the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party in it, because it's in line with their program.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e493	The representative Ranveig Frøiland asked what I knew she didn't know. I'm not sure there's so much. I have great respect for Ranveig Frøiland’s level of knowledge – she knows a lot, so I’m not sure if I can learn so much new. But when this is the case with competition, I think there are some who are far on the way that competition is not bad enough to offer a better deal, so that the choice that the parties can take on here is further if not differentiated, so at least they are trying to make a good offer at a low price. Here is a mechanism in which I believe the representative of Frøiland in the middle of the way agrees with me. It was also sad to hear that I had not managed to calm the representative Frøiland. I'll do my best, but I'm not sure it's going to be completely closed. But when it comes to the realities of what she spent a lot of time on, gender-neutral premiums, among other things, prayed. The Christian People's Party, the previous government – it was in the previous magnificence – to settle this issue in particular. This, as far as I know, is for treatment in the department, so I expect that we will get a case on this in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e501	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e504	The credit supervision has re-established the proper functioning of competition in the public pension scheme, even ‘very satisfactory’, according to a letter dated 12 March of this year. This should also satisfy the proposers, both those who are promoting the proposal this time, and those who have promoted it for a year. The rapporteurs and the majority in the Committee believe, to my knowledge, that we should have free and independent supervision, and that must mean that one should pay at least as much attention to what they say in their special areas, as the ministry should say. I think it is remarkable that the Progress Party and the government parties dispute the assessment of the credit supervision in this area. If it is not published correctly, it must be a great disappointment that KLP will still be able to maintain such a strong position in this market below. The centre party believes it is important that the offer made by KLP on average premiums, irrespective of sex and age, can be continued, and we also want such offers to be made by other providers. Claiming that free competition should lead to a disadvantage for women and the elderly when employed in the public sector should be seen as a breach of the Equality Act. In a situation where the market needs more labour and there are significant reserves among the elderly and women, the situation of those groups should not deteriorate. The central party believes that we should follow Denmark's example of establishing a law on gender-neutral pension schemes, and we are going to make proposals to do so. As far as I can see now, after reading from the Christian People's Party program, we will also receive the support of the Christian People's Party. The Equality Ombudsman wishes to provide gender-neutral insurance offers, and states to NOU 2001:27 in a separate annex that it is desirable for the employer to receive an offer that appears to be gender-neutral, even if it is taken into account in the underlying calculations for gender.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e513	The Government considers that it is essential to ensure the proper functioning of competition in the insurance market in order to enable one to obtain good insurance contracts at a fair price. This principle should also apply in the market for municipal pension schemes, nor should unnecessary obstacles be placed here to healthy and effective competition. I have stressed these points in my letter of 21 March to the Financial Committee. In Document No presented The 8 proposal points out that average premiums in some insurance companies involve cross-subsidies between different customers. The fact that KLP has access to such premium calculations in relation to the municipalities has historical reasons. In the light of the submitted document No: The 8-proposal I think it would be appropriate to look at the issue of premium calculation in and relocation from KLP. I have noticed that a majority of the members of the Committee agree that these issues should be forwarded to the Banking Commission for evaluation and for the preparation of proposals for the necessary measures. I have been asked to take the matter seriously, as was said by the representative of the Progress Party in the debate. Of course, the department does. With regard to the pace of the proceedings, it is now decided that the Committee has requested the Banking Law Commission to look at the matter. Any proposals from there would therefore have to be sent to interested parties at the hearing. The issues raised in relation to the market for municipal occupational pension schemes are very complex and affect a number of different parties. I believe that we ensure a secure handling of the matter when we withdraw the competence of the Banking Law Commission, and that all parties will be allowed to comment after that. The question of gender-neutral contributions in relation to private occupational pension schemes, the schemes adopted by the Storting itself, has raised the Storting on several occasions. The previous government, the government of Stoltenberg, appointed a selection to look at this, led by former Stoltenberg representative Mary Kvidal. The selection has submitted its configuration. The selection has unanimously opposed schemes involving so-called pooling schemes, i.e. funds for transfers between different policy holders for equal contribution payments irrespective of risk, but has gone into favour of another model, which reasonably ensures gender neutrality. I emphasize that this is a unanimous attitude. It requires quite extensive legal and regulatory treatment, but the Government aims to bring the case before the Storting at a time that allows treatment in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e522	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e525	It has been quoted earlier today from the letter from the Credit Authority that shows that competition works. Then I have a simple question for Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss. In his letter to the Committee, he refers to the letter from the Credit Authority, and he says: ‘I take note of the assessments of the credit supervision on a provisional basis.’;» Then my question is: doesn't Per-Christian Foss, when a messenger sends a case over to the Credit Authority, trust what they say, and which has been notified to the Committee? The Minister of Finance thus takes note of this ‘temporary...’. There is something I wonder about can happen, but I want to challenge the Minister of Finance to address this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e540	It is in the nature of the matter when I said in my post that we believe there is a need to do something in this area because the competition must function satisfactorily, that I do not fully share the opinion of the Banking Authority in the case. A little delay now, at least a tendency to do so, brings me to the point that the task of credit supervision is not primarily in the field of competition. Thus, the Competition Authority has not stated what is still quoted. When we also want to transmit this to the Banking Act Commission, it is because there is reason to stress what they had to think about the competition in this part of the insurance market, plus that I always pay attention to the supervision that belongs to my department. They are competent and competent, they are. But sometimes I think you should also hear a little about what the actors think. I record that in Kommune-Norway there is a desire for greater freedom in this area, and that is probably some of what is behind the ongoing legal proceedings as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e547	State Council Per-Kristian Foss was himself inside the Kvidal selection. My question to the Council of State is in relation to the follow-up to the Kvidal selection, which he did well for now lies in the department. Ingunn Yssen stated the following about what came out of the NOU of the Kvidal selection: ‘I thought the sample would find practical solutions to how we can ensure gender-neutral pension schemes, and not to determine whether we should have them.’ It seems to me then that one in the Kvidal selection has not found solutions to how a person should still be able to offer gender-neutral contributions. So my question to the Council of State is, Will he be busy with this now in his further work on these questions? And does he also send an order to the Banking Law Commission that one should be busy with the problems that the majority have encountered today? Even the Christian People's Party has emphasized the importance of gender-neutral and age-neutral systems, and that one should look further at it. Can we get the Council of State's assurance that it will be the subject, even if we in the minority didn't get multiples for our vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e559	You could also quote the Equality Ombudsman, who is in the Kvidal range, and who is part of the unanimous setting. I don't want to prejudge what the government will conclude with, but we want to assume that the setting, and the fact that it is a unanimous setting, gives it its own weight. What the Banking Law Commission may wish to investigate is freely up to the Commission — it has a reasonably free mandate. But its starting point will of course be perhaps a broader assessment of the entire insurance market, and not just what we are now discussing, municipal occupational pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e566	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e584	The Financial Committee has examined the proposal of the representatives Hedstrøm and Solholm, and it is a unanimous committee that has decided to simplify the examination of this Document No. the 8th proposal, with reference to the letter of the Presidency of 8 March 2002, referring to the last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 29 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: "If the Committee finds it doubtful that the proposal does not deserve the consent of the Grand Duchy, it should without further delay encourage the rejection of the proposal."; Therefore, no consultations were held on whether to abolish the import protection for potatoes. Nor has it been asked for the usual statement from the department. The whole Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, considers that this issue is not suitable for dealing as an individual matter. The majority indicate that the scope of customs protection of agricultural products, the products to be covered and the level of customs duties are the result of treatment here in Stortinget, among others. the agricultural notification, annual negotiations between the agricultural organisations and the country and negotiations with other countries within the framework of the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the proposal of the Party for the immediate abolition of the import protection for potatoes is dramatic. If implemented, Norwegian potato production would end quite quickly, possibly with the exception of a few areas with particularly good cultivation conditions and modest niche production. The Norwegian potato industry, which is quite large, would likewise disappear. The economy of a significant Norwegian production would be destroyed, and I doubt that the selling price to the consumer would be lower. According to the proposers, only 30 kg of food is used per. person per person years. The price for the farmer has been agreed on at NOK 2 per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, In the store, the price might be 5 per cent. So we're just going to pay $150 per kilogram. person in the year of the food potato – SEK 600 for a family of four. It's a little bit more than filling a gas tank. It is, in my opinion, a very cheap and good food, which is produced here in Norway, and which we ourselves take responsibility for producing. I think it's important to underline. The forwarding party claims that if the market is opened up to free imports throughout the year, quality will improve. It is assumed that Norwegian producers will then tighten up, so that the quality, which is said to be miserable, becomes first-class. I would say that Norwegian food producers today are doing their best and are concerned with quality, and I think most of the food chains are. I do not think we should try out such a proposal to find out whether it works as the Progress Party believes. I feel confident that customers' complaints will reach the manufacturers today, even if the quality-rated price system, which we have had for many years, was removed for a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e609	I think the majority of the finance committee has been very defensive. In the case of potato production in Norway, and in particular in the case of storage potatoes, this has been a significant problem year after year, and when Norway is now in the situation of producing quality products, we have proven to have the worst potatoes in Western Europe. People in the industry who are part of this through-regulated system – e.g. The leader of the Norway Group, a major player in this market, nevertheless dares to stand up and say that 80 pst. Norwegian food potatoes are tasteless. We have a variety of qualities out in Europe at reasonable prices. When this has been a significant problem here in the country for over ten years, and you don't have your own living in this value chain for potatoes, aren't we going to put the consumer in focus soon? Isn't it soon? And to the representative of Lund, I don't think the WTO and other international organisations have anything against us reducing the import protection of potatoes in order for this industry to get something to go against and understand that it has to do something. And in the case of agricultural negotiations, we don't have differentiated target prices. I have recently been in contact with a number of farmers who say: we want to produce quality, but the target price is equal to all kinds of potatoes, and that makes us unable to invest in it. So I want to ask the representative Lund, who belongs to a party that will take care of farmers' interests: Is it reasonable that potato production goes down because we cannot produce quality here in the country, and what will the Central Party really propose to protect farmers' interests, namely that we should be competitive in the potato market in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e614	I would like to reject the fact that the producers of potatoes, and those who bring the potatoes to the market, do not put customers' interests into focus. I'm sure they will. That it is still possible to improve the cases where the quality is not on top, I think, but that means that, among other things. is simply to send a load of potatoes back to the manufacturer without payment. It's a pretty powerful tool. I have a good knowledge of how the test systems and the quality check are done, and I think this is what we are going to build on. So there are always individuals who say that what we do, what we do in this country, doesn't satisfy the requirements -- that's much better what we can get elsewhere. I think we should take such individual statements for what it is, whether the statements now come from a chef or they come from someone who wants to sell potatoes. I do not ignore the fact that some of the players in the market see that they benefit better from what comes from abroad, and on which they may have freer prices. So for this to have exceptions to the target price system for some niche products, for some qualities that are different. We in the Economic and Social Committee have been concerned about this, namely that it must be discussed through the agricultural agreement to develop a system such as this. ensures that special qualities of meat, special qualities of potatoes, are not within the system in which prices are limited by the target prices. I think we're going to get more and more of such niche productions where the price quotation is free from the traditional target prices. But we need the traditional target prices for the main products, and we clearly need border protection in the form of customs tariffs in order to have market regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e623	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e626	I agree with the proposers that we need to focus on both food quality and consumer concerns. But even though it seems relatively innocent to suggest removing the customs-based import protection on potatoes, we do not get along with the fact that we need to see this in a slightly larger agricultural policy context. Then I think there's reason to remember what is the goal of our agricultural policy, which in fact has also joined a number in this room. That is two things. The only thing is that we're going to have a farm in this country that's going to produce safe and good food. It might seem obvious that we are going to have such a goal, but in today's situation, where we could actually import basically what we need for agricultural products from other countries, it's not a obvious thing – it's a deliberate choice. The second choice we've made, the second one, is that we're going to have an agriculture all over the country. It's a choice we've made because we want to use agriculture as a district policy tool – to keep up with the creation of living communities, cultural landscapes, and, at the same time, the construction around this country. Both of these options are costing. But we've made them quite conscious, and the Norwegian people have also been willing, so far, to be with and pay for what this costs, just to preserve the settlement of all places in the country. We spend about 13 billion dollars annually on direct agricultural support, in addition to the fact that the import protection we are now discussing is cost-based at NOK 6-7 billion. What is challenging for agriculture today is the profitability, or rather the lack of profitability. It can't meet by increasing the standard output, because there's a roof that's reached largely in all areas. We only have our own market. And your more people travel to Sweden and Denmark to trade, the less they become our market. So you can't meet this by increasing the price of the products, because then you're shrinking the market even more. Then one has become more and more dependent on transfers from the state. And when you see that these transfers now meet a ceiling, both in relation to international legislation, especially the WTO, and in relation to what it might be possible to accept in the political environment, you see that the space for action is not very large. Then it is important to try to develop a product against a more buying and paying market, so that the farmer can get more money. That's what's in the so-called value creation program. If we now agree to reduce the market that Norwegian agriculture has, by weakening customs-based import protection, we will have a very difficult situation for Norwegian agriculture, as a large majority have said that one will stay. We know that import protection is very much under pressure, especially from the WTO and the new negotiations we are going to enter there. And we want to have the best possible starting point for negotiation. It was also for this reason that the Industry Committee and the Stortinget clearly stressed in the discussion of the agricultural notification in the previous period that the protection of imports is of crucial importance and that we must fight for it. That must be our starting point in the negotiations. And then I kind of thought it would weaken our own negotiating point now unilaterally to introduce measures to reduce import protection. Rather, we will get back to that through the negotiations that we are going to conduct in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e637	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e640	The representative Rudihagen and I were on the Business Committee last time and worked a lot on these matters. He was now involved in this with the border trade. The last time I was in Sweden, in Nordby, I wanted to check the quality of potatoes, and I was beyond this sorting bowl to look at the quality there. I went away and looked at the potatoes, and there was no one who had dark spots; there was no one who had the mark of damage. I asked the editor: Is this Swedish-produced storage potatoes? Yes, he said, it's King Edward, and they're set at about the same time you put potatoes in Norway. According to what I could judge from the looks and firmness – and I'm no specialist – were the great potatoes. And it's just that when we just talk and talk in this room and don't create framework conditions, our competitors win. Of course, for more and more people will also buy vegetables and potatoes in Sweden, when we do not have the right to live. And to this with customs-based protection: I understand the political intention of preserving it, and I accept that. However, in a letter I received from the Norway Group, they point out that during the period 15 May–15. July the import fee is doubled – during a period when we do not have Norwegian potato production or marginal production. And what they say is that it hurts Norwegian potato production, because it's much better, they say that you have imports when it's not Norwegian production, because then Norwegian potato producers, wholesalers and marketers don't want to reprocess this market. But then we have clearly doubled the import tax. So I would like to ask Rudihagen if he would be willing to assess whether it is a sensible scheme – he was in the interests of Norwegian producers – to double the fee during this period when we do not have any particular Norwegian production.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e647	As I understand Hedstrom, he is primarily busy that we should improve the quality of our consumers, and he says that there is increased competition that will in some way change our framework conditions, and that also means that the Norwegian farmer and the processing industry are getting stronger so that we get better quality. But then Hedstrom himself points out that there is already a very big competition. We have heard years about the increasing trade in agricultural products in Sweden, and also in Denmark. And then it is that the Norwegian farmer and the producer and the food industry are already exposed to very high competition in this area. It would in itself be a good enough incentive for Norwegian agricultural products to have the best possible quality, because otherwise one can see that the market I was in, years of other shrinkage. In other words, the moment of competition as a driving force for better quality is already there. And the quality doesn't get any better even if we do it dramatically and reduce import-based customs protection. If it is that the quality is not good enough, I believe that we need to focus our search against the framework conditions that agriculture otherwise has, and see if we can help improve the situation there, so that one has more opportunities to improve its product. Because it's in everyone's interest. I referred in a way to the goal of agriculture in my article, that we should have a safe and good food production in this country, and we have a common desire for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e656	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e660	Scandal potatoes was the title of an article in the Norwegian Agriculture magazine. The contents of the article were no less strong than the heading. The debate on poor Norwegian food potatoes has flared up again, but the problem has been known for many years. Little or nothing has been done since the last light was put on poor Norwegian potato qualities. For a long time, this agricultural product has been the most prolific due to rats, warts, green colour, harvest damage and tastelessness. The political majority in charge of agricultural policy has not listened to consumers, who have long been offered a potato quality far below paria. The Party of Advances believes that consumers should no longer be found in seconds, for example. half potatoes must be cut away, or whole potatoes must be thrown away. It should immediately open up alternatives. They are found in rich mons and will undoubtedly satisfy the quality requirements of consumers. Let me do some examples of the state of things. Today, the potato is treated as stone. A potato has a drop of 12-15 metres from the manufacturer until it reaches the consumer, and for a product that is not to be subjected to shock, but treated as carefully as apples. Although it is quite obvious that there is much that can be done, there have also been trends towards a trench war, not only among the politicians that we are experiencing here today, but the different stages in the value chain owe each other even though the actors know very well that there is an improvement potential in all of them. Producers, wholesalers and retailers have not attended the class. That's what the truth is. One might suspect that very much of the old agricultural thinking is left. Agricultural negotiations with agricultural agreements and regulatory systems that have been unilaterally focused on the existing are what has been achieved. You've been the most busy producing the right amount of potatoes for the Norwegian people. Cultivating potatoes that have been the easiest to grow and to sort has been a major priority. Volume has meant much more than taste and quality. This has resulted in authorities in the industry standing up and admitting that 80 pst. of Norwegian food potatoes is not very good. The truth is, most things fail. Very much can be improved, both in the selection of varieties, on-site treatment, packaging and exposure. Despite the potential for improvement and despite complaints over many years from the country's consumers, it has been easiest to let things go the way they did before. It is remarkable that this happens when it is read and decided that we should invest in quality in agricultural products in this country. Looking at the work done by the Committee on Finance, there are no parties other than the Progress Party that make proposals that can contribute to sensible solutions that serve consumers. This should in fact no longer be accepted by consumers. There must be limits to what they need to find out because the actors in the value chain and the political majority have not done anything to solve the problem. Consumers are pushed beyond the sidelines, as we have experienced for many years, even though poor potato quality is the problem of actors and not consumers. This is a good example of how agricultural policy rotates it for Norwegian consumers. There must be quite natural objectives for agricultural policy, and that should be agreed by everyone. 1. to ensure the quality of the food we're going to eat2. ensuring that consumers have a real choice between different types of goods, both Norwegian and foreign3. ensuring consumer-friendly prices, inter alia: through quality competition between suppliers We note that none of these requirements are satisfied today. Based on the debate in the media, we have seen that some actors now want to invest resources to improve quality. On the part of the Minister of Agriculture, it is said that a price mechanism and a system of agricultural agreements with a much stronger market and quality focus than we have today. But he will leave this to the negotiations in advance of the agricultural settlement. Based on experience over many years: The Progress Party does not trust that solutions that are good enough for consumers will now be available. Therefore, it is high time to remove the customs-based protection for potatoes. It will be a contribution that can provide consumers with a better offer and more choice by opening up to non-resident goods. Furthermore, foreign operators need to be made aware of the significant market opportunities available. There are potatoes enough of good quality and at acceptable prices. This will push the Norwegian potato value chain to become more market-oriented. Finally, customs-based protection is intended as an instrument for protecting Norwegian potato production. When I got into this, I found it alarming that this import charge increased to twice in the period from 15 May to 15 July. During this period Norwegian production did not need protection. Why have an import tax when we only have a marginal Norwegian production? The market situation is such that there is nothing to protect. It must then be beneficial for consumers to obtain cheaper potatoes by removing the import duty during this period. It must then only be an advantage for Norwegian producers to raise the consumption of potatoes in the summer, so that Norwegian production can continue to surf when Norwegian new potatoes have a volume from mid-July onwards. I would like to mention the proposal made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e694	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e713	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e729	Examination of Document No by the Committee 8:59 is briefly summarized. First, however, it can be said that the history of Herdlaflaket as an alternative route to Bergen as a bypass to altitude limits under the Ashøy Bridge is not disputed. Therefore, the lack of an organized sailing path appears to be a failed premise for the setting of a cruising altitude of 62 metres below the bridge in question. After the Stortingen left Herdlaflaket as a fairway project, the matter has been made difficult. The majority of the Committee’s conclusions are based on the letter from the Ministry of Fisheries. It appears that the State Road Administration’s pre-alternative route project to Bergen has been insufficiently assessed by the Ministry and full-fledged pre-project developed by the Coastal Directorate is expected to take one to two years. In short, it is with this in mind that the majority have found it inappropriate to treat Document No. 8:59 and proposes that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e738	The bridge between Ashkoy and Bergen was completed almost ten years ago. Of the conditions imposed, I mention the authorisation granted by the Ministry of Fisheries in a letter dated 12 January 1990, which states the following conditions: ‘The applicant shall pay for the dredging and maintenance of alternative routes... from the Hjeltefjord over Herdlaflaket and through the Nau to Herdlaffjord in accordance with the requirements of the waters deemed necessary by the Coastal Directorate. The line must be fully muddy and ready for use before the start of work which may restrict or hinder traffic in Byfjord’» Alternative sailing distance is still missing. In addition, increasing size and height of international cruise ships have refocused the matter. The Bergen port is one of the major European cruise ports. An altitude limiting calls may weaken this position, which is built up over many years of effort and is of great economic importance for tourism both in Bergen and northwards along the coast. In the years following the completion of the bridge, many authorities in the Bergens region have worked hard to get the alternative route – without altitude limitation – into place. This year, 2002, this member is still missing. In the previous period, there were question-time questions about the matter – and the representatives of the Progress Party Røsjorde, Nistad, Stensaker and Knudsen promoted their own Document No. Eight proposals. Int. S. No 128 from 9 February 2001, reference was made to the opinion of the Minister for Fisheries dated 24 January 2000, where the Minister pointed out that the Hordaland Road Office and the Coastal Agency ‘currently’ are carrying out a pilot project in cooperation with local and regional authorities. The majority – that is, all lots except the Advance Party – concluded as follows: ‘After this, the majority will expect the Ministry to come back with advice with any necessary measures in an appropriate manner.’ In that majority, both Oddvard Nilsen from the Right – then head of the Committee on Transport – and May Britt Vihovde from the Left, both elected from the Hordaland. The Progress Party proposed to ask the government to come back with its own case to establish alternative routes, but remained alone. Without reminders from the Progress Party, the other parties would still be waiting. It will then be almost one year – until the Question Time on 30 January this year. On my question calling for progress in the matter, Minister of Fisheries Ludvigsen also replied with reference to the project prepared by the State Road Administration, claiming that there was a need for more thorough work. He suggested a time frame of one to two years. So the speed is not too great. In his reply, he also reserves the right to prioritize on the budgets. But then something happened last week. Then the government marked 180 days' service life. Among other things, Minister of Fisheries Ludvigsen was sent to Bergen to mark. Mr Bergen's Official Journal refers to the Minister for Fisheries on 18 April: ‘I expect the working group to need a year’s work. Then we will be ready to give money over the state budget’ It's been almost ten years. Neither the construction of a bridge nor the many promises given later to find a solution have been fulfilled. In November 2001, the then rapporteur in Bergen, Ingmar Liones, and the mayor of Bergen wrote a letter to the Hordaland depositors asking for help in the matter. The municipality of Bergen has repeated this call in a letter dated 9 January of this year to the Hordaland bench at Oddvard Nilsen. Now there are new promises. In the opinion of the Progress Party, there is only one way to make this reasonably credible, and it is in the near future that a case is being presented on the construction of alternative routes. In this way, we are anchored to the further work of a decision on big business. Hopefully this will give some assurance that this case will not continue without progress and direction. In our opinion, if the government parties are committed to the promises now made by the Minister for Fisheries, it cannot be associated with serious difficulties in voting for a proposal that the Stortinget should have such a case. Just through decisions to file a case, a secure parallel work can be carried out on other matters that need to be clarified. I want to mention in particular two things related to funding. In the light of the specific history of the case, funding should be provided by state resources, not by bridge tolls or reductions in other road projects in the region. The project should be particularly well suited for the use of foreign contractors. Then the majority of the payment can also be made abroad – above what the Progress Party calls the foreign budget. I therefore take up our proposal put forward in committee and call on the government parties to support it. If we are to settle down on the promises made by another fisheries minister, there is a danger that this project will continue as a fishing history. And, as you know, you don't have to attach too much trust to fish stories. There's often a lot of talk about the catch. What this project has suffered for almost ten years is that there has been enough talk and little progress and action. Therefore, once again, it may not be possible to damage the case if an actual now confirms the progress of a positive decision in the Stortinget. On the contrary, I believe that this will help us to achieve the necessary progress and achieve the objective in a reasonably acceptable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e783	Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e786	Some brief comments on this matter. The case of alternative routes to Bergen has, as has already been pointed out, been treated in Stortinget several times, at the latest for approx. a year ago, in addition to being up in the Questionnaire. Thus, the exposure in this area has been relatively large. However, the Council of State has informed the Committee by letter that a pre-project has been carried out by the Road Administration of the State. However, there are still several issues that are unclear and that therefore need to be examined in the context of as much investment as we are dealing with here. I therefore expect that it is very likely that this case will come back to Stortinget once these investigations have been completed, in order to ensure optimum access to the Bergen port in terms of choice of link, and not least in terms of the cost framework. The Christian People's Party believes that it is inappropriate now to deal with and promote the matter in relation to the proposal made by the Progress Party in this Document No. The 8 proposal, and therefore recommends that the matter be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e795	The mountain is Norway's second largest city. There's a lot of traffic at the port of Bergen, and it's been fortunately also very much cruise traffic. But since 1992, when Ashøybrua was finished, it would be necessary to find an alternative to sailing trails, because the opening under Askøybrua is too low for the new large boats. Although, of course, the engagement has been great in Bergen in relation to everything it means to have a port where the big cruise boats can come up, we accept from the Workers' Party that a settlement is necessary. It is necessary, even if it has been a pre-project, to do the job that the Minister for Fisheries says must do and that it will take a year. But a year must be enough. And in addition to what was in Bergen's Official Journal when the government was on its way to the West and told me how great it was to sit in government for so long, and if everything they had been doing, it was all over the newspaper that the Minister of Fisheries promised Bergen this alternative sailing path. It was supposed to come. With the promises given by the Council of State – and I'm excited to hear what he says here today – it's clear that one has great expectations that when the further project is completed in a year's time, one must also join in and allow money. But I have to say that I'm surprised how little one has heard about this project from both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party after they got into the government position, because at all the time that has passed, when we've discussed this with alternative sailing trails and the Herdlaflaket, it has been a huge commitment from former spokespersons in Bergen, Ingmar Liones. However, I am confident that the Council of State will do what he has promised, and I think it is quite natural for the Stortinget to attach this matter to the minutes. Because it doesn't help how many decisions the Storting makes, we're forced to take seriously that we're going to settle the matter, look at what it's going to be like on the specific location, and not least look at what the cost is. Making a specific decision doesn't help. What helps is that the Council of State started this work, and that we get the matter back to Stortinget when the work is done. The Labour Party is staging the plural recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e806	I can confirm that the Committee's comments and the intentions of the proposers are fully in line with the progress and the measures I have taken to clarify alternative routes to Bergen port. I also have to remind you that it has been ten years, but I have been the Council of State for six months, and this was one of the things I immediately went into, precisely because I consider it important to get a clarification after waiting so long for it. But, above all, Bergen's role as both a port city and as the main gateway for tourists arriving in Norway on the cold are strong reasons to ensure access to the Bergen port in the future. Major cruise ships, as they are being built today, will require a altitude higher than the opening below the Ashøy Bridge. When there is now strong criticism that 10 years have passed, I must remind you that the State Road Administration in Hordaland investigated the basis for an alternative route through Skelelangersundet. It must also be borne in mind that, when the Ashøy Bridge was approved by the Directorate of Road in 1986, there was another option to sail that proved to be in conflict with protection interests. So there's a bunch of relationships that have played in relation to the momentum. I think there is a need for a more thorough analysis of the sailing path, and I want to ensure the quality of the cost estimates that have come from Vegvesenet, which are in the order of 300 million. kr plus/minus. I think it must be in everyone's interest that we get a decision-making basis that's so good that we know what we're going into, and that there are no surprises. It should be in everyone's interest. It should also be in everyone's interest that we ensure progress in the matter, and that the decision-making basis in which the Stortinget will be involved is consistent with objectives. On that basis, I have commissioned the Swedish Coastal Agency to carry out a more comprehensive preliminary project, and the Coastal Agency, as I have explained in a letter to the Committee, will have carried out an analysis within one to two years. The size will then clearly be involved in it. And as I have written in the letter to the Committee, on the basis of which the majority of the Committee has decided, as far as I can understand, it is quite natural that during the course of 2003-2004, we will come back to the Storting with a case that could form the basis for a decision. But at the end of the day, this is an economic issue as well as a technical one. And the Storting will agree to make that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e815	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e818	I'm pleased with the commitment of the Council of State. But that's how it is now. It is the sitting state council that must respond to this, and not those who have our state councils for the last ten years. The majority of the committee has accepted the letter from the Council of State and has accepted that we attach the matter to the minutes. The committee has recently been in Bergen. We from the Workers' Party have been there twice in the last 14 days, and we have a great understanding of the commitment and the cause. When the Council of State says it will take one to two years, I don't know if he noticed that the representative Ranveig Frøiland said that one year must be enough. I would like to have the Council of State comment on that. Does he think this will take a couple of years or is he thinking about stressing progress? Then I also wonder if the Council of State has any idea of the implementation time. How long will it take to fix this? First, a decision shall be taken and then implemented. Does he have thoughts about the progress of that? I hope we can be a few that this matter does not have to take another ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e827	I have a great understanding of the impatience and the need to secure the route to Bergen in a future perspective. But I remember today's ships aren't blocked entry, so we're talking about a problem that we have to solve for future cruise traffic. I want to keep pace, and I registered the wish that one year must be enough. But as I wrote in the letter to the committee, the Coastal Agency has suggested that they need one to two years to investigate this. So the Stortinget will be involved in the decision as well as in future appropriations, and that is why I said in my speech that the Stortinget will probably be involved in 2003–2004. We are in 2002, so I feel that I am good in both what I said and the strong aspirations that have come from the pulpit today to keep pace. And I can assure you that I have no ambitions other than to keep pace in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e834	It sounds reassuring, but there are still reasons for quality assurance. So now we feel that the time allocation is back where it was when questions were asked in the Questionnaire on 30 January this year. Now we're back to that can take two years. When the Council of State was on the podium of the government in Bergen, he was very clear that it would only take one year. When the Council of State answers now, he is also back to the answer in the Questionnaire with reservations regarding budget coverage. When he was on a sprawl trip in Bergen, he said: «Then» – that is, after a year – «we want to be ready to give money over the state budget». In the question time response, a significant reservation was made regarding the economy: «I would nevertheless remind you that the matter has a level of economics that far exceeds the annual budgets.» That is one of the reservations made by the Minister of Fisheries in the reply given in Stortinget. So there's a reason to ask for a clarification here: what are we going to do? It will be clarifying whether there is actually a willingness to speed up governance and progress in this matter, so I hope that the Council of State can now confirm that it will take a short time, and that there is an active will for financial commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e840	I am a little uncertain about how many times I have to say from the pulpit that I intend not to spend more time than what is most necessary and; I have a willingness to carry out the preliminary project and will invite the Stortinget to take that decision. I assume that it would attract considerable attention if I first said in a letter to the committee that the preliminary project would take from one to two years from they got the assignment earlier this winter, and then changed it and did not stand by what I had said to the Stortinget. Secondly, this has an investment framework – the cost estimate so far is 300 million. kr plus/minus 25 pst. – which naturally means that the Storting must be involved. Those who had to believe that this can be done without the Storting getting involved should probably go round and look at how decisions are made. But the tempo and the will are there, and I don't see that there's any contradiction between what I said in Bergen and what I said now, and what I've said in the questionnaire before. I think it should guarantee the will that I addressed this matter as soon as I joined the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e847	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e863	The background to this matter is a Document No. Eight proposals from Kenneth Svendsen and Thore A. Nistad to reduce toll rates on Rv 5, Spring Road, between Springland and Sogndal. It is proposed that the Government be called upon to provide for debt relief or other measures that may result in severely reduced toll rates of Rv 5 between Sogndal and Fjærland. Toll financing of Rv 5 between Sogndal and Fjærland was approved by the Stortinget treatment of St.prp. No 2 for 1990-91. The project was financed entirely at a cost of 312 million tolls. kr and with a tolling period of 17 years. Sogn and Fjordane County decided in 1989 to provide a guarantee for loans corresponding to the estimate of costs including 25 pst. cost increase. Through the examination of the State budget of the year, the project was allocated 50 million. kr as conditional reimbursement for 2002-2003. An overall committee emphasises that high toll rates will increase the distance burden and give the local population an unreasonable extra tax. In addition, excessive rates may contribute to traffic rejection, i.e. road users choose turns where possible. Unwanted traffic results in poor road-standard routes, which in turn contribute to reduced road safety. A comprehensive committee therefore asks the Government to review and evaluate the financial instrument for road projects financed by tolls. The majority of the Committee will also ask the Government to consider a system of maximum rates for toll projects. Furthermore, solutions should be considered for road projects with very high toll rates to maintain the recovery period. Debt restructuring, as used for other transport projects, should be considered. There are minority comments and a minority proposal that I assume will be explained by the respective batches. On that basis, I recommend the Committee's proposal for a decision that Document No. The 8th proposal by Kenneth Svendsen and Thore A. Nistad is appended to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e878	I would like to make some special and some general comments on this matter. Toll financing is often a spice layer in which different bodies contribute. There are good objectives that a local population or a regional population wants to be resolved and that cannot be resolved within the budget agreed. Different levels are involved, and there's splintering between users and regulators, and sometimes some private people who give money. There is often a great deal of willingness to pay tolls that relieve ferries, for people who live on the islands are watered down by paying tolls, they always have. When they get a 24-hour offer at a slightly higher price, they found that there is a much better offer, and they are willing to pay more. This is the case in this case we are dealing with today. When we receive a proposal for toll financing for the Storting, we largely follow up as long as there is reasonable support for it locally and if it is within the agreed framework of bet within the respective states, i.e. the stately frameworks. But regardless of what the Labour Party thinks, it's important that we follow through on these toll projects, both individually and more generally. We have to follow if unexpected or unimaginable rashes occur and adjust if necessary. In most cases, adjustments have been made in order to increase the price if necessary and, if necessary, to extend the time. But besides that, it is often the county councils that guarantee, and if the guarantee liability goes on, this can change the whole priority of the county. So it's important that we follow and see that this doesn't get the results we haven't thought of. As the case spokesman said, the entire committee has pointed out that for high toll rates, very unfortunate outcomes can occur. A majority, members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre, point out that the bets have become significantly higher for some toll projects than expected, and that they represent a significant cost to the local population and to the business community. We therefore ask the Government to assess the introduction of maximum rates for toll projects and also to assess debt recovery. There may also be other instruments in this area that can improve our control and control and ensure that there is a certain similarity in the treatment of these projects. We in the Labour Party have not locked us to the conclusions, I can assure the Council of State. Now, when we've been on several counties, and when we read one of the last things that came from the Government about adjusting the budget, we see that the proposal for toll financing is popping up all over the country. Then we're forced to think on two levels. We need frameworks and guidelines to apply to all, and we need to ensure that we don't get unreasonable results, and of course we need to make sure that each project doesn't get unreasonable results. The Labour Party therefore looks forward to the Council of State coming back with a good discussion and evaluation in connection with the budget, possibly at a different time. Then we're going to take the concrete discussion about this. I guess I feel that the situation is a little bit inconspicuous. It becomes such a case; one goes in for it, for it's good purpose, it's broad local support. It's hard to go against this, because people are willing to contribute themselves, and they want a solution – I myself live in an area that has got a rather new toll project. When this is the case, we will not make any changes now, but we will ask for a more general assessment of this with a toll project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e895	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e898	It was interesting to hear the post of the Workers' Party, because they have a thousand excuses in relation to how they're going to do this. They say that there is a great deal of willingness to pay among people, and that the Workers' Party will follow up on both the price and priorities of toll stations. They will also look at frameworks, and they will look at guidelines. I guess the sum total is that the Workers' Party has a love for toll stations. Now, in fact, the charges there are between 2 and 2.5 billion kroner, and the total cost for the drivers is now between 40 and 45 billion kroner. And then I have the following questions for the Workers' Party: They had so much goodwill in their proposals here, but do they have some thanks for how many toll stations they want in Norway – or is it unlimited?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e903	I can assure the representative Nistad that we do not have a thousand excuses. We stand by what we've been up to, but it must be allowed to say that now we think that this is getting so large that we are forced to stop and think about and see if we are on the right track, not least because we are concerned that we have rules that make the different projects look something similar. But there will always be special circumstances that need to be assessed especially on a case-by-case basis. When it comes to this with great willingness to pay, I said that especially where it has our ferry, it has our great willingness to pay. Because there they know what it means to come to the holiday home five over twelve, and don't come home until the next morning – the last ferry leaves at twelve. And they know what it means to pay 150 kroner for the car on the ferry. Then they're willing to pay 180 kroner to get a bridge where the ferry went, it's quite natural. It's actually an argument I've used quite a lot at home on Jären – when we have 10 and 5 dollars in tolls around Stavanger, there's little money compared to what people in Ryfylke pay. This is actually also an element of this context. The logic of the totally free path would be total free ferries, at least national road ferries – the logic of it would be that. Now I didn't say that the Workers' Party is proposing it, because it will also cost a lot of money, but we have in return been involved in some toll projects. When it comes to roof: No, we don't have a roof where we can only have 114 or 72 or 36 toll schemes in Norway. But we're recording that now there are a lot of people, and what we think is reason to stop and make sure that we have a certain level of it, and that we have frames and guidelines, so that there is more similarity in the way one treats the different projects. And here we look forward to getting a decision base from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e912	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e915	1 400 kroner for a trailer to drive a return trip through the boom, 300 kroner for a passenger car. This is Norway’s most remote border barrier. So expensive is the fact that the few — both business and private — can afford to use the bomb in Fjærland. It's actually built a modern, great road to 400 million. kr. That's 90 kilometers of speed limit. It's the few roads that have that standard and that speed. It has few off-roads. And perhaps the most important thing, as the Council of State is very often flagging here: it's a road safe and safe. It is a modern road, which could reduce accident statistics, and it could save society a lot of money, especially in the hospital sector and in the business world. Instead, all the parties, with the exception of the Advancement Party, force both people and business to continue using the old roads. And the representatives who sit on the Committee on Transport have no excuse, they know this area well, more are from there. They then force people to drive on rascal and narrow roads, about Gaul, Høyanger and Leikanger. All of these roads have a standard that makes it undesirable with increased traffic, and this is what the representatives in this hall know very well. Today, Stortinget has a chance to show that they have meant something about it when they have repeatedly pointed to high transport costs, traffic accidents and the famous zero vision, especially through the elections. I'm not very excited about the vote today. Because as usual, I know the high volume, but the bad reality. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Progress Party, which has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e924	Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e927	All groupings in the Transport Committee and in the Stortinget have a desire to explore the possibilities for reducing toll costs. In fact, the Progress Party has the opportunity to have a higher rhetoric because in its alternative state budgets they have different frameworks for appropriations for transport, but as a result there are actually small shades in the text of this option. We all want to look at this in the context of the 2003 budget. It's referred to something that might be the most important point, which we're all behind: the traffic rejection that high prices can mean. It might be the reality that forces political groupings to look at new things in economic terms. It's going to be exciting to see what the government will come up with from analyses here. So the department warned us – quite legitimately, of course – that reduced tolling costs could have consequences for the public highways, perhaps even in the same state. And there'll be mixed emotions in the moment we take this realism inside of us. It is also clear, of course, that we do not ignore the impact of a changed policy on tolls on new installations. If we get general maximum prices, as desired, and significantly lower prices, it can also put a bomb on our friends in the same state that will have approved other facilities. Because it is not possible to get under the chair that there are precise calculations, concluded in legal agreements between different actors, behind the toll projects that have been approved. We have a minority comment that is somewhat nuanced in relation to the majority comment, where we state that, in fact, it is the unpleasant price surprise, but within the system that has been drawn up for the treatment of toll tariffs. We have conditional reimbursement arrangements, which have been used on this facility, and we have the county council, which is behind as simple bailiffs in fact, ultimately. So this is a system on. In a way, we already have maximum prices, but there are specific maximum prices for each plant. It will be exciting to see how the Ministry will deal with exactly these issues when it comes back to this in the 2003 budget. A short time ago, there was a report on TV 2 about the same toll facility, where we knew most of the actors. It appeared in the report, if I did not misunderstand it, that the state had large revenues from this facility. I don't know if anyone else has seen the report -- it's quite fresh, as far as I remember when it went yesterday -- but if the council wants opinions about the state's revenue from toll collection, there was a new angle there, from my point of view. To the seventh and last, we ended up with the level of appropriations for the road sector as the most leading point in solving this. Our willingness to accept and participate in strong reductions in the rates of individual toll facilities will be guided by the level of appropriations that we are able to put into the annual budgets at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e946	The right has always flagged that they are the party of business. In the previous elections, they were high on the road to proposing a reduction in costs for business. Repeatedly, both during the elections and in the Committee on Transport throughout the previous four-year period, the Right ran high on the need to reduce transport costs for industry. And that's when I wonder, how will the Right explain its breach of promise in this area? So the representative from the Right said that the cancellation of the toll could have consequences for road development funds. Then I would like to ask the representative: what were the consequences for the NSB and the Railway Agency when the Gardermobanen was unexpectedly paid off? It was outside the budget, and it was actually NOK 8-9 billion. Did it have consequences for the NSB and the Railway Agency? It would have been nice to get an explanation from the representative of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e953	As far as the business environment is concerned, I have no breach of promise to admit to the representative Nistad. We have entered into a government cooperation where, year after year, we seek to meet business needs. This applies both to transport costs and to framework conditions. What I said in my statement about the impact on the national road transport funds was by reference to the ministry's letter, where the facts are pointed out, that a large contribution is to be made to debt relief or other for toll companies, it might reverse the same framework. That's how I've understood it. It is also my opinion that, as I said in my post, we are not able to keep up the level of funding, the relief in one area will come to stress in other areas. In relation to the Gardermoban, which is quite special, I have understood that in that case there was not a dilemma between two parties, which put the same party on both sides of the table. And there was no other dangerous way, as the majority saw it, but to erase this debt. In terms of toll solutions, insofar as they have large volumes, it's actually a purchasing power withdrawal in it -- whether we like it or not. So that's the theoretical difference between the two things. But I would like to be allowed to live here and now that when it comes to trying to bring down the toll rates for business, not least on this facility that tops the statistics, I'm going to be involved in the political process and try to do the most in that area. But that things are connected, we're not going to make it in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e966	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e969	In Document No: 8:77, from representatives Kenneth Svendsen and Thore A. Nistad, the question of reducing toll rates on Rv 5, Vjærlandswegen, between Fjærland and Sogn is addressed. The issue is to alleviate the debt on this road and tunnel system or to provide for other measures that can significantly reduce toll levels. This facility is one of many holiday relief projects based on the fact that the municipalities, municipalities and county municipalities have promoted a joint application for the Stortinget, all the time with the clear assumption that a self-payment via toll collection will accelerate the road system during the period, in front of other county municipal installations. In other words, local authorities have wanted this type of facility technically and economically. The effect of such an exposure then becomes better accessible than where a ferry or long bypass is involved, or in many cases opens up completely new access to areas of weak communication. The spring road is no exception in this way. Meg was familiar with the price of ferry in Spring 110 for people. It is also referred to in the document that, in all likelihood, traffic on the route has been reduced after the ferry was replaced. I don't think that can be possible. I rather believe that there is a significantly greater traffic on the route now than at the time the ferry went. At least there's no doubt that there's been a positive development with shorter travel time and with producibility all day. All the time during planning and processing, this was a project that was intended to be fully funded through tolls of a total of 312 million. NOK – 1990 – with a collection period of more than 17 years. So these were the conditions on which the project was based. An overall committee sees clear disadvantages in the case of high tolls on individual installations. The Committee therefore asks the Government to review toll financing for this type of installation presented in the 2003 State Budget. I agree that this road system is of great importance as a link between parts of the country and regions of this part of Sogn and Fjordane. We see that of the significant traffic here. However, the wish of the majority to implement maximum rates for toll projects could have the effect of refusing high-cost projects, even if they are necessary, because the total economy of the project is too high. The Christian People's Party still wants those decisions to be supported if a local party wishes to finance its road projects in full or in part. We therefore agree with the vote: that the matter is annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e984	Tolls have very many places our solution when necessary road projects were to be carried out. Especially for business, it has been important to have good and shortest possible road links instead of narrow, winding roads or long ferry routes that cost time and money. Many communities and county councils have therefore submitted to the toll project, because they see that it is the only way to get the projects carried out within reasonable time. In document No: The 8th proposal, which is the starting point for the debate we are debating today, has been made in concrete terms by the Progress Party on the Rv 5, Vjærlandswegen toll project. This project was accepted as a 100 pst. toll project, and it currently has the highest toll rate among all toll projects. Today, toll rates are so high that many react, and it is clear that there is a burden for both private and commercial drivers who depend on the road. Then one might say, as some suggest, that those who were involved in the project had to be aware that the stakes were going to be high. However, I think it is difficult to predict the load that so high toll rates over time will result. And even though the traffic in this project has increased, there is no doubt that the current rates are in favour of rejecting some of the traffic that would naturally have benefited from this road link. Those who have access to it will find ways to bypass them, which are both much longer and have poorer standards, so that both environmental costs and road safety become worse. Then one might ask the question if lower bets would have led to poorer ignition in the project if one had managed to catch up on the traffic that naturally could have used this facility. Today there are a lot of toll projects around the country, and I agree with Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, who says that maybe we should stop and consider a little of that way of solving road development. There are different downtimes and different rates. As a result, there is also different burden on businesses and other users. The cause is based on a specific project. However, I found it natural to choose the solution that the Committee has taken: to ask for a review and an assessment of the financing mechanism for road projects financed by tolls in general. Although the project is in my state, I think it is right not to go on an individual project at this time, but to look at the scheme in general. For this reason, I am very pleased that a number of people have pointed out different assessments that should be made in the review requested by a joint committee, namely that we are looking at maximum rates for toll projects. It may be possible to do so based on the experience we have from existing projects. I also see that there are several aspects to such a scheme, but that is precisely why there is reason to consider this more closely. The same can also be said of the majority of their observations on debt cancellation. We know it's been used in other transportation projects. In that case, there should be a basis for assessing this in a toll project which also has an extra high cost. We look at the toll project around the country and the costs when it comes to tariffs, it's disparate. We find a lot of toll projects with high rates just in areas that also have a ferry, so that the burden on business and other users gets very heavy, especially in coastal areas, along the entire west coast and northwards. I am therefore pleased that we have had such clear plural constellations in this matter, and I look forward to getting back good assessments in connection with the budget proposal for the autumn, as the committee has requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1003	I propose to make such assessments as are requested here today. The price evolution of toll projects has been essentially price adjustments in line with the general growth in consumer prices. Road offices are the decision-making authority for such tariff changes. For some projects it has been necessary to increase tariffs in addition to the consumer price index, as a result of an increase in costs and/or a failure of revenue. These changes have been within the assumptions made by the Storting in the treatment of the projects. In the case of the Spring Road, the assumptions for the project, in addition to the price increase, are based on a real tariff increase of 1,5 pst. per 1 % years from 1995, which, during the project's recovery period, 17 years, results in a tariff increase of more than 20 pst. This has been treated locally and introduced as a prerequisite for the realisation of the holiday relief. Toll financing requires local initiative and decommissioning. It is therefore assumed that political bodies in the municipalities and counties concerned are in favour of such funding. These decisions are based, inter alia, on: an investment plan, a financial framework and proposals for tariffs. When the local decisions are taken, detailed plans and cost estimates will not yet be available. There will therefore be significant uncertainty related to future traffic through toll stations. There are different benefits and disadvantages of this type of funding. Toll benefits and disadvantages are part of the basis of local policy treatment. What I want to remind you about in this case is that a maximum rate of tolls in my view could prevent the implementation of toll projects where there is also a large local consensus on the project, for example. in the case of suspension projects. In this context, reference may be made to the fact that there are already a number of restrictions on collection. The funding shall normally be based on a period of 15 years of amortisation, with the possibility of a maximum extension of 5 years. The tariffs may be increased by up to 20 pst. above the price increase if the toll company encounters payment problems. In the holiday relief projects, the rates may be set at a maximum of 40 pst. over vacation charges. The disadvantage for local road users and businesses is reduced by up to 50 pst. and/or roof for passing within specified periods. I find it difficult to see alternative forms of funding for debt cancellation that do not burden the national road budget. It is therefore also likely that a debt cancellation will shift other projects in time. However, in line with the majority's comment, I would like to consider a system that introduces maximum rates for toll projects and assess solutions for high-tariff road projects, including debt restructuring, and come back to Stortinget with this. In the context of the 2003 state budget, I would like to support the vote on Document No. The 8 proposal reviews and assesses the financial instrument for road projects financed by tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1018	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1021	Now I'm not going to ask the Council of State about zero visions and road safety, because then I don't get a special answer, I guess. When I walked down Karl Johan today, I saw that many good books can be found out here, because today is World Book Day. As most people probably know, Fjærland is one of Europe’s book cities, and the only book town in Norway. The site has a large number of tourists from both the country and abroad who want to visit this beautiful place and go and look at all the books in the naust and older houses that have been turned into bookstores. But then the toll station is located right at the entrance to Springland, on the way from Sogndal, and that brings a cost of $300 for a private individual who wants to visit this cultural city and maybe buy a book. Then the book price is getting pretty high! There we are in the Progress Party being accused of being uncultural. But how will the Council of State – or the Government, I must say in this context – ensure that access to this cultural book town is made more reasonable? Then I will ask the Council of State the same question as I had to the representative of Hoddevik, because the Council of State was also involved in the payment of the toll. She said that the down payment can shift other road projects. Then I ask, is it not possible to have the same down payment procedure that you had on the Gardermoban? Is there a completely distant thought about the road, but it goes in all other contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1032	It is absolutely right that Springland is an interesting place to visit, also for those who are interested in books. Therefore, it is amazing that it is easy to get there without having to travel by ferry. So the availability is better than if you hadn't had that solution. In general, I would like to say that when it comes to paying off debts on toll projects like this one is sketched, it would be very bad if you went out and said that you wanted to pay off the project in the way I see that the representative Nistad is sketching here. That arrangement would completely destroy the toll financing principle. When you are in favour of a toll financing project, you do it because you want to have the project carried out, and you choose this kind of effort and sprawl – as you do with this very funding scheme. So it probably won't stop having such projects, because there are many good projects that it's important that we get implemented here in the country. But the assessments requested by the committee majority, I promise to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1039	Sometimes I get the impression that we live in a reverse country. Here it is that the Storting through appropriations for SND spends millions of dollars in order to get establishments out in the districts and make people live there. Investigations and documents are provided to Stortinget. These are statements from Stortinget's pulpit on how to get established in District Norway. Then we are told that it costs 300 kroner for a family to drive a car through the toll station and 1,400 kroner for a trailer. Then I wonder, does the Council of State think that $300 to pass a bomb is going to stop the deportation, and maybe get more people to move to the area? And is $1,400 for a trailer helping to create more nutrition in this area? Does the Council of State think it makes sense to move from the central eastern region to establish itself in this area, with the costs involved? I would like an assessment from the Council of State of that. Then I have heard, among other things, The council here points to this with local participation, and that this is a spice layer. Some polls have been carried out on tolls in the areas concerned. They have shown that people are not for this. Local politicians have proposed referendums. The majority have said no to that. Is the Council of State willing to take part in the introduction of referendums in the areas where toll stations are to be set up, so that the real people will emerge?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1050	The implementation of a number of projects, in particular holiday relief projects, is precisely aimed at reducing the distance disadvantages experienced by many in the districts of Norway. That is why it is important that we implement some of these projects. I travel around this country and experience a tremendous commitment to get a lot of projects that, if it's not exactly similar to the Fjärland project, at least holiday relief projects that will also cost the community a lot of money. The interest in these projects is particularly linked to business and it is also linked to young people who still want to live in these areas. So what I'm registering is that there's a local exposure just in relation to giving opportunities to these areas by establishing special continental connections. To the question of referendums in these kinds of cases, I have to say that when we have local democracy in this country, I expect local politicians, both in municipalities and county councils, to show commitment and represent their voters in deciding such questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1058	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1080	In 2002, 10 years have passed since the issue of gas-fuelled ferries came to light on the political agenda. In the meantime, a lot of greenhouse gas has disappeared in the atmosphere. After a very long process with a lot of setbacks, we finally have the first gas-powered ferry in place, “Glutra”, which currently operates the Søllnes–Åfarnes link. Glutra has been a success both operationally and environmentally. In addition, it is also well adapted to all types of passengers, including disabled persons. But what about the continuation? The Christian People's Party has on several occasions taken initiatives to increase the use of gas in the transport sector, including: wishing to build several ferries for the use of natural gas. In the examination of the national transport plan, a majority voted in favour of the construction of several gas ferries and the continued free of charge of gas as a fuel. The Christian People's Party followed this up in the revised national budget for 2001 and all except the Advance Party agreed that gas ferries should be put in place in conjunction, where appropriate. The size has been positive on several occasions about the use of gas in the ferry sector, due to the reduced emissions of the use of gas. The Transport Committee pointed out that nitrogen oxides, NOx emissions and particulates will be dramatically reduced. It could be a 20 pst reduction. in CO2 emissions and up to 90 pst. in NOx emissions in relation to today’s diesel-powered ferries. Experience with “Glutra” shows that the prescribed reductions in emissions of environmental pollutants are achievable. In the setting up of the National Transport Plan, an overall Transport Committee requests the Ministry to initiate the construction of several national road ferries using gas as a fuel and to facilitate the provision of fuel supplies to such ferries. From an environmental point of view, we can pick up the biggest gains on the west coast, especially near larger cities like Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim. Here are the local concentrations of nitrogen oxide high. It is known that there are additional costs related to the construction of LNG ferries, but that the price will gradually be equalised if these ferries are built in a certain number. Recent objections to speeding up the use of natural gas in the ferry sector have been raised. I will present the following counter-conceptions: State pollution control and the Ministry of Environment must agree on guidelines for the purchase of allowances by NOx.The Maritime Directorate must revise the requirements for ferries. To that end, experience with ‘Glutra’ in this way is positive.Construction costs for gas ferries have to be reduced.Gasferries have to be justified on the basis of cost-effectiveness and environmental emissions. It was claimed that the self-employed with SCR cleaning, so-called purified diesel, is a cheaper and almost equally good alternative. Priority must be given to links according to professional reasons and political wishes. It is also claimed that the work on fuel cell engines has come so far that it is not now necessary to commit to natural gas. From the Christian People's Party I would like to comment on this: NOx emissions in Norway have a ceiling of 156 000 tonnes on an annual basis. Emissions have to be reduced by 38 000 tonnes per year. The potential for reduction lies in the maritime fleet, so there is now a need for a clear action plan and action plan for reduction in this area of transport.For NOx quotas, coordination between the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and not only on quotas, but also on efforts, appropriations and budgets, is needed. This needs to be coordinated.We know that the Maritime Directorate has adjusted the requirements for domestic ferries. In this way, it should be positive for gas ferries according to the good experience with ‘Glutra’. Manning has already been reduced by one man in relation to the take-off requirements and must now be at the same level as for diesel ferries. Additional costs are also greatly reduced, perhaps down to just plus 10 pst., by building more ferries in series. These can then be built in Norwegian yards and with Norwegian engines.It is also desirable that an efficient infrastructure for the production, storage, transport and use of LNG be developed, and we know that is going on.For gas ferry operations in Rogaland, both Gasnor and Rogaland Trafik companies, together with the road office in Rogaland, have recognised the importance of creating an operational economic foundation. Operating costs, including fuel costs, must be competitive compared to the self-employed. It is therefore offered natural gas at an energy equivalent price. Overall, a natural gas engine has several lower emissions of environmentally harmful exhaust gases than a diesel engine. Especially for emissions of NOx, CO2 and particulates, these emissions will also be lower than in diesel engines equipped with particulate filters and SCR catalysts. The use of filters and catalysts for cleaning the emissions of a diesel engine also introduces a number of new operational problems and environmental problems related to the removal of emissions. In addition, there is also an increase in investment and operating costs associated with the cleaning systems. Of course, sampling with natural gas fuel cells as an auxiliary engine may become applicable in a few years' time, but regular operation with fuel cells such as propulsion is likely to be well ahead of time. Bellona has on several occasions been concerned that we should be careful about expanding natural gas infrastructure, because we are then committed to this solution for a long time in the future. They believe that hydrogen as a fuel is so close that, as a general rule, it is considered that natural gas should not be put into service. This is a challenge that the Christian People's Party is taking seriously. The hydrogen as a zero-emission technology is interesting, but it is important to stress that this technology is in the near future developed and that the operating costs at an early stage are likely to be unacceptable. In the meantime, we need to further develop already known technologies, and here the transition to purified diesel and the use of natural gas in the ferry sector can be beneficial in the short term. We don't have time to wait if we're going to follow the high environmental policy requirements and the ambitions of the Storting. There are significant environmental gains in the transition to natural gas in shipping. For example, the State's pollution control authorities have long established that, for example: Rogaland County is heavily burdened with NOx emissions. Transition to gas ferries will dramatically reduce emissions. Gas fuelled ferries are also about something more than just environmental effort. The development of competence and technology has gone hand in hand with the expansion of gas supply to industry, service buildings, hospitals and ferries. Since new ferries are faster than old diesel-powered ferries, this can also lead to the need for the same number of ferries not present in the future. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that new national roads are built with environmentally friendly fuels, and that they facilitate different solutions based on available technologies and fuel delivery opportunities. It is a national task to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. We are facing a major renewal of the ferry fleet, and for the sake of the environment, we should replace the old ferries with new environmentally friendly vessels. The size wants gas-powered ferries in the West, where today there is a special opportunity to do so. When the gas-powered ferries cost something more than the conventional dieselferies, it is, and we must stress, the environmental benefit we pay for. Finally, for the Christian People's Party, gas in the transport sector is not an objective in itself, but only a means of improving the environment. We want to continue to evaluate and promote the best solutions for the good of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1154	I can assure the interpellant that the environmental issues that are raised here, I am very concerned about. The highways burn about 120 million annually. litre diesel, marine gas oil and contribute approximately 0,8 pst respectively. and 2.3 pst. of national emissions of CO2 and NOx. Compared to a conventional ship complying with the IMO adopted NOx requirements, a gas journey under optimal conditions will reduce NOx emissions by 90 pst. and the emissions of CO2 by 15-25 pst. No account has been taken of differences in CO2 emissions in the production and distribution of the fuel. However, gas operations will lead to some emissions of the heavy methane greenhouse gas. The Gothenburg Protocol covers the emission components sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, volatile organic compounds and ammonia and will apply from 2010. NOx emissions shall be reduced to 156000 tonnes, i.e. a reduction of 29 pst. relative to 1990 levels. Gas transport is one of several possible measures to cope with NOx obligations in the Gothenburg Protocol. Today, there is no formal requirement for the emissions of shipping to air, either nationally or internationally. The UN Maritime Organisation, IMO, has correctly adopted NOx requirements for new engines or major conversions from 2000, but the requirements have not yet been ratified by enough countries to bring them into force. However, in practice all new engines meet the IMO NOx emission requirements. All new ferries built after 2000 meet the requirements with good margin. Norway has ratified the IMO Convention. The question of what environmental requirements should be imposed on future ferries must be assessed in the light of the most cost-effective environmental measures across all relevant sources, within and outside the transport sector. This will be further assessed in an inter-ministerial work on the follow-up to Norway’s obligations under the Gothenburg Protocol. A basis for this work is available to assess the cost of measures. Gas fuelled ferries require a functioning and secure liquefied gas distribution system, LNG. In addition, natural gas must be available at a competitive price. Issues related to State involvement in increasing the distribution and use of natural gas need to be considered in an overall manner for all relevant uses and will be addressed in detail in a separate DGH on the use of gas that the Government intends to submit in June. Today LNG is only produced on the Tent Goods, but preparations for the production of LNG are under way at both Kolsnes and Kårstø. The most recent routes for the use of natural gas ferries are all reasonably close to one of these three landing sites. The ferries designated as suitable for the transition to natural gas operations, the tribal road connections on the Stavanger-Trondheim route and the main connections across Trondheimsfjord are currently served by ferries so newly newly built that they still have many years to go by before they are ready for replacement. However, during the period 2002-2005, a smaller number of new ferries in these interconnections are currently being deployed as a result of traffic growth and therefore of capacity considerations. At present, the main needs for replacement are, in particular, related to edge-to-side connection with ferries, which have been poorly adapted to the safety requirements set by the EU to seagoing vessels. These are requirements that Norway has already chosen to comply with for its domestic fleet. These ferries that this is about are generally not suitable for gas operation. It costs more today to build a gas ferry than a diesel. According to the Road Directorate, this difference can be expected to decrease over time, but it is uncertain how much. The use of gas ferries may also entail some additional costs for shipping companies related to the training of staff and increased efforts to oversee and control over time. Furthermore, transition to a new fuel during a transitional period will result in less flexibility in the ferry system, in the form of reduced rocking possibilities. If the ferries are ensured to ensure a stable supply of natural gas at competitive prices, the operating costs could be aligned with the corresponding conventional units. It is then provided that the current tax exemption on natural gas is maintained. In recent years, alternative environmental measures have been developed for use in both new and existing ships, which either alone or in combination can lead to significant reductions in NOx emissions. For example, catalytic purification can reduce emissions almost as much as when transitioning to natural gas. Investment costs will be lower, but operating costs will increase somewhat, inter alia. for continuous control and operation of the catalytic converter unit. I emphasise that the transport authorities will contribute to the testing of eco-innovations in ferries. In recent years, the Road Directorate has used considerable resources to upgrade existing ferries. By investing 3-6 million. kr per. According to the Road Directorate, two-thirds of existing ferries can have their NOx emissions reduced by about 40 pst. while at the same time reducing fuel consumption by about 5 pst. In the implementation of a larger number of ferries, costs could be significantly reduced. Other ferries, i.e. a third, may reduce its emissions to approximately the same level as gas ferries using catalytic purification. This technology is now being tested in a new ferry in Sogn and Fjordane. We have good experience with environmental measures in existing ferries that provide great environmental benefits in relation to costs. A stronger environmental effort on existing ferries will thus be able to generate significant reductions in NOx emissions relatively quickly. On the basis of a cost-effective follow-up to Norway's environmental commitments, I would like to take the initiative to step up efforts to improve the environment in today's ferry fleet. I want to continuously assess the possibilities to bet on gas ferries. Decisions on the contracting of gas ferries must be taken from an overall assessment of the suitability, availability and price of the connection concerned for gas, construction and operating costs and environmental impacts in relation to costs compared to other NOx measures. The Government will come back to these questions in a proposal to the Stortinget on the follow-up to the Gothenburg Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1185	I would like to thank the Minister of Transport for a positive response to the interpellation and note that we have a parallel objective of reducing environmental emissions in the ferry fleet. It is very gratifying that considerable resources are invested in upgrading existing ferries, with the significant environmental benefits it brings. But at the same time, the ferry has a screaming need for new buildings. And then the question arises as to which technology to use. Catalytic cleaning of diesel has produced good results, and will be particularly relevant in areas where natural gas per year. is currently not available. In Norway, we have the environmental advantage that we already have natural gas available, and the minister himself mentioned the "Tjeldbergodden", Kollsnes and Kårstø. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport will have an ongoing assessment of the possibility to bet on gas ferries in this area. I would like to remind you again that there is an offer of gas at an energy equivalent price right here. Finally, considerable resources have been used to develop gas technologies and to make the gas available for use in Norway. As long as significant environmental benefits from the use of gas in the ferry sector can be taken into account, this should, in the view of the Christian People's Party, lead to the absence of a single ferry. I am therefore pleased that the government will come back to these questions in a proposal for the Storting in June on the use of gas, and we are waiting in suspense for what it contains.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1194	I interpret it there that the interpellant and I have a reasonably similar understanding of the challenges, and that we are interested in finding the best solutions. There are several ways to deal with these challenges in particular with NOx: there are short-term solutions, and there are long-term solutions. Of course, the various measures we have already seen — and some improvements have been made — relate to the short-term solutions that can be found on existing fleets. Gas ferries will represent more long-term solutions. It also means that when we think about the lifetime of the ferries, we have to look today at what opportunities exist and what are cost-effective solutions when ferries are to be contracted. As I also mentioned in my introduction instead, a specific area in Norway is most suitable for gas ferries. In that area, there is a primary need for capacity that may require new ferries, not so much replacement of existing fleets, as there has already been a change. But to the extent that new ferries are to be contracted, I think it is right that we make assessments as to whether we should rely here on gas technology in terms of overall and cost-effectiveness in terms of the environmental objectives we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1201	The coastal fleet and the ferries are now responsible for a lot of pollutant emissions. A reduction in emissions from these will produce a great deal of effect, but we also need to ensure that conditions are made so that liquefied gas, LNG, and other new technologies are actually put into service. The picture of the size was clearly seen in the setting of the national transport plan, which was dealt with last year. And now it's the Council of States that has to make sure that the wish of the Storting is put to life. Governments must cooperate with the various departments affected by such policies. This must lead to improved access to natural gas in Norwegian ports so that access to natural gas does not become an obstacle. Norway has advantages in the use of gas, but we also need to demonstrate the ability to create more. If we are to achieve results, we are dependent on an active policy. Then we need a government commitment, especially in research, development and development of pilot projects, and there must be pilot projects both in ferries, coastal fleets and gas distribution. This is by no means a new policy. The state has always played a central role in the development of an infrastructure. I would also like the Minister of Transport to expand the geography, so that you can imagine that several areas in Norway can have the opportunity to use gas as a fuel. The Oslofjord area is very much in favour of such a policy being implemented. The passenger potential for boating in the Oslofjord area, on both sides of the fjord, is so great that we can see potential environmental benefits – not only by reducing emissions from boats, but by significantly reducing car traffic on both sides of the fjord – and that there should be reason to also bet in this area with great power possibilities. The situation today is that gas as a fuel is low in use in this area. In the near future, the Stortinget will be presented with a public transport message, and it could also be relevant to withdraw the question of conditions for public transport which contribute to pollution to a minimum. The state must be willing to finance the extra costs, and we must ensure that the speed of ferries is followed up at the planned pace. The Minister of Transport has a task here. And I assume that when the budget is presented in the autumn, this is reflected in an active policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1216	In the national transport plan, the first LNG ferry Søllsnes-Åfarnes in Møre and Romsdal was given great attention. This was also the interpellant inside its post. It was established that the use of natural gas instead of diesel would have a beneficial environmental impact on all types of polluting emissions to air, but cost-effectiveness was already made depending on developments and on the construction costs of the respective types of ferries, inter alia. The availability of LNG – reliable and even delivery – was also highlighted in this document. Int. S. No 119 for the 2000-2001 period, which followed, the overall committee responded well to this gas holiday chapter, with even clearer production of relative pollution reduction between diesel and gas use. Gas was here diesel superior in terms of both NOx emissions, particulate emissions, sulphur emissions and CO2 emissions, but it is the NOx emissions that characterise this ferry fuel debate, naturally enough. However, there is a close link between construction costs, operating costs and volume of emissions. Substantial results have been achieved in the latter by catalytic cleaning of diesel units. The new M/F ‘Nordfjord’ in the Stårheim-Isane relationship, as pointed out earlier in this debate, has a good margin in relation to the UN NOx emission limit values. The semi-declaration points to the gas journey as a relevant choice by new Contracting. However, the main objective of this policy is cost-effective environmental benefits. I can see here a little bit of ambition between the interpellant and the state council, where the interpellant focuses on the expectations of the gas solutions, while the Council of State has clearly pointed out alternative options for similar environmental benefits, for example. by catalytic cleaning of diesel. For us it must be important to get the environmental benefit – gas use will always be possible. But we're going to follow this development carefully. Then the Labour Party's representative also addresses the search light against Stortinget's wish. The wish of the big business has been expressed in the documents to which we have all referred, but the wish of the big business can look different, depending on where the environmental benefit seems to be most likely to be recovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1229	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the question, and also thank the Council of State for a good answer. I think it is important to put this question precisely on the basis of the environmental requirements that will be imposed, and then consider the solutions that will be found, and not on the basis of one technology, but on the basis of the greatest possible environmental benefit. If we compare gas ferries with today's diesel engines, the environmental benefit is highest in the case of NOx, and acid rain, which NOx leads to, is one of the most serious and acute environmental problems we see in Norway. We have already lost 18 salmon strains due to acid rain, and 12 are still threatened. It is the South-West that is hardest hit by this largely long-carried pollution. In terms of sulphur emissions, we in Europe have managed to halve these emissions. In Norway, we have gone further down. As regards the evolution of NOx emissions, it is different. In Europe we see stabilisation, while in Norway we have an increase. It's an important task for us to bring these down. At the same time, we have to take into account that when we are going to launch environmental measures, we also need to see what other environmental impacts the operation will have. With regard to the gain on CO2 emissions, which leads to hazardous climate emissions, the benefit of introducing gas ferries is very small or the accounting goes largely to zero. In a forward-looking assessment, I think we need to look at the overall environmental benefits, and then put forward a policy that promotes a ferry business that has the least possible total environmental impact. I think it's best to ensure this by laying clear framework conditions, so that there is a technology competition between several technologies in the field, and the technology that brings the best environmental benefits will get the best framework conditions. In the long term, we'll probably use hydrogen and fuel cells, and I'm optimistic. But then it's important that we don't commit ourselves to an infrastructure that will soon have expired, and short time in this context may be 10 years. If we're going to build an infrastructure for gas in this country, we're going to build it for 20 and 30 years. It is also important to keep that ratio in mind in the assessment of gas ferries. There are many things we need to make wise decisions about in this big business. But I don't think it's quite reasonable that we're going to point out at this point that gas ferries are exactly the technology that we're going to determine right now is the technology that it's going to be most used for in the future. The most important thing we can do is to fix the framework conditions, so that the best environmental solution wins.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1244	The theme of this interview, which has been discussed by many, has been discussed in many settings by the Committee on Transport, for example. in national transport plans and in several budgetary settings. Yes, in the last budget setting, a comprehensive committee has said that it should focus on the distribution and use of natural gas domestically, where this gives environmental benefits. It is the environmental benefit that has been emphasised every time the Committee on Transport has commented on the use of gas in the field of transport. There is too much connection to gas ferries where this can bring environmental benefits. The area we are now debating is therefore not the big problem; on the contrary, it is an area in which the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and therefore the Storing, too, have gathered. What has been objecting to this is that the gas journeys have been more expensive than the conventional ferries. When building more than one prototype, you have to assume that the later ferries that are built will be cheaper. But a minimum factor for the use of gas ferries today has just been the lack of LNG facilities. Then a question can be asked if it's the right policy to bet unilaterally on gas and gas ferries. I think it's right, as the Council of State was, that one must be open to all kinds of solutions, not necessarily lock itself to one area. Therefore, I would like to point out in particular that the commitment to research in the field is important to follow. Norway has a very high average age for ferries, with old conventional technology. This is the main reason for the large environmental emissions in the ferry sector. I mean that just by building new conventional ferries, a huge environmental gain will also be achieved. The degree of contamination of old and new conventional ferries is very different. Yes, even those who claim that one can achieve almost the same thing that way. I'm not going to be good at that claim, but it's clear that we achieve a lot by getting a more modern ferry fleet than the one we have today. So upgrading old ferries can also be a short-term measure to achieve an environmental benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1255	The deposits that have been held show that there is still a strong commitment to the Storting in order to facilitate environmentally friendly operations in the ferries sector. It has not been my goal with this interpellation to point out gas as the only and absolutely best dangerous solution for the future. On the contrary, I strongly agree with those who say that here we have to do a continuous job of researching what is going to be the technology for the future. My point is that in Norway we have the advantage that we have the natural gas available, we actually also have the technology available, and we have a good example of our success. It has cost a few dollars more, but it will also cost to develop new technology. It will also cost to put the first ferries into operation with new technology. That's why my goal of this interpellation was to say that maybe natural gas is a solution within a particular area, where the gas is available and for the ferries that we now know we're going to build to renew the ferry fleet also in that area. Then we'll see in the long term when hydrogen technology and fuel cell technology have come, if we have the total pollution-free ferry. One rains today that a ferry has a normal life span of 20-30 years. And if we have the perspective that we have the fuel cell engine in place in 20-30 years – then I might be a little pessimistic – then the ferries we are today based on natural gas will be ready for replacement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1267	The debate we have had through this interpellation has been a useful round. I believe that the Storting is interested in finding the best environmental solutions for our ferry fleet, both with regard to existing fleets and with any new ferries. It has also been suggested that alternative forms of energy should also be considered elsewhere in the country. As I mentioned in my article, we have seen in an area where distribution is more or less in place, and going further and looking in other areas of the country must also be seen in the context of a broader debate on the availability of gas and distribution of gas for other purposes. It is quite clear that in terms of appropriations for solutions here, it is that we grant money for the national road ferry operation that makes us make state contributions in relation to the fleet we have in relation to national road ferries. In that way, we can, the state, I can, the Storting, help to provide leadership for what solutions we choose. I'm going to be looking for the best environmental solutions for ferries. I'm going to focus on natural gas, but not as the only solution. The solution we have to go in for is the suspension solutions that give the greatest environmental benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1291	Then Stortinget went to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1298	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. The proposals are as follows: ‘1. The size calls on the Government to extend the derogation from the decision of the Storting to increase the combined truck limit from 5000 to 6000 kg, from 1 March 2002 to 1 July 2002. The transitional arrangements shall apply to those who have ordered a car before 1 January 2002. 2nd@item: inlistbox The size calls on the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2002 to provide an assessment of the environmental impact and the cost implications for business, state and local authorities of the increase in the weight limit from 5000 to 6000 kg for combined trucks.’» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's proposal for a decision shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1327	During the debate, Mr Frøiland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:76 [[2001-2002]] Alternatively, this proposal and the Committee's proposal for a decision shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1352	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to abolish the import duty on potatoes without delay.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the Committee's proposal for a decision shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1377	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 9 April 2002: ‘The government asks the Government to promote any supplementary amendments to the law on occupational retirement provision in order to ensure the right to earned benefits for members of a pension scheme without the issue of free policies. The issue of free policies to retired members of the pension scheme is not amended.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1392	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1399	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1406	Then we'll have a new vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1421	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring an action for the construction of alternative routes to Bergen port as soon as possible in line with the assumptions and decisions made when the Ashøy Bridge was built and in line with political promises made after the bridge was put into service without alternative routes being built.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the Committee's proposal for a decision shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1446	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requested to provide for debt cancellation or other measures that may result in severely reduced toll rates on Route 5 between Sogndal and Springland.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the Committee's proposal for a decision shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-23.ana.ud1713e1467	Case No. No voting theme is available.
