ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e57	Two permit applications are available: from the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative Siri Hall Arnøy from 28 February onwards and until further notice from the representative Trine Skei Grande on leave from 6 March until 8 March to attend the conference at Wilton Park in Great Britain On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The vara representatives, for Akershus County Christian Holm and for Oslo Ola Elvestuen, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e88	Christian Holm is present and will take the seat. The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e93	I would like to make a proposal on the right to maternity benefits for self-employed women.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e98	The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e101	On behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Inge Ryan and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to convert heating with fossil energy sources to heating with new renewable energy sources, in order to reduce the emissions of dangerous greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e106	The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e109	On behalf of the representative Rune J. Skjellaaen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on better processes for setting up refugee receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e114	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e128	The Municipal Committee has found it necessary to ask the Presidency to evaluate the practice now established, and I would like to express my first pleasure at the fact that the Presidency has followed up with the assessment that has been made today. In the Center Party's big group, we've discussed the experience of open ears so far. There's no doubt in us that this is a good arrangement, and we're for it, but we don't feel that here in the Stortinget we have yet found shape. We have not had the opportunity to express our opinion through the Presidency, so just a few brief comments. Last year, there was a broad review of the working conditions of large-scale representatives – not least with a view to having a greater opportunity than we had before for contact and business in our own countries, hence several days off. Then we're in a situation where we have to use very many of these very same days to listen. We are concerned about what is happening in the spring – it is with the background of several committees – when it is possible to find the time for hearing. We are some of the assessments made by the Presidency. It may not be beneficial for an organizer to listen open in parallel with the question hour, but we are some in it, considering that there is a need to open up hearings in more days than the non-meeting ones in the Stortinget. But we also think that there's a reason to ask questions about whether that's enough, whether it shouldn't be possible in special situations in addition to question hours. A committee may have a short time to make an adjustment, they may have to finish a case and have a close meeting program, or they may be busy. It may then be necessary to grant exceptions over and above Question Time. We believe that this will be particularly relevant in connection with the end of the session. It is on this background that I am now going to make a proposal on behalf of the Center Party and ask for support from several. There is a proposal for a new eleventh sentence, an addition to the Presidency's recommendation, which reads as follows: ‘Otherwise, the Presidency may nevertheless agree that there may also be an open hearing, even if there is a meeting in the Grand Duchy or in the departments where there are particular reasons for doing so.’;» So with that proposal, we support what the Presidency has recommended, but we allow the Presidency to grant exceptions if there is a situation in which it would be best for both the case, the committee and the Grand Duchy otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e146	This is a matter that has now had about two months of probation. There have already been some problems crystallized in some committees, and the majority of committees have also asked us to solve a little bit of the tie when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. It's done the majority of the presidency by now opening up that one under the ordinary question hour may have open hearings. It is clear that one can discuss one then degrades some meeting in Stortinget. It found the majority in the Presidency that we could make, as the ordinary Question Time does not decide. This is because a committee has asked us to make certain changes. Now the Centre Party has presented a new proposal today. The Presidency will deal with this in such a way as to give us an oral briefing that this would be presented today, and we will well find out that we are on the basis of what we have done. Now we're going to have a trial period -- we haven't had this long trial period to figure out how this works. It is only when we arrive at May-June – and perhaps October, November and December – that we really get to try out collisions when debts open hearings versus meetings in Stortinget, because in that period there will also be meetings both Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, and then we can come up with this. But the starting point from the plurality of the Presidency is: first let's try and see how this works, and then we may get back with additional measures if necessary. That is why I recommend the plural position of the Presidency as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e153	I tend to base the principle that when the Storting makes decisions, it knows what it does. The majority adopted a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure as late as the end of the previous period, and this amendment entered into force on 1 January of this year, i.e. less than two months ago. In general, there should be a period of satisfaction for decisions taken by the Storting itself. And if we are to rely on experience as a justification for amending such a decision after a short period of time, at least the basis of experience must be something greater than what we have had the opportunity to achieve with this change in the Rules of Procedure. I remember that one of the reasons behind the decision by the majority of the population last year – it says in the setting as point two – was: «The attention of the media and the public to the meetings of things can easily become even less when an open committee hearing is conducted at the same time.» That's a point of view that has a lot to do with it. It suggests that there has not been a Stortinget house past that the interest in what is going on in this room is relatively limited from before. And then it can't be a nearby task for the Storting itself to stimulate even less interest in what's going on in the hall by inviting people to take more interest in what's going on in committee in the form of open hearings. I would also like to point out that I find it unfortunate to justify the majority proposal from the Presidency, with which the previous speaker made it less dangerous to the Question Time than other meetings in this Chamber, because in the Question Time there can be no decision. That's the same thing as saying that what's going on in the form of debates in this room, or in the form of an exchange of information, it has no interest, it's just the votes that might call for interest. There can't be a point of view that the Storting is earned by inviting people to build. The representative of Solholm used the term that the proposed decision of the majority of the Presidency could be interpreted as a ‘degradation’ of Storting’s Question Time as the Institute, and I understood him there to agree that there is such a way of thinking that is backed up by the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. That is why, for my part, I have opposed this, and I would recommend to the House that we do not change the Rules of Procedure at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e169	I agree – and join the majority in the Presidency of the United Kingdom – with the proposal for decoration, as President Solholm said, in the context of open hearings. I think that's a sensible thing. We in the Progress Party have had – at least I have had it, even when I was a member of the Constitutional Committee, who proposed open hearings – the position that we should have occasion to open hearings even if there are meetings in the Chamber. I think it's a bit of organizing when Storting's vice president thinks it would be a downgrading of the questionnaire – I'll disagree with that – if you now allow to have open hearings at the same time that it's question time. We all know in this room that it is relatively common for ordinary committee meetings while there are debates in the hall. It is the presence of representatives who have been one of the problems of having open hearings, as it is a little difficult to be both, and you have a little more duty to be in the open hearing than you might have in an ordinary committee meeting, where there is an exchange of representatives. That's what's actually been some of the problem. But I have always believed that once we can only be absent from the debates of committees other than one's own in the Chamber, and have regular committee meetings, we should also have open committee hearings at the same time as debates in the Chamber. However, we have chosen not to make any proposals in that direction, because we knew that the situation was that there was no particular support for it. But when another party, the Central Party, is promoting a proposal to open up the Presidency in special circumstances, I would recommend our group to vote in favour of that proposal, because it is moving towards what we have always meant. But, as I said, it's not always that we find it appropriate to make minority proposals, and we didn't find it necessary in relation to the presidency. But once the other party has done so, I think it would be natural for us to vote in favour. I want to replicate to the President of the Great Government that in terms of media coverage, I think we may sometimes have to start walking a little bit in ourselves and rather say that if there's any interest in something happening in the Storting building, it's in a committee, in an open committee hearing or in the hall, it's of the good. I don't think there's going to be any less interest in what's going on in the hall if we have an open committee hearing at the same time. It depends on the topic under discussion in the Chamber, whether it is a political issue, or whether it is a general social commitment to the matter. The same applies to whether there is any interest in the open hearing. I can't see that there should be any contradiction between having a debate and having an open hearing at the same time. There will also often be quite different media interested in the various issues. There may be journals for organisations that are concerned with what is happening at the open hearing, while there may be more common news media interested in what is happening in the hall than vice versa. I think we should now do what the Presidency has proposed. I would also recommend voting in favour of the second proposal, and it may be appropriate if the practical problems in May and June become too great. Now the situation is also, as some people sometimes forget, that if a committee is to have a hearing, it has to be open. And if there's a pressure from the outside to get hearings that exceed the available hours when there's no meeting in the hall, there might be a need to come back with a change in line with what the Center Party has proposed, when we get to May and June. At least we'll be open to it. I therefore agree with the majority position and recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party also vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e182	The important change that was made in the Rules of Procedure when it came to the hearings was to get transparency, and that is the principle that it is extremely important to maintain. In practical terms, account must be taken of the fact that Storting has to have ways to organise both meetings and hearings that make it practicable to carry out our work in a serious and proper way and without spending unreasonable amounts of time. I want to start this way to make it clear that for SV, it's the openness in the hearings that's important, and we want to hold on to that. That is why, like others here, I also react a little to the use of wages when he talks about the downgrading of the Storting when you hold open hearings in parallel with, for example. meets in Stortinget. I find no real reason for such a argument. I can understand that someone thinks that this would be a great system, but with the practical experience that at least I have, we had to expand the day by many hours and weeks with a few days if we were to get this going. SV is going to join the majority vote of the Presidency. I would also recommend the SV's group to support the proposal of the Central Party, because it is in favour of giving the Presidency an opportunity to deviate from the system that should be the main way of arranging this, in cases where it turns out that it is practically impossible to carry out the Storting's work within the timescales set. Therefore, we believe that there should be no great danger of giving the Presidency, which has now signalled a relatively restrictive view of this, such an opportunity of seas to assess whether it would be right for the purpose of Storting's work to provide such an opening in periods of the year when there is a need for meeting places and meeting rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e191	It was not the Vice President of the Storting that introduced the term ‘degrade’. He did that when he justified the majority proposal of the Presidency. He stated for his part that it was an effect he was willing to take on the purchase in order to get a majority for the proposal. Now I understand that there are up to several parties that have changed the perception of the clock. 8.30 a.m. this morning and until the beginning of this meeting and will join the more far-reaching proposal of the Centre Party. After all, the quality ranking between Stortingen’s Question Time and other meetings falls away, as any meeting in the main hall could give way to an open hearing. I must remind you that it was the great majority who adopted today's Rules of Procedure, i.e. the reform with effect from 1 January, which based on the principle I quoted instead: ‘The attention of the media and the public about the meetings of things can easily become even less when there is an open committee hearing’.» It's a very obvious correct assessment, and I think it's peculiar that the same majority in a very short time have put that concern aside and now argues in principle that it's perfectly in order that the Storting goes down in terms of reducing the interest in what's going on in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e205	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox What gets the majority and not the majority, we don't know until we've voted. [[Fotation, see page 1793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e220	I have asked you to keep this briefing for several reasons. After several years of understatement and austerity in the economy, the NRK has now taken responsibility for the economy of the company and has decided to implement several savings measures. The savings measures have recently created major debates both in the Stortinget and in the media. The many letters from politicians, organizations and individuals on one hand have shown a great deal of commitment. We also see that many people experience that the NRK has an important role in society. I'm glad. On the other hand, the debate has also highlighted the role of the NRC. The debate has also shown that the principle of governance of the NRK is not as clear to everyone. I want to immediately establish the government's principal starting point: the government thinks it's very important to keep up with a non-commercial public broadcaster with a wide range of programs for the whole people. This offer has a price. The objective must be pursued by the necessary financial framework. The economic situation in the NRK now gives us three main options: 1st@item: inlistbox We can choose to extend the financial framework to the NRK – either through the broadcasting fee or by other means.2. Alternatively, the NRK can save in less important areas of activity. It's NRK in full swing. We have to realize that it is not possible to set a balance sheet requirement for operations, and at the same time refuse the NRK to cut costs.3. The third option is to reduce the level of ambition of a licensed public broadcaster. In my opinion, this will be the least successful solution. The public exposure in the NRK is based on the fact that the NRK has and will have an important role in society. This applies to the public ownership, licence financing and the requirements of the programme. In discussing issues of public ownership management, funding and regulation of the NRK, it is therefore important to ask the question of what the NRK should be. The starting point for government media policy is to secure freedom of expression, as a seat for a living government. For a long time, there has been a broad political agreement on overcoming this objective. This objective was also the starting point for the previous government’s announcement of media policy, St. ermeld. No 57 for 2000-2001. The size of the message will be handled in April. With the objective of freedom of expression, the Government marks such a responsibility as the Freedom of Speech Commission proposed to legislate: the Board of Directors’ responsibilities to ‘establish the responsibilities of the Court of Justice for an open and public debate’. The proposal for a new Section 100 of the Constitution, together with several alternative drafts, has been submitted to the Stortinget as a private legislative proposal and will be dealt with during this major period. Another main objective of media policy is to secure cultural diversity and a Norwegian-language media supply. The idea is that a well-developed and functioning infrastructure for the dissemination of information, news and opinions is necessary for people to have real freedom of expression and to be able to take an active part in democratic processes. In modern societies, mass media has this role. Similarly, mass media is today a very topical cultural arena. Here, the NRK has a central role that conveys a wide range of cultural impressions. One of the main tasks of media policy is to facilitate the development of a broad, diverse and independent media image. No other medium can compete with television when it comes to popular penetration. Eighty-two pst. television on an average day in the year 2000. Each person saw an average of 138 minutes. Television occupies an important part of our lives and holds and values are influenced by the impressions we get through television. The NRK had its first radio broadcast in 1933. Since then, the NRK has been one of the most important sources of news, information, culture and entertainment in Norway. I believe that every Northman can pull out at least one shipment or one entry in the NRK that has made a lasting impression – and that has thus been in good or bad shape as a human being. Despite the resolution of the broadcasting monopoly and the ever-increasing media supply, the NRK holds the position of the European public broadcaster, which is the strongest in relation to private commercial competitors. During a week, virtually everyone benefits from NRK's programs, either on radio or on television. The large impact of broadcasting makes radio and television a particularly important element of the infrastructure to which the Performance Freedom Commission places such emphasis. Public broadcasting has long been one of the most important tools in Norwegian media policy. In Norway, the transaction has traditionally been synonymous with the operation in the NRK, although TV 2 and P4 are also required to be a public broadcaster. Digital technology is now leading to an explosion in media supply. One consequence is that there are multiple channels to send to. These channels must be filled with something. Software production has failed to keep track of the increase in number of channels. As a result, more and more of the supply in all channels is characterized by Anglo-American language and culture. Another consequence is the increasing number of joint meeting points and reference frameworks in society. The times are over when we could expect everyone to see the Saturday entertainment at the NRK. When the information supply increases dramatically, it will therefore be more than ever necessary and interested in a credible source of information and entertainment, in Norwegian and on the basis of Norwegian culture and tradition. The NRK has a unique ability to be such a common hold point. The NRK's offer is available throughout the country. The licence funding gives the NRK a commercial freedom that allows it to produce programs that advertising-funded public broadcasters cannot offer. It is therefore my firm overtone that the NRC will also have an important role in Norwegian society in the future. The premise is that we are willing to pay what this costs. The debate on the savings measures in the NRK has largely focused on the extent to which the State can or should govern the operation through the state ownership of NRK AS. The transformation of the NRK — from a management company through formation into a limited liability company — has been aimed at providing the NRK with space for action in order to operate on a competitive market. On the one hand, the aim is to establish clear responsibilities for political governance. The form of a limited liability company is based on a clear division of roles between the owner and the company’s rental. The limited liability company is a legal entity of its own. Therefore, the general right to give instructions that political governance has in relation to central government does not apply. In public limited-liability companies, both the board and the administration decide on both strategy and operation. However, in the NRK, the Governing Board has not been responsible for the day-to-day programming. This responsibility falls under the broadcasting law of the broadcaster alone. He has a double role as director of the company and editor in charge of the programme. Although NRK is a licensed and non-commercial enterprise, NRK competes in some respects with commercial channels. Within the framework of competitive activity, it is essential that companies can make rapid decisions. Waiting for the owner – and possibly the Stortinget – to decide, is time-consuming and makes the company less flexible. As a licence-funded public broadcasting programme, the NRC has an important role in society. It is to supply an offer that commercial competitors cannot offer to the same extent. Therefore, there is also a link of legitimate political interest to the product itself – the programme provision. At the same time, the NRK is an editorial activity which has important tasks in terms of promoting a free and open debate on society, among others. social criticism and control of political governance. The NRK is the editorial medium in Norway that has the greatest impact. There is therefore great reason to be cautious about the political governance and control of the NRC, especially in editorial matters. For reasons of trust in the NRC as an independent source of news and information, clear lines of responsibility in the operation and clear limits of political governance are very important. To conclude this paragraph: The starting point must be – for NRKs as for other state-owned limited liability companies – that government governance takes place at a superior level. Within the framework of the public broadcasting mission, the board of directors and the management of the company must have wide scope for action. On the other hand, decisions that have a direct and significant impact on the public broadcasting system itself are a political matter. In such circumstances, the statutes will require that the cases be submitted to the General Assembly for handling. In the event of wide-ranging changes, the Ministry of Culture and the Church will refer the matter to the Stortinget if it has implications for the programme provision.All governance must be done with respect for the role of the NRK as editorial activity. Questions about the editorial profile and content of specific programmes are under the editorial responsibility and are not to be dealt with in political bodies. In practice, this means that issues related to internal operations and organisation, e.g.: by editors or district offices, must lie within the freedom of the board of directors and the board of directors of the NRK itself — and responsibility for — to decide. These changes must not impair the actual programme provision in areas which are at the heart of public broadcasting. It is therefore important to distinguish between, on the one hand, they override the general broadcasting principle and, on the other hand, how the NRK organises and operates the company in order to fulfil this task. The first is a political matter, the second is not. This distinction may not have been as clear for everyone. From this point of view, it is my opinion that the concrete savings measures that the NRK has now undertaken should not be dealt with politically – corked by me as a general meeting or by the Stortinget. The NRK must have the freedom to implement the necessary conversion in a way that affects at least the core business and the tasks of general broadcasting. As you know, the economic position in the NRK is difficult. During the period from the NRK was converted into a limited liability company in 1996 and until today, the NRK has experienced an operating deficit every year. In order to reduce the deficit, the NRC has made annual use of financial income and extraordinary income. In other words, the NRK has sold off the values and used the revenues to save the ordinary operation. For example, in 1999 the NRK sold its owner part in Norkring, the company that owns and operates the nationwide analogue broadcasting network. Today, when the NRK is going to fight to secure a place in a digital ground, we can put question marks on the foresight of this sale. This testifies to poor governance. But when that's said, I would also like to stress that the NRK has at this time taken some important strategic options to secure its position as a public broadcaster in the future. A company which through the broadcasting fee is sure of reliable and stable revenues must be able to adjust its costs. In recent years, the General Assembly has instructed that operations should be balanced. For 2001, the NRK appears to be doing this. But the NRK is still not a whole thing. For 2002, the NRK has announced that the company will once again fall short. The reason for this is that a number of the savings measures that the NRK is now implementing will initially provide savings from 2003 onwards. From 2003, the Management Board expects that the costs will be at the level of revenue. This suggests that the NRK implements the savings measures needed to reduce costs. At the same time, we must not forget what the NRK has achieved with the license money in these years. Over the 1990s, the NRK has significantly increased programme and channel supply. The NRK is currently broadcasting three radio channels and two television channels to most of us. An overview from the NRK shows that since 1990 the number of hours of transmission is double on the radio and close to triple on the television. In the same period, the cost of each transmission hour has decreased significantly. During this period, the NRK has also established several other services, including: over the Internet. The main purpose of the NRK is not — and should not be — to spend money, but to use the means of licensing to produce public broadcasting. Nevertheless, €3 billion is a lot of money, and we need to be able to ask the NRK that these funds be used as efficiently as possible. I consider it obvious that the NRK – as a state-funded enterprise – always chooses the most rational technical solutions, the least labor-intensive working methods and the most effective organisation of the enterprise. It is also important that the NRK does not uncritically expand in all directions, but concentrates its efforts on nuclear activity. The fact that NRK is now implementing several efficiency and savings measures is a step in the right direction. The government assumes that the current rationalisation in the NRK must be continued. We want to facilitate the development of the NRK into a modern and efficient media business. I would like to contribute to this work, including: through close and critical follow-up to the financial management of the NRK in the General Assembly. The NRK is facing major challenges in the years to come, especially due to digital developments. Among other things, costs related to the digitisation of archives, the establishment of new radio and television programmes and parallel digital and analogue broadcasts. In the next few years, the NRK will probably experience an increase in costs in addition to the expected price and salary growth. Therefore, the annual adjustment of broadcasting fees to the corresponding price and salary increases will not be enough. We are now faced with a choice that will have significant consequences for the role of the NRK in the future. If the NRK is still to be a strong public broadcaster, it is decisive that the company will have a stable and better financial framework. The main source of income for the NRK is today the broadcasting fee. The fee is about 92 pst. of the revenue. The NRK may also conduct business. However, the potential to increase commercial revenues to the NRK is limited, including: because there are clear limits to commercial operations: the general range of programmes must be free of advertising. The surplus from the business must be used to finance programme production and programme purchase. Broadcast charges cannot be used to subsidize your business. In addition, the NRK must take care of children in the commercial business, especially when the product sales are related to programmes for children. It's important that the NRK is conscious of its responsibility in such matters. As publicly funded broadcasters, the NRK has freedom to focus on matters other than purely commercial broadcasters. I assume that it is not relevant to extend the funding of advertising by the NRK. There is a clear willingness in the Government to provide the NRC with a stable and good economic environment. As I see it, we have three options: to increase the revenues of the NRK directly through an increase in the broadcasting fee, to reduce the costs of the NRK through changes in the charging system, or to give extraordinary rewards to the NRK over the state budget. The later years, Stortinget has adjusted broadcasting charges according to the price and salary growth. Any increase beyond this has been specifically assessed in the light of the cost situation of the year in question. In other countries, the scheme is different. In Denmark, a majority of the Folketing are committed to media policy settlements which set the level of the licence for the next four years. One option could therefore be a planned and gradually increased broadcasting fee according to the model of the Danish scheme. This will give NRK stability and valuable play space in the time shift in which the company is now involved. Today, the broadcasting fee will not be charged for value added. Therefore, the NRK will not be deducted from the final charge for the purchase. This costs NRK annual costs approximately 195 million. kr. This also means that a large part of NRK’s support services and production equipment are shielded from competition, and thus that the purchase of services externally becomes less profitable. In other European countries, there are several examples of how VAT rules are designed. Denmark has a model where the general broadcaster is subject to VAT at full rate – 25 pst. Finland has a model in which the general broadcaster is subject to VAT at a reduced rate – 8. pst. In both countries there is thus a full deduction of VAT. Sweden also assesses a similar model. In the United Kingdom, public broadcasting is not subject to VAT and does not have the right to deduct VAT. However, there is a system of compensation for incurring VAT. This scheme is not part of the VAT system. Several models can be considered here, with different consequences for the cost situation in the NRC, the burden on the licensee and the State’s proceeds. The government now assesses four options: Licence, 0-VAT for NRK, full VAT and a VAT refund scheme. The government has not reached a final conclusion, but comes back with concrete proposals in connection with the State budget. Today, the NRK's mission as a public broadcaster is not precisely defined. The Broadcasting Act states quite simply that Norwegian National Broadcasting AS should operate public broadcasting and related activities. The European Commission has announced that government funding will be required for public sector actors. The conditions will be that the public broadcasting mission is clearly defined and that the mission has a clear legal base. A control system independent of the public broadcaster will also be required to ensure that the assignment is met. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, these requirements will be binding on Norway. It is now necessary to provide a more precise definition of what tasks the NRK should have, not only for the purposes of the EEA Agreement, but most of all for the benefit of the listeners and the viewers. It will be a clear advantage that the audience knows what kind of offer they can demand from the NRK. I have therefore started a work on defining and defining the public broadcasting mission. I don't want to go into details about this work right now, but I still want to mention some of the main principles that have to be central to the definition of public broadcasting. Active participation in politics and society requires knowledge and insight. Knowledge and insight require a wide array of information. An important part of the mission must therefore be to provide the Norwegian people with a wide range of new, up-to-date information and cultural material based on their remoteness. For the districts, NRK’s radio and television district broadcasts are an important part of the information provision. I would therefore like to stress that it is necessary for the NRK to maintain a good supply of districts throughout the country. On the other hand, there is little use in a wide range of content if people can't take it in. The public broadcasting requirement must be established here: the whole population must ensure access to broadcasting. This must be an important principle in the transition to digital distribution. Producing Norwegian language and culture has also been an important part of the mission of the NRK. For example, NRK’s district missions have an important language policy role in the neo-Nordic region in particular. In practice, people have unbounded access to foreign media through the Internet and foreign television channels. This means that in the future this will have to become an even more central part of the NRK's business. The transition from analogue to digital distribution has been an important element in the debate on the future of the NRK. Autumn 1999 handles the Stortinget message on digital television. The size was then in order to develop and finance a digital television network based on demand for capacity in the market and not on a state task. Other statements from Stortinget included: Norwegian public broadcasters must ensure capacity, that the network becomes nationwide and that most of the capacity of the network is used for television. Currently, there is a set of frequencies for a network with a capacity of 15 to 18 television channels. This frequency capacity is set aside for television broadcasting, but may also provide other electronic communications services, such as telecommunications and data services. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture and the Church have jointly drawn up a plan for the award and award of concessions in such a network. It's an announcement from the Stortinget that NRK's digital broadcasts will cover the entire population in the long term. The NRK cannot deactivate the analogue broadcasts until the digital broadcasts have a satisfactory coverage and the vast majority of viewers have obtained the necessary receiver equipment. A rapid expansion of a digital network may mean that almost all viewers are provided with digital television, thus shortening the period of parallel broadcasting. This will significantly reduce the distribution costs of the NRK and improve the ability of the enterprise to meet the many challenges of digital television transition. A digital network is also the only realistic way to get digital transmission of NRK’s district supply. Another important consideration is that the NRK should be able to carry out its emergency tasks. In the big news about the media policy that the previous government announced last autumn, a model was added to the network, where the capacity of the network was allocated to those who provide the various services, mainly broadcasters. These would then work together to build up and operate the network. Rains from other countries indicate that this model is not the best. For example, Sweden has chosen this model, and there is a delay in the uprising of the people. The United Kingdom has chosen a model in which the capacity not allocated to public broadcasters is disposed of by one company, which then distributes the capacity to others according to guidelines from the governing powers. In Finland and Portugal, they will follow this pattern. The Post and Telecommunications Authority and the State Media Administration have been well advised to select the same model in Norway. On this basis, the Government assesses whether it should comply with the same principle in Norway, which will imply that the capacity will be allocated to an operator that will receive a concession after publication. This actor will then allocate the capacity according to the commercial principle, but at the same time based on the cultural, media and telecommunications policy principle that the Government will establish. In these principles, among other things. the following are taken into account: One third of the capacity of the network shall be nationwide. This capacity shall be reserved for the public broadcasters.Local TV must be secured with capacity.Two thirds of the capacity will be expanded to cover as much of the population as the market provides for the capacity of the network to be primarily used for television. Parts of the capacity will be used for other purposes, e.g. data and telecommunications services. A digital ground network may also be used for two-way Internet broadband connectivity.If the profitability of a digital ground network makes it inappropriate to charge any type of concession fee. The government has not reached its final conclusion. We now want to send this setup out to the general audience. Once we have all the views, it will take the final position. In parallel with the hearing, alternative forms of distribution will also be provided. Finally, on 10 December 1971, the Stortinget took the following decisions: «Norwegian National Broadcasting may initiate systematic colour television test broadcasts from the turn of the year 1971/72 with a view to launching regular broadcasts in 3 years’ time.» I now note that we still have colour television, but there is no decision on a permanent system. And I expect that there would be no need for any new formal decision, unless the majority in this room thinks otherwise. Of course, if it is desirable, I will come back with proposals for decisions. I look forward to an exciting debate on the future of the NRK. I hope this debate isn't just being held in this room, but in the media and not least in most people's minds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e376	The President proposes that the statement be discussed at a later meeting, and we will see from the discussion whether there is a need for a further decision. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e390	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for main speakers from each party group and for members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that access be granted to a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e397	The debate on foreign policy is also increasingly marked by individual issues requiring rapid and strong positions. One day, the question may be whether you are for or against the United States, or how strong you are for or against the United States. The next day you have to be for or against globalisation. Foreign policy debate is becoming more and more domestic political debate, on a case-by-case basis, from day to day. Everything passes in revision without an internal context. However, more than in any other area, there is a need to discuss broad lines and to deal with the major developments. It is necessary to be aware that events create history and new patterns to which we must relate, such as: when the Berlin Wall fell. It was then said that this would create a whole new Europe. Those were the first days and the first weeks. But then it didn't happen that much, and then many began to say that this might not be so historic anyway. Now we can say that this event just led to what was said in the first few days, it created a whole new Europe. The enlargement of the EU and NATO began. The euro is being introduced today. We have had a common foreign and security policy and a common policy on justice and police in the EU. Now the situation is that ten new countries can become members of the EU, so that the EU can cover the whole of the European continent, so to speak. We are facing a new extension of NATO. Many people argue that the United Kingdom can join the euro, that Sweden may come after it, and that it may also apply to Denmark. In Denmark, there has been almost a revolution on the left-hand side of policy over the past few weeks. The head of the Socialist People's Party, Holger Nielsen, and Keld Albrechtsen, the EU rapporteur of the Unity List, the list that was just adopted against the European Union, is now in place to remove the reservations that it has made in relation to the cooperation in defence and security policy and police and judicial cooperation, because, in their view, these reservations – and I quote from the Official Journal of Berlin on 4 February this year – ‘are preventing Denmark from taking part in essential decisions and tasks in the European Union, which we should have a direct influence on and even have a clear interest in influencing’. Holger Nielsen correctly states that the reservation against participation in police and judicial cooperation and in foreign and security cooperation ‘blocks Danish interests, which no one could predict when the reservations were written in 1992’. I am making this point in order to realise that it is creating a new Europe, not only by the fact that the whole continent is gathering in the European Union, but also by the fact that all political directions are gathering around the European Union and that the EU is the framework for political work and for democratic debate and competition between the different ideologies and parties, just as our political system is the framework for democratic competition and debate between the different political directions. This is something of a profound history that has happened on the European continent. The second event that, in my opinion, is going to create the same profound foreign policy effects, is the one we're all talking about, September 11. And here, too, we were told in the first few days that this would just lead to huge changes, but then eventually many people have started to say that it might not lead to so much change anyway. I think the same thing is going to happen as a result of this historic event that happened after the fall of the Berlin Wall, that we are facing major changes in the world as a result of this. They will affect our foreign policy framework conditions as much as the fall of the Berlin Wall did, and we'll see it in ten years maybe. Firstly, I believe that the recognition is already spreading – it was there a lot before – because we are all vulnerable and in the same boat. This will be a new starter and a beloved opportunity for anyone who will fight to strengthen the global institutions. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just emphasised that. Secondly, the world will not accept that violence and terrorism belong to the 21st century. The world community has the right to intervene against States supporting terrorism. The right to humanitarian intervention is even higher on the foreign policy agenda. We are moving towards a UN that is not only to ensure the security of states, which is enshrined in the UN Charter, but which is also to guarantee the rights of individuals, and that the UN has the right to intervene in the internal affairs of States if individual rights are trampled on. Thirdly, just as the fall of the Berlin Wall gave support to the assembly of Europe, and that it was the fundamental thing that happened, in my opinion on 11 September, to make the fight against poverty the most important thing of the 21st century – not because terrorism fights for the poor, but because the desperate situation of poor people is in, feeding desperate actions. This has brought more and more eyes up for. I want to say, if there is something to be criticised by the United States, it is not that the country took up the fight against terrorism, but that in this situation the country goes to a historic military armaments to win the war against terrorism, without taking up the fight or starting a war against poverty. Poverty is an unrelenting bomb that we must all get at the top of the foreign policy agenda. There is a great deal of consensus about most of what the foreign minister said. However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had no idea how Norway is going to deal with the consequences of the major changes in foreign policy that are now taking place, firstly the impact of the Europe for Norway Assembly, and secondly how we are going to deal with the major agendas that are now emerging globally — also operational and practical. As a result of September 11, we are going to see a new partnership between the EU, Russia and the United States, and I believe that here we will also see that the EU will play an important role in the intersection of these. It is possible that NATO's role may be weakened. The role of the EU will then be further strengthened. Let me do more concrete work here. We see that the EU is now making a partnership with Russia, including: in energy policy, which will directly affect us. Russia’s role as energy provider for the United States will become more important after 11 September, as both have gained increased influence in Central Asia, where oil exists. The role of the Middle East and the role of OPEC may be impaired or disrupted. This may have consequences for oil prices and thus directly affect us. There is no doubt that it is a major challenge for us to be outside the EU when all this forms, including: in the interests of our gas policy. What will happen to another important resource, the fish, if Iceland decides to apply for membership? What will happen to the EEA when the EU will cover almost the entire European continent, and there will be three small EFTA countries left on the other side? I say this because I find it unsustainable that the foreign minister's answer is to show that the government commits suicide if it should begin to analyse the consequences of this during the ageing period, therefore it cannot do so. But I believe that as a country, we need to deal with these major changes that are underway, which are the aftermath of the fall of the Berlin Wall. The second thing I miss is the Government's operational policy on poverty reduction. How will the Government deal with the major issues raised at the Financing Conference on Development? Is it satisfied with the non-obligatory wording contained in the preliminary document on the financing of the assistance? Will it address global taxes to finance the global institutions, such as: a tax on foreign exchange trade, such as: a tax on arms trading? What does the Government think about the cancellation of foreign debt? How, at all, has the Government intended to deal with the major issues that now arise at the important United Nations Conference, which is just addressing the main issue of the 21st century, the fight against poverty? It is good with fine words, but concrete action is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e439	There has traditionally been a broad consensus between the Workers' Party and the Right in foreign policy. It has been essentially, I think, of the good. The events of 11 September naturally did not appeal to this. Meanwhile, the distance to SV's foreign policy became increasingly clear. After the Foreign Minister's statement on Tuesday, he was almost embraced by SV's leader Kristin Halvorsen for his warning to the United States. My question to the representative Igland is whether he agrees with Petersen's warning to the United States in relation to Iraq, and in that case whether he thinks it is a dilemma that SV so cordially applauds, especially considering the SV's position on the battle that has so far been waged against international terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e444	I think it's a much bigger cross of thought that SV can take different points of view from day to day and not be taken into consideration in the foreign policy debate, and it's because of what I said in the introduction that you are now dealing with a matter-by-case and without any internal context. SV was among those who strongly advocated not going to military action in Afghanistan, precisely because it would strengthen the Taliban regime. Then the United States went to action, the Taliban regime fell, and I think we can later see that it was absolutely necessary that something be done, and that one could not negotiate a solution with such a regime. And then you just forget all that was said, and then the next thing is going to be attacking the United States. I believe, for my part, that there is a need for an internal context in what we are doing. We who supported the fact that it was necessary to go to military action in Afghanistan, we can calmly, and, in my opinion, with relatively high authority, conduct discussions with the United States on what should be the follow-up to this. I think that's what Jan Petersen did: come up with Norwegian views on how to deal with Iraq, possibly Iran and others. In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary that we do, and I am absolutely convinced that the United States also respects the fact that we have such a sensible dialogue. But we don't jump from case to case, and we have to lead a foreign policy line that can last over time. That's what I mean was in Jan Petersen's posts, and I share the opinion that he had there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e453	The analysis made by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the situation in Norway was interesting to listen to and not difficult to join. Now, however, we are in the somewhat special situation that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee was the Minister of Foreign Affairs' predecessor, even a very short time ago, and in that capacity he presented a European communication on behalf of his government. The European message was, whether I should give a simple characteristic, a purely descriptive matter it described the facts, but without laying any leadership or political ambitions of any kind. Most of the picture taken by the current committee leader was also present at the time, and it was relatively easy to carry out the same analysis, with the exception of – of course – the events that have unfolded since 11 September. However, with regard to Europe’s situation, the picture was much the same. It must be acknowledged, however, that with the composition of the Great Britain today, it is difficult to imagine any government going out of this process which would have significantly greater scope for action on the issue of any Norwegian membership request in the EU than the government we currently have. Therefore, it must be allowed to ask the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: why did not the former Minister for Foreign Affairs have greater ambitions at the time he was in office, and what makes ambitions much greater after he became in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e464	I guess the answer to this is that the description that Inge Wages now gives is not correct. There is a great deal of convergence between what the previous government said about the very concrete challenges we are now facing as an EEA country in relation to the EU and what the new government has presented – that is essentially the same. However, we wrote in the European Communication that it was necessary to have the freedom of action to analyse the larger issue, namely whether Norway would again address the issue of EU membership and that it might be necessary to have it on the agenda during the current enlargement period. And it must be allowed to inform us that it was actually I who took the initiative that this was programmed by the Workers' Party at our national meeting. It was unanimously adopted and included in our programme, and it was included in the European Communication. So here's a pretty big difference. We say that we may need to re-examine our relationship with the European Union. There may be situations, even situations that we don't know today, that may make it necessary. Let me ask: if, for example, Iceland suddenly applied for membership, does it not matter to us, as Europe's largest fishing nation? Is it that way that we can't take that question up to another discussion, because then the current government will commit suicide? The fall of the Berlin Wall was a great surprise for most, and most thought it would not happen. And then I'm of the opinion that we should have some openness so that there may be new surprises in the current period of greatness that make it necessary to have freedom of action, and it was formulated by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e474	It is good that we can participate in the debate between the Progress Party and the Labour Party. To that I would just say that in SV we do not jump on a case-by-case basis, but we are consistently critical of bombs as a solution to war. But then went to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I thought he was doing well for the development of Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. There's also another side to this. It has been found that Norway can play a central role in various ways outside the EU. We see this, not least in the current crisis in Zimbabwe, where Norway had a more neutral role and in a way could take over the role of the EU. Does the Foreign Affairs Committee lead these positive sides by standing on a more independent line, that is, outside the European Union? The representative of Jagland was also in this area with closer cooperation between the EU, Russia and the United States. Then it may be that small countries other than Norway come into some sort of squeeze. With the enormous resources we have, with a more neutral role, we can represent countries that are not even land, for example. Chechenia? Can we contribute there in relation to some people and some countries that are trying to fight for their nation-state, with which we have very good traditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e483	I am most open that in certain areas we can have a freedom of action in foreign policy that we might not have had if we were a member of the European Union. It's necessary to think through it all the time. Now the representative Jacobsen Zimbabwe mentioned, and that might be a point. But we're always going to have to discuss where it is that we get the most influence. And regardless of whether we are a member of the European Union or not, it is quite obvious to me that we should have influence over the big issues in the world, and we must go our way to talking to the European Union, have a dialogue with the European Union. It concerns everything from funding assistance to the situation in the Middle East. What could have been done in the Balkans without the EU being a pooling political instrument for Europe? What kind of job could we have done there without close and good cooperation with the EU? It's necessary to think two thoughts at once. I would like to stress that Jacobsen has a point, and as long as we are outside the EU, it is clear that we should use the advantage we can have in that position. However, I would not recommend that Norway put all of its foreign policy cards on it, because then we can draw on the essential interests of Norway in foreign policy. All in all: when it is said that small states can get in trouble, the situation shows the reverse that the European Union is precisely the voice of the small and the minority, for those who are discriminated against in Europe, whether in Turkey, Yugoslavia, Hungary or elsewhere. Only look at those to be addressed now, which requirements are set by the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e493	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e496	First, in the extension of the small exchange of lines with the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, let me make it clear that in general I have a reserved relationship to suicide and do not consider it commendable in any context. That's why I also find reason to make it clear that what is often called the Government's suicide paragraph does not imply that there is a mutual commitment to suicide. It would also be real. On the other hand, it has been said, based on solid experience in Norwegian policy over quite decades, that the parties are aware that at the moment one of the parties insists on making the issue of a membership request a current issue, the other parties are free to assess the situation and possibly terminate the government cooperation without any reason to evade each other. It does not, of course, preclude the occurrence of situations during this ageing period that make it necessary to take a stand for entirely new political realities even in the short term. - Enough about that. ‘Norway is a small country in the world’. It is one of the most classic speeches that has fallen from this pulpit in a foreign debate, and it is assigned to a former Prime Minister — rightly or wrongly. But it's actually a pretty useful reminder to ourselves because in some context we tend to pretend that we were something completely different. Norway is actually a small country in the world. In his foreign policy statement, the Foreign Minister mentioned two personal names: Fridtjof Nansen and Carl Joachim Hambro. It's a pretty useful thinker because it draws up some historical perspectives. Fridtjof Nansen represented one line of Norwegian tradition, the heroic one, which assumes that there are no limits to what individuals can accomplish if they – I had said very much – have no inhibitions. Peacekeeper Nansen established himself as a separate state institution and issued passports for people without citizenship, or the Nansen passport. He had no authority for that in any place – in any legislation. However, travelling in certain parts of Europe, which, when they hear that they come from Norway, can still run into people, saying that they owe their existence to the individual Fridtjof Nansen. It's a useful reminder, because it's a line, the humanitarian line, in our Norwegian tradition that it's worth taking care of. The line associated with the name C.J. Hambro is of a different nature, because it is the real-world policy line, which necessarily also needs to be present – not least in the foreign policy of a small country. C. J. Hambro was unusually early compared with both his Norwegian colleagues and his international parliamentary colleagues when it came to seeing the need for the world to develop legal and political systems in which countries voluntarily undertake to respect the legislation being developed. Therefore he made a very great commitment to the work of the League of Nations. Now we all know that the work of the League of Nations did not bring about all the world of political results. It must be said that the concrete political results were very, very modest. But in that work lay the germ of development of what has become the United Nations after the Second World War. The United Nations also has its shortcomings in resolving political conflicts in this world, we all know that. But today there is certainly full agreement, across party divisions, that it is literally a vital tool for resolving conflicts in the world. When Norway is currently taking the chair of the Security Council – as far as I know tomorrow – it may be a useful reminder to ourselves that, by virtue of our tradition and as a small country, we have a particular reason to take full advantage of the possibilities offered by the United Nations system. That is why I think it is outright thoughtless when a party in this Chamber goes out and criticises the Minister for Foreign Affairs because he does not desavow the work of the United Nations to force Iraq to respect international law rules in relation to arms production. I hope it's a thoughtlessness. It must be in everyone's interest, also in the interest of the United States, that the UN should follow up its own decisions and give power to those decisions if it is necessary to gain respect for the decisions. 11 September 2001 opens a new phase in international policy thinking in many ways. There I fully agree with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with the small reservation that I do not think it should be presented in such a way that there are single events, whether that is the fall of the Berlin Wall or 11 September 2001, which is the cause, rather these events are the symptoms and clarification of where the real problems lie. The real problems in today's world lie in the fact that security policy is no longer an intergovernmental issue alone. Security policy has gained a much wider content, because the threat today does not come primarily from superpowers. The threat today comes from hard-to-identify conspiracies of people who have some conviction that they believe they have the right to use any means to trump their beliefs. The qualitative new thing about the terrorist attack in New York on 11 September 2001 was not that many civilian lives have been lost, it has happened before. It has also happened in contexts where more civilian human lives have been lost than what happened on September 11. The qualitative new thing is that this happened by individuals planning and deploying civil aviation, of all things, and innocent hostages to carry out a meaningless demonstration attack on randomly selected civilian victims. There's something qualitative new in history. Therefore, there is every reason why Norway continues to put all its strength behind the work that needs to be done to prevent similar events in the future. There is every reason for Norway to stress its support both to the United States and to all other countries that have expressed their view of this threat and intend to do all that is possible to prevent similar events in the future. Let me finally comment on what is currently the biggest challenge for Norway, as a small country in the world. The biggest challenge is that we have chosen a solution of our own free will in relation to the development of our own continent, which places great limitations on ourselves – not on others, but on ourselves. It means that we've kind of put ourselves in a situation where we're static, while our surroundings are dynamic. It's a cost that we've voluntarily imposed on ourselves. Of course, within the self-imposed limits, any Norwegian government has to do everything that can be done to compensate for it, and to ensure that Norway does not get into the unfortunate situation that we are falling between the chairs, that we are neither particularly interesting to the United States, nor particularly interesting to the rest of Europe, and that what we have so far put our security on, namely NATO cooperation, also falls between the chairs. Because it is clearly something that will not only not be in Norway’s interest, it will also be a direct threat to Norway’s interests. I believe that all parties in this Chamber, regardless of the history of the issue of Norwegian membership in the EU, must take inwards, think through and come out with clear points of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e514	No salary ended the article a little before the conclusion came, because then the president got up. He stopped noticing the clear conclusions of the dilemma facing Norway. I offer a few more minutes to draw the conclusion that was notified from Inge Wohnung. On the basis of the opening of his contribution, I got the impression that the works of agreement that Norway has — the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement, etc. - is sufficient for Norway. Or the second interpretation from the introduction may be that the government party will enter into an assessment and draw a clear conclusion, reconsidering Norway’s relationship with the EU during this process of enlargement, and that it will do so in all its friendships. I am not quite sure what is actually the conclusion in the Inge Wohnungspost, whether he only announces that this conclusion can come during the period, and that there will be a friendly debate in the Government that will lead to the Government also perhaps coming out with a clear conclusion on reconsidering Norway’s relationship with the EU, or perhaps not, or whether Inge Wohnung already has a clear conclusion on this issue. – The President will certainly give the floor to Inge Wohnung, so that we can reach the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e521	Then the President will do it – Inge Wohnning.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e524	It was a generous offer, and I'll assume a friendly offer. Now I stopped with a well-advised mind where I stopped, because I recommended that you think before you draw the conclusion – it is not certain that it is practice in all parties. That's why I really assumed what I said, that all parties in this room, regardless of the history of the EU's membership issue, have reason to reconsider and think about the situation we are now in. I assume that the Workers' Party also did so at the time when they had government power and had the opportunity to put matters on the agenda, which is why it was not concluded that a new round of membership discussions was being held. After all, in my opinion, it would be the stupidest thing we could do, too, to force it forward, because the only thing that one could possibly achieve in that way was to make another reprisal of the notion we have presented, to little joy for the outside world – and, at my discretion, also to little pleasure for ourselves – in 1972 and 1994. I assume that no responsible party may wish, that Norway, as a nation, will take the position that we will once again implement the heavy equipment necessary to carry out a process of negotiation in Brussels, and then report back after half a year or three or a whole year that ‘unfortunately, it does not suit us anyway’. I assume that the representative of Blankenborg does not look at such a scenario with particularly positive eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e531	The right has historically been positive to free trade, and as I see it, it's a positive feature of the party. There is currently a debate on trade in fish and agricultural products to the EU. Some organisations related to the fishing industry have wanted a link between fisheries and agricultural negotiations in order to achieve the best possible conditions for trade in fish. The Director of the NHO, Finn Bergesen, has supported this. Such a link may result in less regulation and protectionism for agriculture, but there should probably be a positive benefit for the Right. My question is: Will the Right contribute to such a link in the fisheries and agriculture negotiations with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e540	In general, the Right is not a hot follower of the clutch trade. I do not think the issue is exactly where the representative, Höglund, assumed that this is a matter that Norway decides, or where the initiative is on the Norwegian side to establish such a link between different industries. I guess we have to look at that initiative on the other side. For it is in all negotiations that there are two parties, and it is not the one party that defines the issue, it does the parties together. And it should not be overwhelmingly imaginative – for those who know Norway’s relationship with the EU in these areas of fisheries policy and agricultural policy – to imagine that the other party is going to impose on us the problem whether we want it or not. So I think the representative, Mr Höglund, can take it easy. This issue will be forced into Norway, and we will be forced to deal with it whether we like it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e545	I must admit that I think it will be at the border of the pathetic when you hear this debate between the Labour Party and the Right about who is most EU-friendly. Both problems are that the majority of Norwegian people would not want the product they want to sell. One has tried to scare the Norwegian people in their knees twice before, and it has not worked. And there's nothing to suggest per. now that it will be better to succeed in the future. But then to the speaker. Right-wing ambition for Norwegian EU membership is well known. In view of the much-mentioned maritime murder paragraph, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is very concerned about the issue of the EU. I assume that the representative's salary may be somewhat more frivolous. I would therefore like to poke a little in the Right EU view. There are two processes of an overall nature in the EU. One is the enlargement of the EU, and that is what we talk about most in Norway. The second process is the deepening of the Union. There is a lot of talk about the question of depression in the Union for the time being, because it's just about what union it is that we're actually going to look forward to, and what we're going to deal with. There is considerable disagreement within the Union as to the direction to be taken by the Union. So my question to the representative for Wage is: Which EU is it that Right wants to report Norway into? Is this the federal EU? Is there an EU where the national State still has a significant role? Or is it a multi-speed EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e554	The answer is yes. The right view is as it has been: it is rather unfortunate that Norway has put itself in a position where we have no influence whatsoever on the most dynamic political project in recent history, namely EU cooperation. None of us are given to know how this cooperation is going to develop in the future, but of that I do not draw the conclusion that Norway should therefore remain in the gallery until the end result is seen – and then, if necessary, consider moving into the twig apartment in the European house after everyone else has built it. I think that is a fairly low level of ambition on the part of Norway. In fact, we're a small country, but as small as the Center Party wants, we don't have to do it. I don't think either the Right Party or the Workers' Party have any particular urge to ‘scream the Norwegian people in their knees’. On the other hand, I recorded that in the last election campaign, the Centre Party made hectic attempts to scare people into the hand – by updating the EU question again. There was no deafening success – I registered – and I think the Norwegian people did right when they took it with quite a lot of sense. It is my framework seriously when I say that I believe that all parties in this Chamber have good reason to think through their relationship with what is happening in European policy, again. And I also think – if I'm going to give a good advice back – that there's no party that has more reason to do that than the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e567	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e571	The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his statement on Tuesday to describe the situation and the uncertainty we experience after 11 September. And so the longer that goes after September 11, the more we realize how significant these events have been. The fight against international terrorism has naturally marked the foreign policy situation in recent months. There have been resolute actions, primarily led by the United States, but with broad international support. The Taliban regime in Afghanistan has been eliminated and, hopefully, terrorists who could operate from Afghanistan have also been hindered in their actions. 11 September brought large parts of the world together, and it is worth noting the geopolitical changes that are about to get stuck as a result. But also the willingness and ability to react quickly and resolutely have given clear signals that there are no hiding places for people and organisations who want to crack us with terror. In Norway, there was a broad majority behind the Norwegian attitude to support the actions carried out, and we participated through our cooperation in NATO. As a NATO member, we showed the necessary solidarity with an ally who had been subjected to enemy attacks. The actions against the Taliban regime and the terrorists who hid there must be said to have been reasonably successful, and gloomy divinations were shamed. The scepticism toward the United States that we experienced, among other things. Here in the Stortinge last autumn, was not surprising, but nevertheless shows that not everyone sees it as just as natural to be allied with the United States. In Europe, some forces will, for example: France, that Europe should have a more independent line and free itself a little from the transatlantic ties. We will strongly warn against this. All the experience suggests that it's the United States we have to trust in difficult situations. Unfortunately, only the United States has the resources to secure our freedom. At home, the upsurge in NATO and US cooperation has generally been strong. This we hope to continue. We hope we don't experience any line break in that way. Although international terrorism has now been seriously broken, few think it is broken. There are still regimes that see themselves earned running rights for people like Osama bin Laden. That's why it's natural that the fight against international terrorism continues, not because it's easy and comfortable, but because we want to prevent us from experiencing a day like the one we experienced on 11 September last year. Combined with the terrorist threat, we are also threatened by totalitarian states without respect for international law and law. These are countries with no democracy and human rights — which are ticking bombs in relation to their neighbours and their region. First in the number of such states is Iraq, a nation that has shown contempt for all under Saddam Hussein's rule. He has assaulted his own people in a great way and went to war against his neighbors. He has systematically built up large stocks of chemical weapons and blocked any cooperation with UN weapons inspectors. He has clear UN resolutions he will comply with, but shows no interest in cooperating. Saddam Hussein's international popularity became evident when extremist Jörg Haider was used to justify the Baghdad regime. The United States has pointed to the threat Iraq poses, and the longer Iraq can operate without interference, the greater the threat. The United States assesses the need for action or action against Iraq in addition to the sanctions in force. The Party of Progress considers such an assessment to be appropriate. We think we've been patient enough for a long time and have learned that yielding is a bad thing. It is therefore surprising when the Foreign Minister, in his presentation, warns the United States of America against actions directed against Iraq because it can break the good community of allies. The Progress Party believes it is essential to maintain the solid and broad alliance that was built after 11 September. This alliance had clear objectives and – as we see it – it still has, and we believe it is wrong for Norway to distance itself from supporting any action against one of the greatest threats to peace and democracy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that only a broad and sustained international pressure on Baghdad will benefit. It's been tried, and there's nothing to suggest that this pressure means anything to change the situation. I'm going to stay in the same area a little bit more, namely in the Middle East, where the situation is very difficult and can seem hopeless. It is to hope that out of this hopelessness there may be opportunities for dialogue. The recent initiative from Saudi Arabia may be such an opportunity to break up some of the stuck situation that exists. Only that central Arab states will engage and move towards Israel should be taken as a positive signal. And if Israel were to say yes to evaluating Saudi Arabia's proposals, then Saudi Arabia should also have a responsibility to dampen the violence among Palestinians. The situation in Zimbabwe has gradually become absurd. We're witnessing a head of state who doesn't scold any means to maintain power. The fact that Norway has been supporting the Mugabe regime for many years tells us that the criticism of the use of aid in the 1980s and 1990s by the Progress Party was correct. The choice is probably already so corrupt by Mugabe that the possibility of a fair choice almost equals zero. We understand the EU sanctions and repatriation of electoral observers. We believe that Norway should follow the EU sanctions, which are aimed at the elite in Zimbabwe. However, we have a greater understanding that if the electoral observers are safe, they will remain safe. South Africa has a special responsibility with regard to Zimbabwe, and we regret that President Mbeki has not been clearer with regard to Mugabe. We think it could contribute a lot in a positive direction. Here, Norway should be involved in pushing South Africa to realize that a corrupt dictator regime in Zimbabwe is not in the interest of Africa or South Africa. When we're in South Africa, it's been recorded with joy that Nelson Mandela has criticised President Mbeki's handling of the AIDS disaster, for it has long been known that the president's involvement with the AIDS victims has been, to put it mildly, little hopeful. Let's hope that Mandela's criticism can contribute to a positive change. Back to Europe, where changes and challenges are many. The Progress Party agrees with the Government’s position on the conduct of an active European policy. We believe that this is absolutely essential in order to ensure important Norwegian interests. The enlargement of the EU, which may include 10–12 countries, can come within two–three years and present new challenges in several areas, and one of the important ones is what it will mean for the sale of Norwegian fish. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, today we have free trade agreements for fish with the candidate countries to the EU. It will be a challenge and a goal to maintain it after countries become part of the EU. In parallel, of course, we want better conditions for trade in fish to the EU in general, and this must be a priority task for the Government. But it is clear that it can be contradictory when, on the one hand, we argue clearly for free trade in fish, but refuse to regulate trade in agricultural products. We therefore have a great deal of understanding and will accept, and even encourage the Government to link negotiations on fish and agriculture. This will also be positive in relation to the WTO process and in relation to the Third World. We believe it is impossible and totally unrealistic to imagine that Norway can maintain a protected agricultural sector much longer. A freer market for agricultural products will be of great pleasure to consumers. And if we can achieve a lot in the way of free trade on fish, we will have secured the interests of one of our most important industries. We therefore believe that the Government should already initiate a parallel process with the EU by linking the negotiations between fish and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e616	The representative, Høglund, may have presented the European political platform of the Progress Party when he addressed the problem of the link between fish and agriculture. But I assume that the party has a broader platform to stand on than was the case in European policy. Most of the parties presented some kind of platform last year when the European message was discussed. The Progress Party, through the representatives of Gundersen and Danielsen, may also have done so, but it was a dubious success. In other areas, I am a little uncertain as to whether what was then said is still in debt. Their conclusion is that Norway should buy aircraft in the United States, and of that there will not be much of a European political platform either. Secondly, I have listened to the fact that the leaders of the party have almost abdicated with regard to meaning about the EU, because it is a matter which one should leave to the people in a referendum, which one of course should have. But if you're busy with leadership, it might also be important to say something about what an actually means. Here we have heard today – and also before – that some people believe that there are so many changes in Europe that it may be necessary to re-examine Norway’s relationship with the EU and, if necessary, to put matters into a new referendum. Can Morten Høglund, on behalf of the Progress Party, and not on behalf of himself, say whether there is also a platform on which the Progress Party stands, that the Progress Party will also help us to produce that kind of analysis, and, if so, on the basis of that conclusion, that changing Norway’s relationship with the EU could be relevant and that the Progress Party will take an active part in such a debate? Or does the Progress Party still abdicate with regard to having any views on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e625	The Progress Party has opinions on Europe and would like to take part in a European political debate. We think it is quite natural that we are dealing with Europe and the changes that are taking place there. When it comes to membership, it's very good. The Progress Party has programmed our position for this four-year period, and it is clear that we do not support any application for EU membership during this period. Then the changes that are now taking place, and the program management the Progress Party is going to have to move forward to the next big shot, determine how we will deal with it. But we are very clear – as Blankenborg also correctly said – that this is a question that the people are going to decide. At the same time, it is important that we have an ongoing debate, and that debate we will be taking part in, without, in that way, viewing it as the prime task of politicians in this matter of giving leadership in how the people will decide. But for this four-year period, we're very clear: we're saying no to a new application now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e632	The representative of Höglund reiterated the criticism of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he expressed in a press release yesterday concerning the section of the Foreign Minister's statement that was about Iraq. I therefore think it is important to remember that the US Government does not have the position that the representative of Höglund assumes it has. There is still an open debate in the United States, which the Foreign Affairs Committee had the opportunity to observe when we visited Washington recently, where there is a significant disagreement – as is common in democratic societies – about which line to follow. It is also quite clear that some immediate imminent military action is quite unimaginable for many reasons. As far as I have understood, most people who have knowledge of what would be required for it believe that it will be possible in one year's time, probably only significantly later. In such a situation, it is unlikely that Norway, as Chairman of the Security Council, will actively follow up the resolutions adopted by the United Nations in the past and seek new ways to increase the pressure on Iraq to achieve what the United Nations has laid down. At that point, there is no disagreement between Norway and the United States. There is no bulwark on the resolutions adopted by the United Nations vis-à-vis Iraq. So just a little follow-up to Blankenborg’s question: I don’t want to use the term ‘abdise’, because it assumes that you are sitting on a throne from which it is possible to descend, and it doesn’t, of course, do the Progress Party – not so far. But it's interesting to note that evolution in this world doesn't always go as you wish. From the Norwegian point of view, it is quite clear that there are no cracks in the relationship between the United States and Europe. But when the EU takes over more and more of the tasks NATO has actually had, do you have to deal with them, or are you not?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e641	And then finally, well, of course we are, we have to relate to what's going on. Now, however, we feel that regardless of that, any Norwegian membership of the EU is not a matter of urgency – now there has been a change, and then we jump on the train – it must happen after a previous thorough debate. That's why our position in this four-year period is very clear and okay, and something that I'm very comfortable with. With regard to Iraq's relationship with sanctions and possible actions, it is true that the United States has not concluded at all. What I was trying to point out was that the Foreign Minister's statement put us in a form of coercion, where we already concluded that if the United States were to find out that there were actions you found right, we would almost have said no in advance. I found such an opinion unnecessary. One could have waited for the debate to take place and, of course, in the forums in which the Americans meet, put our views on the matter and got the information from the Americans that they wanted to discuss with us, and we had to want to discuss with them. So that was the time of this statement -- I haven't gone to defend any actions against Iraq now, but we're not going to reject it, as long as it's part of a debate where, among other things. The United States is leading.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e648	The representative, Høglund, has repeatedly criticised the Secretary of State for warning the United States against military operations against Iraq in recent days and in his speech today – even though he is now out there ruddering a little. My question is: how does the representative of Høglund think that bombing Iraq will strengthen the fight against international terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e655	The Progress Party and the undersigned have not taken up any bombing, and I explained how we looked at the Foreign Minister's statement, in my previous reply. When it comes to bombing as a tool, it is an extreme tool that is used in very special situations. We experienced it in the conflict with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. At that time it seemed that it was reasonably successful, without it being desired and the preferred means of action, but it was a necessary tool. SV did not want to be involved in the bombing. So we understand that we disagree about bombing as a general tool. Now no one is going to try to make me say that we want to bomb Iraq – I don't want to be in it – but we see it as clearly that we are now following the developments and the debate that are taking place, and keep the opportunities that may be there, open, for the purpose of changing the situation that is in Iraq – for the people of Iraq, for the neighbourhoods, for the security and stability of the area. And excluding all possibilities in advance, we find something strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e665	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e668	I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister in his statement stressed that there are many dilemmas in relation to the situation in Afghanistan. He kind of rode a good bottom for a good word change. The distribution does not really reflect the seriousness of the situation in Afghanistan, particularly as regards the situation of children and young people, who become the biggest losers in all wars. The organisation Leger without Borders reports that more and more children in Afghanistan are undernourished. The infant mortality rate has doubled since August last year, and there are more children in some refugee camps now than before. Borderless doctors say it directly: Afghan children die. We must take this seriously as the leadership of the donor country group. I have no reason to believe that we do not, but these most exposed victims of the war shall never be unsubjected. Norway must try to emphasise the precarious humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. This, of course, also implies the security situation, because it is the one that is so much the cause of the humanitarian crisis that has arisen. Certainly there will be enough food in Kabul, but it is impossible to transport it out, especially to the areas of northern Afghanistan under the current security conditions. Of course, this situation is marked by the fact that Afghanistan was forgotten after the Soviet Union moved out in 1989. The Taliban regime was gradually building up, the country has had a continuing drought, and they have also had international sanctions. Whatever we do now, we don't have to leave Afghanistan to ourselves once more, without international help. At least we have to learn from what has happened in Afghanistan in the last 20-30 years. We know the war costs about 20 to 28 billion dollars a month. It would be cheap to do both sewing and development cooperation, compared to such a sum. The big question is whether we can solve the always recurring problem when it comes to aid: can we get democracy for financial support? We may not be able to do so, but at least we can do something in Afghanistan that can in the long run make the Afghans and the world otherwise be proud of that country. We also know that if we trade the economy with democracy, we are in a dangerous way by demanding too much. Perhaps we have too much influence, while Afghanistan needs to be calm about developing policy. Overall, there must be a strength of 30,000 to 40000 people in order to secure the country, in the sense that it is safe to travel and to achieve a minimum of stability in political development. That's about the same number that the United Nations has in total out in peacekeeping operations. This shows the extent of the crisis in Afghanistan. UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme, is responsible for the operational and multilateral aid package, while the UN Special Envoy, Brahimi, will try to get this into political Afghanistan. These problems I believe the Foreign Minister is aware of, and he certainly has good will to do something about it. But there I think we can meet the wall, because now that CNN and other media are losing interest in the country, I'm afraid that the slow war is coming back, the slow war that is kind of invisible, which is not in question time, which is not in the media. And we must allow ourselves to ask: Is the war over in Afghanistan? Here I would like to quote from the United Nations' website: ‘How is the Afghan reality now? The media gives us two images. The first option is for Afghanistan to start rebuilding. The new government in Kabul, under the leadership of Karzai, and with military, economic and political support from the international community, is ready to start rebuilding the devastated country. The second option — which may be equally realistic — ‘is that Afghanistan is back where it was before the Taliban: the warlords control each of their regions, they fight each other, supported by their respective foreign sponsors. While civilians live in growing insecurity, hunger continues, refugees wait in their camps, drug traffic rises again, and bombs continue to fall in parts of the country.’ Could the war be coming into a new phase? It is documented from some quarters that the Taliban can be strong enough to launch a new war in parts of the country. It is also reported that the United States has begun bombing Afghan forces that are not Taliban supporters, but are part of the old warlord system in Afghanistan. General Richard Myers, Chief of Staff of the Americans of the region, says the war has begun. He says it to an Indian newspaper. This shows us that we have seen very close to the end of this conflict. I have great confidence that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government will put these things on the agenda, but I also think we must dare to go beyond what we normally do. We must dare to say from harder in the international forum that this is important. As the Foreign Minister makes clear in his statement, we are all obliged to contribute to the international legal order. And as I interpret it, the way to go is the United Nations. Now it is not possible to overlook that in many conflicts there is little interest and little willingness from the different parties to actually create peace. One example of this is, for example: Great Lakes conflict in central Africa. We were a delegation of four from the Swedish Foreign Affairs Committee who had the opportunity to be in Rwanda for a week. There we saw and met many politicians who had many opinions, but at all times no one showed any willingness to actually sit down at the negotiating table and find solutions. So you might ask the United Nations to bring in forces, etc., while a real run business as usual: a drive with mineral extraction, a drive with anything other than developing political structures for peace. We also saw in Rwanda that a long roadway might be able to get a court order from the genocide that was there in 1994. One of them's worked out about. 11,000 laymen, who will deal with and perhaps be able to judge about. 100 000 who are likely guilty of genocide. It shows a little bit of the dimension that they're radiating with, and that we have to do in every way. And then we go to the work of the Security Council: it was with pleasure I listened to the news this week that our UN ambassador took a statement with the Israeli fury of Palestinian property and said that this was incongruous with getting into a peace process. I assume that the good ambassador Kolby has received instructions from his political leaders and has taken the spoon in another hand, because when we look at what Norway has done in the Security Council, we have, in the SV's view, acted a little passively and taken too much care of the United States and Israel in relation to the Middle East conflict. We have made an effort to raise the conflicts in Africa on the agenda. Norway made a concrete contribution to preventing the premature lifting of the arms embargo against both Ethiopia and Eritrea a year ago. We were there with the committee on a visit, and saw quite clearly that the office has worked too far ahead of the presidency period that we are going to have in the Security Council. It now seems that there has been a signal that there should be even stronger pressure and that we should use the political content more. In one area, it seems that we have got something good out of the terrible that happened on 11 September last year, and it owes something to be done with the financing of terrorism, money laundering, tax havens and the transparency of bank accounts. Norway and other countries have for a long time had legal instruments against the laundering of proceeds from criminal offences, especially in the context of drug trafficking. The Financial Action Task Force has a leading role to play in ensuring that each country is able to take the necessary measures. With the terrorist acts in the United States, the need for insight into financial transactions has gained a new and more pressing dimension, and international cooperation in this area has been vitalised. Both Norway, the EU and the United States have provided for the prompt freezing of accounts and measures for greater transparency in transactions that a suspect may be linked to terrorist activity. Tax havens may play a key role in the financing of terrorism and progress has been made in international cooperation against them under the OECD regime. But in the United States and elsewhere, the perspective of anti-terrorism is strongly opposed to conservative financial interests, which are outright anti-tax and anti-transparency in international transactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e708	If one proposes that I should have the professional title representative after this debate, I shall consider it. There were many good aspects that emerged in the post that was made, and I am quite united in everything that was said about the humanitarian situation, the need to build civil society and the need to remedy the distress – both because it is really important in itself, and because it is important to prevent new conflicts. But we know that SV is very skeptical about using military means to achieve political goals. When it comes to Afghanistan, I understand that they were against the action and for the result, and that is to a good extent. But it's special American military use of power they're looking at with great concern, and that might be good reason for it. I know that this party is against NATO. We'll get our own NATO debate later, so that's where we'll deal with the question of NATO expansion. But there is also closer cooperation in Europe on military issues, and I am not quite sure what SV has to do with this. Do they support what is the line of the great majority that it is positive that Europe has cooperated more closely within NATO, of course, but then on the basis of a European agenda, on both defence policy and security policy issues? Does SV want this to happen, or does SV actually want a renationalisation of defence in Europe, so as to avoid this coordination under a NATO umbrella, possibly under an EU umbrella? Is there any better contribution to international security? Does it provide a better starting point for dealing with situations like those in Afghanistan, or as far as what we saw in Kosovo, where SV supports the action?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e717	Nobody enjoys more than SV and I that the Taliban regime falls faster than we thought; it's one of the greatest joys I've ever experienced. At least it got the war down on a level that I describe in my article. The war is very close above, but at least one received the level down. So the question of whether US military use of power is worse than any other military use of power. No, of course not. What is the problem with the war on terror that we have today is that in the shadow of the war on terror there is a huge assault, not least on our big neighbour in East, Russia – what they are doing to the Chechen people. There I'm going to agree that I've neglected, because if the Americans had done something similar to what the Russians do in Chechnya, there would have been a demonstration train from here to Molde, where I live. So I agree that the proportions aren't always there, but the media sets an agenda that doesn't involve us as much. The German Brigade was probably the first Norway to contribute after the war. Then we have had NATO debate, we have had EU debate, etc. SV has chosen to stand outside. We're also skeptical about the ESDP, but we didn't go against it when it was up last year. We are very sceptical about the main objective – what goes on in a so-called out of area strategy, which gives us the opportunity to operate completely elsewhere. Right there, we want the United Nations to have a mandate. But we see that having a defense, that is, being prepared to defend own territory, and not running out of area, is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e726	Norway has held a number of mechanistic roles over several years and subsequently gained competence in the brokering function in international conflict issues. It requires a closeness to the parties involved, and also that, in order to have that closeness, one often dampens – let's say – the criticism of the parties to the conflicts in which it is engaged. This leads to a regular criticism of casualty at home, and in particular we have registered it from SV. I must also add that this often gives an extra Norwegian dimension to foreign policy, where it can help other countries, but can also promote our own positions. And my question to the representative Jacobsen must then be whether it is correct that SV is against Norway maintaining and continuing its mercerial role, for example. in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e733	I have to admit that I have not fully understood the question. I cannot see with my best will that we have said something at all that could indicate that we do not want Norway to have a meclar role. That's exactly what we have stressed many times, that we may have failed to choose some other alliance partners than the other country has. I can assure the representative Vallersnes that SV will support all the possibilities Norway has to contribute in the form of the peace brokering role.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e738	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, said in his speech that Afghanistan needs peace to develop its policy. I agree. But his belief in money solving all problems, I don't share because I have no faith in it. There are many problems to solve in Afghanistan. We know, among other things: drug cultivation and the sale of a large amount of drugs to Europe. This must be put an end to, if necessary with power. Does the representative agree? As for the SV's views on the United States and the treatment given to the prisoners who are on the Guantánamo base, I would like to ask whether the representative thinks that these prisoners are worse off than those who are in the Rwandan prisons. It is also known that Rwandan prisoners are subject to international law and have been in prison for eight years without law and judgment. But we have not heard anything from SV about this. Is it just when it comes to issues in which the United States is involved, that SV is engaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e745	Afghanistan obviously needs peace, and Afghanistan also needs a lot of assistance. It's not money that's on it, so the Progress Party shouldn't be saved. They were very excited last fall, then they wanted 500 million in. instead of 200 million, or whatever it was. So to this with drugs and how to deal with it. We in the UK believe that the only way to get rid of drug cultivation is to get a fairer trading system in the world. For example, we believe. that UNCTAD, the United Nations Trade Organisation, may enter here. We can start talking about getting minimum prices of coffee, bananas, tea, etc., so that one can lure the peasants to produce what they themselves want to produce, rather than produce drugs. Good attempts at this in the triangle in Asia have shown that this works. So to this with the prisoners in Cuba. There we see quite clearly that the United States was willing to accept a little bit of criticism. They approved that the Taliban soldiers were "prisoners of war", prisoners of war, while the al-Qaeda people were not. Pressing them is useful. So in spite of the representative Steinsaker says, the United States heard; they were willing. They didn't follow the thread all the way out, but they had a piece on their way. A possible comparison between the prisoners in Cuba and those in Rwanda I see no reason to have, there are two quite different ways. I can assure Stensaker that we are also willing to be with and criticise people other than the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e754	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e757	I thank Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen for a good deal on Tuesday. I share his analysis and his manufacture. I am particularly pleased with the focus he had on human rights, peace and reconciliation. We are facing many alarming situations and challenges. The basis of the Christian People's Party's foreign policy is and always has been that democracy, respect for human dignity and human rights apply to everyone. When we base this on our policies, we cannot be silenced when people are subjected to power and abuse. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister assures us that the situation in Afghanistan will be high on the agenda of the Security Council next month. Unfortunately, the CNN effect is already seeing itself in relation to Afghanistan. Media is no longer so concerned with the situation of the civilian population, now the most interesting situation in Iraq is. So, in fact, money is all about being a problem, and it's not like the representative Jacobsen actually said in the previous row. Several countries have failed to provide the assistance promised by Afghanistan. It's a shame. It is also a challenge for Norway now that we are the leader of the Afghanistan Support Group. I have great confidence that the Foreign Minister will follow it up in a good way. It's now the hard work is starting. The interim administration shall now be set up. There are now the different local warlords to gather for a government. There are now residents and refugees in need of humanitarian assistance. When the Foreign Affairs Committee recently traveled to Ottawa, Washington, and New York, it was interesting to note that both the Canadian and American heavy political environments and the institutions are constantly taking note of Norway's efforts in peacekeeping. This role was even more underlined in the UN. The Christian People's Party has a tradition of raising its eyes and looking beyond its own boundaries. We focus on the poorest of the poorest, on those who are the hardest victims of war and conflict. In itself, this focus has a intrinsic value by helping those who need it the most. But in addition to this, the work on human rights Norway gives respect and trust as a foreign policy actor. This role gives us access to power centers in Washington and the United Nations. To be a small country, as the representative for Wage said earlier today, Norway still plays a role and a significant role in some areas that are being noticed. I also learned on the trip to the United States more about the experience common Americans and politicians have of the situation after September 11. It has completely changed their agenda and assessment. In Norway, we probably haven't really taken this change of posture in the United States, and we probably have to try to recognize and understand how they think when we're doing our analysis. But close allies must also tolerate disunity. I strongly support the Foreign Minister when he warns the United States against attacking Iraq. It will destroy the international coalition that is now gathering. There is no doubt that Saddam Hussein is a despot, but a pressure against the regime that must now be made primarily through the UN. In the first place, we must work to ensure that the weapons inspectors have access to Iraq and have good employment. The fight against terrorism must take the lead both in the direction of the coalition that is built up, the alliance that now stands together against terror, and in the direction of the UN. Nevertheless, there is a paradox that it was only when President Bush's speech was held – with the threats – that Iraq began to talk again about opening the doors to the weapons inspectors, so unfortunately it seems that once again threats are helping. In this context, when we talk about the coalition, it's interesting to look at the play from Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia in relation to the Middle East. The proposal is for the Arab countries to approve Israel as a state, for Israel to withdraw from the Palestinian territories that have been occupied since 1967. It's an interesting suggestion, and it looks like it can get a lot of excitement. Last night, the EU discussed its security policy coordinator, Javier Solana, and Crown Prince Abdullah’s proposal, and Saudi Arabia decided that they wanted to implement the peace plan. The situation in the Middle East is alarming. There is reason to criticize Israel. Israel's military use of power towards the Palestinians is usually out of proportion to the situation. I also believe that the strategy of having seven days without the use of force was the wrong strategy. This gave a veto right to the fanatics. The groups who did not want peace could only do a terrorist action before the seven days had passed, thus preventing the peace process from continuing. But I also want to say that I think it's a paradox that Arafat has repeatedly rejected the possibilities he has had. He rejected Camp David's deal. He has now admitted that he knew of the smuggling of weapons. There is also a reason to believe that Arafat could do a lot more to stop the violence. This impression was reinforced after the committee meeting with representatives from the Palestinian self-government areas that we had when we were in the United States. I also wonder whether the EU and others have done enough to demand the admissions of Arafat and Arafat's actions, just as one might ask if the United States has done enough in relation to Israel. The Christian People's Party condemns terror in all forms, no matter when and where it might happen. The conflict cannot be resolved at the chosen time, but by confirming the negotiation and implementation of the Mitchell Commission's recommendations. In Madagascar, there is also an escalation of the conflict in the wake of elections to a new president. It's declared state of emergency, and there's some fear of civil war. Tonight, there were huge clashes between government and opposition fans. At least 14 people were injured in the capital. Independent reports have shown that it was a fake choice and that the opposition candidate probably got over 50 pst. opening in the first round of the elections. He had thus our legal president. The Supreme Court has decided that there should be a second election round, and one should now make sure that the second election round is not influenced by a trick, as was the first round. Norway has not at present been busy with electoral fraud and corruption in Madagascar. I get messages almost every day about the political situation of munitions living in Madagascar, and they're asking for an engagement from Norway's side. Norway has great confidence in Madagascar after over a hundred years of presence. Norway needs to take advantage of this and make its impact effective in order to ensure a free and fair choice in Madagascar with international observation. I'm worried about the many unstable and difficult situations around the world, and I have to admit that I can sometimes be discouraged. But when one hears how tough other politicians have it worth fighting for a fairer and more peaceful value, then we owe the jam to keep up the fight and intensify it. We have over the last few weeks received a number of reports on human rights violations and politically motivated violence in Zimbabwe. The opposition politicians who risk their lives in the forthcoming elections. I am pleased that Norway has chosen to send 21 value observers, so that they can participate and ensure that the options are as free and independent as possible. I hope that their presence may reduce the use of the selection in time for the selection. Amnesty International has asked parliamentarians in several countries to contact a representative of the opposition in Zimbabwe. The idea is that contacts with people in other countries can help to increase the security of the individual. So the opposition politicians in Zimbabwe are not going to give up. They believe in a democratic process. It's a happy example of how this can happen when we see the situation in Sri Lanka. Some of us in the Christian People's Party met yesterday Neela. She herself has been involved in the process of bringing about a peace solution, and she told us about the work for peace in Sri Lanka. On 19 September, in connection with some others, she arranged a demonstration in which they wanted to show that they wanted peace to come, and by that they were going to go out on the streets. Neela was afraid that no one would stand up, for it was only eight days after the terrorist attack in New York, but that day one million people went out on the streets of Colombo. Why? They wanted to show that they wanted peace. They were concerned about what the American Embassy in Colombo wanted to say, but when they got there, the entire embassy stood and was there demonstrating. I also congratulate the Government on its good work here. Now I see my speaking time is over. It was written about Europe here, but then I just showed the good message that has just been made by the Government. I'm open to discuss it later. So in relation to the representative Jagland said, the point I disagreed with when it came to the good posts of the leader Jagland, was that this government did not take the fight against poverty seriously. But that's what we'll get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e786	It has previously been mentioned here that Lars Korvald, Lilletun's party trap, said, "Norway is a small country in the world." But the fact that we are small doesn't mean that it's useless to influence or try to show the way. Policy is, of course, about influencing and showing the way, including in foreign policy. I believe that a prerequisite for a better and fairer world is that we have strong and good international organisations. UNESCO, WHO and UNAIDS are some of many organizations that do important work. But they are also examples of organisations that rely on financial support. I think the representative, Lilletun, agrees with that. But if we are to succeed in establishing strong and economically sustainable international organisations, we must also be willing to pay for them. I would therefore challenge the representative Lilletun to clarify what he and his party think about the so-called Tobin tax, or tax on arms trafficking as a tool for financing international organisations that are completely dependent on the good economy in order to carry out their important tasks in the best possible way. If the representative Lilletun opposes these concrete proposals, does he not see the need to find new sources of funding and does he not feel that the Government has a responsibility to help bring forward new proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e794	I agree entirely with Mr Eyeågen that we need strong international organisations, and that we need a resilient funding of them. It is sometimes difficult. Personally, I would also like to say that when the Tobin tax came, I had much sympathy for it. I have recorded that he who presented himself as a thought has probably reserved something more in retrospect with regard to whether it can be implemented. When the committee was visiting the World Bank, I asked questions about it, and they were probably also very doubtful as to whether it was practical to implement it. Therefore, I am not so competent that I dare say that we can go for it. On the other hand, I agree with the representative Eyeågen that we need to find viable arrangements. I don't want to stand here and say what kind of arrangements it should be, but it's a responsibility for the individual party in Stortinget. It is a responsibility of the Government to work with this in relation to the multinational organizations, so that there is no lack of money to prevent the international court, and that there is no lack of money to prevent the resilience of the organisations that we absolutely need more and more in a globalised value.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e803	Does the representative Jon Lilletun believe that negotiations without the use of power will solve the problems in Iraq? If it turns out that weapons of mass destruction are produced in the form of bacteriological, chemical or even nuclear weapons, will Norway remain passive and allow the United States to clean up for us? If other countries are threatening Europe by means of terror and weapons of mass destruction, will the representative Lilletun say that there will be enough of our withdrawal from Afghanistan? As the representative knows, the United States has not said that an attack on Iraq is planned, but that they follow the situation carefully day by day, and that if it turns out that weapons of mass destruction are produced that threaten both Europe and the rest of the world, they are prepared to stop this if they have to stand alone. The representative Inge Wohnning said in his speech here today that the threat of terrorists must be combated where it arises, and that any government must do what is necessary to stop such a threat. Does the representative Lilletun agree with this? And how does this harmonize with the Government's attitude towards the United States and Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e814	The example of Afghanistan, to which the representative just pointed out, is a good example of the need to have a process that brings a conclusion that can actually be put together when a fight against terrorism is to be waged. We need alliances across religions, across political systems, if we are to win this battle. The background for both the analysis of the Government and the analysis of the Christian People's Party is that it is unlikely that a first try another way, simply to intensify the work of getting back in the arms inspectors and getting to grips with these weapons that may exist, without having to go to war. It's quite right that in a number of cases, one needs to use power. That's not what's going on. The question is whether we're going to try to hold on to the fact that we need international negotiations the times we're going to use power in such situations, or whether there's someone who can throw himself up to be the ones who have the right to clean up here in the world. So I think we need to use power, but I think we need to fight poverty even more. There I quite agree with both what the Foreign Minister said, and that committee leader followed up with today. My challenge back to the Progress Party is that we need power, but we really need to create a fairer value. It is the best weapon in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e825	On the issue of the approval of the EU Children’s Food Directive, the Christian People’s Party has argued that one will not veto on the basis of what is referred to as an overall assessment, but mainly, it is said, on the basis of the fear of represals from the EU side. One's not really sure which, but a fear of counter-reactions. With regard to the patent directive, however, the Christian People's Party has said that they want veto, apparently independent of possible counter-reactions. So my question to the representative Lilletun is: Is it such that the Christian People's Party does not fear counter-reactions from the EU with regard to the patent directive, or is it such that the Christian People's Party is brave enough to ask for veto with regard to the patent directive, because one knows that one will be overrun by the Right in the government in that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e834	What should be clear is that Norway has a right of exception. There are exceptions for Norway and no veto for the Directive in general. At the same time, we know that in this agreement there is also a possibility for the EU to initiate counter-reactions. That is to say, for each directive, a thorough analysis of the disadvantages of the introduction of the directive must be carried out, as opposed to the risk of disadvantages of the counter-reactions. And then it wouldn't be so hard to understand and accept that you can come to different conclusions through different directives. In the Christian People's Party, we build on the fact that the trade unions have said that we want to mitigate the negative consequences in relation to the health of the measures that have been taken. Then we thought that putting whole Coast Norway in a risk phase because of possible counter-reactions would be a mistake. In the case of the Patent Directive, there is a fundamental question for the Christian People's Party. We see patents on life as so fundamentally important to us that we are willing to take a greater risk. It's that simple and so difficult. Otherwise, when it comes to the EU, I also allow myself to comment briefly on it now. Of course, it is the way the representative says that we should have an open mind and evaluate and analyse the situation, and of course it can also have consequences for your vision. I hope something is going to apply both ways, because it sounded like we were the only ones who had said no so far, who had to carry out these analyses. But it is not relevant for the Christian People's Party to join in and send an application during this period. It's in the program, and we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e847	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e850	The time has come to put an end to the myth of the Foreign Minister as a spokesman for his statement, namely that the EEA Agreement is a good agreement for Norway. This is the Central Party's biggest objection to what else is an explanation where we can join most. The Foreign Minister's emphasis on the importance of multilateral cooperation, a more nuanced attitude to the situation in the Middle East than what we have previously heard from the Government, the focus on Africa and the warnings related to military action against Iraq are the facts we can happily agree with. I come back to the fight against terrorism, the future role of NATO and a warning to weaken Norway's humanitarian profile. Let me first comment on the foreign policy issue there is the greatest disagreement in Norway, namely the EU case. The acceptance of the EU Children’s Food Directive by the government illustrates in a good way the situation in Norway in the EEA Agreement. There has been a cross-political agreement in Stortinget that this Directive should not be incorporated into Norwegian law. Norwegian children have a different diet than other children and may be harmed by excessive amounts of vitamins, as the directive puts it. The Directive not only sets maximum limits but also defines minimum values. This deprives parents of the possibility to choose products to which no unnecessary substances have been added. The nutrition authorities have warned against the directive and a very long negotiation process has been carried out with the EU. The EU would not grant exemptions, and the Government then had a choice, either to accept the Directive or to use the right to reserve, as authorised by the EEA Agreement. The government places EU loyalty on child health concerns and accepts the Directive. You spend 16 million. kr on so-called compensatory measures, but at the same time acknowledges that this is a worse solution than being exempted. The government sided with the precautionary principle and hoped it would go well. This is the EEA Agreement in a nut shell. Despite the fact that the Norwegian people have said no to EU membership, we have set ourselves up to end up in hopeless coercive situations. Norway must swallow away from directives, but we have minimal influence on their design. When the EU takes a hard stand against it, we bow down in fear of represals if we use the right of reservation that was often negotiated and which was used as a strong argument from the EEA's followers when the EEA Agreement was to be adopted. We have now reached a point where Norway must make a choice. The EEA Agreement was intended as a transitional arrangement until the yes-page thought it was a ‘error’ that occurred by people saying no to EU membership in 1972, would be corrected. The ‘error’ was not rectified in 1994. People wisely said no to membership, too. But we are left with an EEA agreement that we see more and more dramatic consequences of. We are so close to the European Union that we can actually talk about quasi-membership without political influence. Fortunately, nothing suggests that the Norwegian people have changed their view on the issue of membership. It also acknowledges the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The time has therefore come to look at the negative impact of the EEA Agreement and the role of housekeepers in the agreement puts Norway in. Therefore, work should be started to look at other forms of cooperation with the EU, and alternatives are available. Switzerland has, as it is known, negotiated an agreement with the EU following the conclusion of the EEA concept, and this is an agreement which does not have the same obligations as the EEA Agreement. I challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take seriously that the people of Norway have said no to EU membership and that the positions he points out have not changed. He should then have the courage to submit an EEA notification in April with alternatives to the EEA Agreement. The Foreign Minister quite rightly stresses that terrorism cannot be remedied with military power alone. The centre party should have wanted him to deepen this important point further. I will limit myself to referring to the forthcoming United Nations Conference on Financing for Development in Mexico, which appears to be ineffective in the sense that there will not be a single step further in the practical follow-up to the UN Millennium Declaration to halve the most extreme poverty by 2015. There is no direct link between terrorism and poverty, but everyone – as has been done many times – acknowledges that poverty can contribute to creating a ground for terrorism. The fight against poverty is therefore also a fight against terrorism. I strongly urge foreign policy management to take political action in the coming weeks to ensure more concrete content of the Conference on Financing for Development. The poor world needs someone who takes the lead in this work. Norway should assume that role. Following the terrorist attacks against the United States, Article 5 of NATO was triggered. This was not followed up by a joint military action. The United States did not see that as appropriate. There are signs from the United States that, in the further fight against terrorism, further military action is not excluded, and there are no problems with the possibility that the United States might go alone. This puts NATO in a very special situation. In this context, I would just like to point out the dilemma and encourage debate among European NATO partners. The government, in the view of the Centre Party, had some misrepresentation in the management of the situation in Afghanistan — misrepresentation that could help to weaken Norway’s humanitarian profile. The government's unwillingness to settle using class bombs in Afghanistan, US military use and unworthy treatment of prisoners in Cuba weakens in our opinion Norway's humanitarian profile. It is precisely the humanitarian profile that has been Norway’s trademark internationally and that has made us a ‘humanitarian power’. Our facilitating role in several conflict areas can be traced back to this short yet historic legacy. In the view of the Centre Party, the government should be more concerned with ensuring the humanitarian profile of Norway than it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e880	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e883	I share the concern of the representative Haga for the lack of international will to fight poverty. But I want to go back to Europe, which also Haga was inside. After all, the centre party still demands that others engage in fundamental debates on the importance for Norway and for Europe of the EU in a federal or confederal direction. The Central Party believes that the EU is a problem in any case, and that Norway should not become a member there at all, because it is undemocratic and certainly also for other reasons. However, when the Central Party calls for such a fundamental debate on developments in the EU and consequences for Norway and for Europe, I would like to right a fundamental answer from the Centre if they were to get an impact on their vision, which must be that the EU does not exist. The Centre Party cooperates with others in Europe who are opposed to EU membership. And if one were to get an impact on it in all countries, there would be no EU. What are the consequences for Norway and for Europe of the Central Party’s view of the liquidation of the EU? Is it an objective that a non-European Union should have? What kind of consequences would that have? Please do not say that there is an invalid question. Answer it in the same principal way that one demands a fundamental response as to whether the EU should go in a federal or confederal direction. Let's make it a fundamental question of whether the Central Party should be able to get its European vision across Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e892	I would like to thank the representative of Blankenborg for his question. My answer is that I do not intend to go into that debate, because what the Blankenborg representative is proposing is a completely hypothetical debate. There is no evidence that any EU country intends to contribute to the defeat of the European Union. So this is completely hypothetical. It's a totally uninteresting issue. However, a very real issue is the direction in which the EU as an organisation will evolve. It is a problem that is very much debated on the European continent, and it is about very fundamental issues. And that is the debate – a real debate on real development in the Union – on which we want to have a yes-page in Norway, and on which, unfortunately, it is not possible to get anyone on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e897	In 1994, the Centre Party tried to balance two messages to the population on EU and security policy. On the one hand, the Central Party claimed that EU membership would have no security policy significance; NATO would remain the only security policy anchorage for Norway and for Europe. On the other hand, the Central Party warned the Norwegian people against the European army, suggesting that Norwegian soldiers could be sent to Africa to defend French and German interests. Now we see that after 1994, the EU has had a not insignificant role in building peace, stability and security in the Balkans. The EU assumes UN responsibility for the police force in Bosnia at the end of the year and is also likely to take over from NATO in Macedonia. My question is, what does the Centre Party think about this development? Is it unfortunate, in the view of the Centre Party, that the EU has been given security policy instruments in the form of peacekeeping and peace-building forces? And does the Central Party see that the EU also has a peace and stability-building effect through the enlargement process?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e905	The Central Party welcomes the development of crisis management capacity in Europe. There are many ways in which crisis management capacity could have been organised. In fact, it was now in the EU that it started to develop that capacity, and we take note of that from the Norwegian side. Based on the policies of the Centre Party, we have also been prepared to contribute constructively to this crisis management capacity. How far the EU is going to develop military impact per se is, of course, a major and fundamental issue, which is directly related to the relationship between the United States and Europe within the framework of NATO. There I feel that we are very close in terms of future thinking about it. There's got to be a lot of work to do in the future. And as I was in my post, the situation after the terrorist acts, the crisis/war – what you call it – in Afghanistan, the need to take that discussion. I think, in relation to the East, that yes-side overstates the fundamental importance of EU enlargement as a peace project. The view of the Centre Party is that, at a time when global challenges are increasing, more and more global common problems are emerging, it is the global cooperation mechanisms that should be helped to strengthen. That's where the main challenges lie. There are the main environmental challenges, with the main poverty-related challenges, and therefore more political energy should be put into the global cooperation mechanisms rather than into the regional ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e914	Norway is a small country, has been said several times today, but not in the case of traditional foreign aid and being active in aid policy. A comprehensive dynamic policy is important to provide a more stable economy in individual developing countries, including to help the poorest countries in the world. Some of the developing countries are very large agricultural producers, and the Progress Party believes that the best way to help developing countries is for Norway to open up larger imports of agricultural products from these countries. As I see it, there is no doubt that this is the best way of getting a better economy in some of the developing countries. Exports are important for all countries in order to strengthen the economy of each country. Therefore, exports to Western countries are also important for some developing countries. It is, in my view, a very good way to help developing countries become self-held and not just passive recipients of aid and aid. My question to the representative Haga is: The Greier Senterpartiet to see what negative consequences such a tight, defensive and very conservative policy will have in this area? The representative Haga believes that you can have more thoughts in your head at the same time – for example. have two thoughts at the same time – that assistance can be made in several other, more efficient and dynamic ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e923	I can assure the representative that the Senterpartiet has a significant ability to have several thoughts in its head at the same time – two and often more. Food should not be considered as a traditional commodity. It's actually not unnatural that you have a slightly different approach to dealing with food than you have with, for example. trade in nails. It is simply because food has something in it that I think all parties should be concerned about, namely important health aspects. Among other things, from a health point of view, you cannot deal with food in the same way that you can deal with nails. We believe that it is both wise and right that countries have a significant degree of their own food production and that national policies can be taken into account. We believe that is wise for every country. We think it is wise for Norway, we think it is wise for each EU country, and we think it is wise for the developing countries to do so. From that point of view, the representative asks whether it is possible – from the point of view of the Central Party, as I see it here – to soften the conditions in relation to imports of food from developing countries as a compensation for assistance, our answer is that we want to raise the aid rather than to open up further. But let me stress – and we are fully in favour of the policy pursued – that Norway has a very high level of free trade in agricultural products with the poorest countries, and we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e939	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e942	Foreign Minister Petersen stressed in his statement that terrorism cannot be remedied with military power alone. Political, diplomatic, economic and judicial instruments are at least equally important. This is a view that shares the left. We must fight the causes of terrorism. Here, poverty reduction, economic development and real political participation are central. The fight against terrorism is also a fight for real democracy and for equivalent economic development. We must constantly ensure that the fight against terrorism is not at the expense of fundamental human rights and guarantees of legal certainty. This applies to the treatment of prisoners of war in Afghanistan and the trend towards stricter anti-terrorist legislation at the expense of the most fundamental rights. The left is very serious about this, and we would like to stress that the fight against terrorism – whether it is done with the law in hand in each country, through acts of war or diplomacy – must take place without undermining fundamental human rights. The right form of criminal prosecution against terrorists and other criminals against humanity is to establish an international court with an international mandate, under the supervision of the United Nations. It must also be possible to be expected that suspects in terrorist proceedings have legal protection in accordance with the principles of the State of law. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs because in such clear order he has warned against the forces in the United States that want an American military action against Iraq. Such actions will weaken international cohesion in the fight against terrorism. We must continue the international pressure against Iraq and ensure that Iraq complies with the resolutions. It is very gratifying that the parties to the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka have concluded a ceasefire. The truce gives hope for negotiations and a political solution to a long-standing conflict that has killed more than 60,000 people. It is positive that Norway also has an offer to assist the parties in the further work in the future. The Government will present a separate communication on EEA cooperation in April. The left is committed to making the EEA process more open and accessible and ensuring greater resources for bulking and management and the work of the various organisations towards the EEA bodies. In this context, a separate EEA message is an important step. When the distance to decision is large, transparency and opportunities for participation need to be strengthened, not least for non-governmental organisations and for groups of small financial resources. There is a very serious situation in the Middle East, and it has been further exacerbated. There is a great responsibility both on the Palestinian and on the Israeli side to end the acts of violence. However, the Israeli occupation is the underlying cause of today’s violence and terror. Israel is the strongest party and has a special responsibility for resumption of peace negotiations. Violence and terror against innocent civilians can never be defended, and the Left strongly distances itself from the attacks by Palestinian terrorist organisations on civilian Israelis. Similarly, we are taking a great deal of distance from Israel's retaliation actions against Palestinian maritime administrations, which are destroying infrastructure that is vital both to combat Palestinian terrorism and to strengthen a future Palestinian state. Arafat is under house arrest by Israel, and the attacks from Israel, among others. The Palestinian police make it even more difficult for Arafat to prevent acts of violence on the Palestinian side. The liquidation of Palestinian leaders and activists is lawless and morally reprehensible. The destruction of Palestinian media infrastructure by Israeli forces makes it difficult for journalists to work in a conflict situation. The destruction of the homes of ordinary Palestinian citizens is a form of collective punishment that breeds hatred and increases the level of conflict. Enlargement of the Israeli settlement, which is contrary to international law, continues at a high pace, and the Security Council must demand an immediate halt to that extension. The UN Security Council must now press the parties to implement the Mitchell report’s recommendation to resume negotiations that were interrupted last year. A solution must be based on the rightful claims of the Palestinians to a state of their own and the right of Israel to exist within safe borders. Israel should terminate its occupation, respect fundamental human rights and rebuild its destroyed Palestinian infrastructure. When Norway takes over the Presidency of the Security Council tomorrow, it gives us the opportunity to focus on many important challenges. One of them is to fight the profitors who serve themselves rich in conflicts around the world. Conflicts are prolonged and exacerbated by the economic interest of both private and state actors in keeping them going. It is important that the fight against terrorism and violent conflicts is based on maximum knowledge and most effective non-military instruments. This will allow the Security Council to act more actively in advance of conflicts. Furthermore, increased knowledge of how economic interests contribute to the extension and worsening of conflicts is important, and it is very positive that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supports research projects that contribute to increasing knowledge. It is also important that knowledge is transformed into political action. Our Presidency of the Security Council can be used to find effective means of countering those who serve the conflicts. The instruments used in the fight against terrorist financing will also be relevant for this purpose, and it is therefore very important to raise this debate in the Security Council now. The World Summit on Sustainable Development, which follows the Rio Conference on Environment and Development in 1992, will begin on 26 August in Johannesburg. At the same time, during 2002, the Government will present a Globalisation Communication to the Storting. The left sees this as a good opportunity to launch a concrete action for sustainable global development. Effective international agreements are essential to ensure responsible and prudent regulation of the international economy. It is a significant under-regulation of the global economy, resulting in poor countries losing all the necessary resources and revenues. Instead, income from illegal and unwanted activities goes to tax havens, terror and conflict financing, and many countries experience economic, social and political crises. International institutions take time to build up. It is therefore important to take advantage of that change of attitude, including: in the United States, which has occurred since 11 September last year. Development assistance is important to ensure greater global security and needs to go hand in hand with better market access for developing countries to their markets. The left will underline the importance of the Government continuing the escalation of Norwegian aid in order to achieve the 1 pst target. of GNI. At the same time, it is important that the objective of the OECD countries provide increased assistance – a minimum of 0.7 pst. by GNI - to be maintained. The Left will support a UN campaign to raise international awareness of the importance of development assistance. Furthermore, the Left considers that there is a need for a WTO review of different practices that restrict the entry of developing countries into the market and create a distortion of competition. A number of measures agreed at the Rio Conference in 1992 still lack funding. Norway must now work towards the follow-up conference later this year and take the lead in finding new, innovative, international funding mechanisms. In particular, it is necessary to facilitate more effective cooperation between private and public actors. Sustainable development depends on socially responsible action by private businesses, and the absence of mechanisms to test the efforts of business is a legitimacy problem both for business and for the international community. The left considers it important to strengthen work to ensure that Norwegian enterprises provide the same standard in terms of environment and employment, including in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e970	The Secretary of State’s statement gathers largely on the views expressed in Norway. Of course, the fight against terrorism following the attacks on the United States on 11 September has a wide margin. The attacks were a serious alarm — yes, a deep shock in the entire American community. It was also an alarm clock for an entire world that wants to protect its citizens from accidental and deadly violence done not by states but by highly competent terrorists. Like the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I hope that the United States will continue to anchor its fight against terrorism within the framework of a broadest possible coalition. It is a fact that questionable regimes are developing nuclear, biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction, which can be used not only against their own citizens or against the United States, but also against us. The United States is not addressing these problems for fun. Iraq, e.g. does not comply with the requirements of the United Nations Resolution even following persistent international pressure and sanctions over several years. Of course, this is serious. There have been some strong reactions in Europe to the concept of the ‘axis of evil’, and what many believe is the United States alone. However, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the ties and community of values between the United States and Europe are strong, and that we tolerate different opinions without breaking the ties. But the EU is now becoming increasingly responsible for previous NATO operations. And it is clear that the EU will develop a common foreign, security and defence policy. In NATO we participate in the decisions with full rights. In the European Union, we are not included. This is a serious challenge for Norway. We're part of Europe and not part of the American continent. The EU is also increasingly cooperating on conditions affecting Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. Economic cooperation is becoming more extensive. The euro has been successfully introduced, and several countries that are close to us are likely to follow suit. Important and crucial framework conditions for, inter alia: Norwegian fishing industry is added to the EU. If Iceland enters the EU, Norway will of course be further marginalised. The nature of cooperation has also changed as the Council, i.e. the democratically elected politicians, govern more and the Commission less. It is this close committed cooperation for stability and well-being throughout our continent that we now choose not to participate in. It becomes a bit funny when the most offensive Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs can point out, is that we have to show ‘persistent vigilance’. EU cooperation is thus strengthened and deepened in a number of areas. At the same time, the EU will be extended to include 10 new countries. The situation in Norway will become increasingly difficult as a result of this major change. In the future, we must try to promote our interests towards more than 20 countries without being able to participate actively in the meetings where important decisions are made that we have to comply with. This not only becomes practically unmanageable for any Norwegian government, but also new steps towards democratic deficits. The reality is that we will move towards ever-increasing political subjection. Of course, the 1994 referendum is a basis for government policy. But I certainly believe that the Foreign Minister should do more forcefully for the new situation we now know will come. I noticed that many in 1994 said they would reconsider their view if the EU became a pan-European Union. And that's exactly what's going on right now. The Member States of Eastern and Central Europe become not only members of the EU, but also NATO, thus getting closer to our allies than we do. The population in these countries has suffered immensely, and I am very pleased that the EU is opening its doors so that democracy, well-being and security can become part of these countries. I regret that Norway is not an important player in this great historical process. People in these countries now have new opportunities. At the same time, it is clear that negotiations and integration of all these new countries, with far greater problems than us, will further weaken the interest of non-member Norway. I am afraid Norwegian authorities, Norwegian organisations and Norwegian business will have to spend on a pitiful beggar's way to more than 20 capitals in Europe in the future. I believe that it is part of political leadership to shed light on the relatively dramatic new situation in Norway, and actually open the door to the option that can solve our fundamental problems, namely full membership of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1000	The point of my intervention is to take up some of the balls that have been sent out during this debate, to comment on them, but I will first be allowed to say that I perceive the debate so that in many ways there is a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. And that doesn't just apply to the main lines -- a number of the individual elements that I had in my presentation, it also seems to have been accepted in a positive way. However, there are a few areas that require a few more comments. One of these, namely European policy, I have to admit that I have to comment with some caution, because I am not quite sure whether I get the point from the Labour Party itself. I understand that so that they have made this a main question. When I haven't completely got hold of it, it has two reasons. One is that the Labour Party, as a party, has a much less clear relationship with EU issues than my party has. The second is that as far as I can understand, it's not a millimetre difference in operational action compared to European issues. What we in the Cooperative Government are quite clear and clear about, and open about, is that the Government consists of three parties with different European policy orientations. And we think it's right to be completely open to that question. Furthermore, we are fully open to the dilemmas we face in relation to Europe – both the opportunities offered by the current form of association and the problems that lie there. I think the only way to deal with these questions right now is to have complete transparency about the possibilities and the dilemmas. That means, of course, that in the ongoing debate I will make a full contribution to commenting on developments in Europe, which I fully agree with Thorbjørn Jagland in is of great importance. I have commented on some of these issues not long ago, both the enlargement issue and the euro issue – and the euro issue also in my presentation – and I find it difficult to see that there is a basis for criticism that we are not fully open in the assessment of trends in Europe. But I'd like to discuss this in more detail. However, I have a little difficulty dealing with that objection from Thorbjørn Jagland's side. As for the second question that Thorbjørn Jagland raised, namely the question of poverty, it is true that I did not have it as an important part of my foreign policy statement, but I agree without a doubt with Thorbjørn Jagland that here lies one of the really big challenges. When I did not have this as part of my statement, it was because later in this session the Minister for Development will give a broad explanation on precisely these issues, which will provide opportunities to go beyond a foreign policy debate. I just want to mention that the Government's action plan on poverty will be launched on Monday, that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Development and the Minister of Finance will attend the major international conference on financing and development in Mexico, which is the third week of March, that the Government of the Sem Declaration has as its objective 1 pst. by GNI for assistance by 2005 and that it also places great emphasis on the importance of stimulating increased investment in developing countries and the importance of increased trade. Both of these things are mentioned in the Sem Declaration. So there is a broad commitment by the Government to addressing the poverty issue, and I fully agree with Thorbjørn Jagland in the assessment. Where our assessments may be different, is whether such things as the Tobin tax are a good idea or not, but I think both Thorbjørn Jagland and I can agree that no matter what you think about the Tobin tax, you can't wait to do anything about the international issues of poverty until it's in place, because it's going to take winter and ours – probably that's never going to happen. So there have been some comments about what I said about Iraq. I would like to warn you a little against talking about Iraq in the same spirit as you talk about Afghanistan, because in Afghanistan was the home of military operations, which were very well carried out – I fully agree with Höglund in – self-defense, which is enshrined in the UN Charter, and it was further given an explicit decision in the Security Council and also in NATO. I fully agree that one of the most important things you did was to insist that in this context military power had to be used. An important part of my statement, which I have to say, with a little bit of amazement, is that I say that the choices we made in the harvest, which many in the Great Britain disagreed with, were correct. I think it's important to recognize that. Those choices were important. All the warnings we received during the fall have not been shown to hold water. I think it's very important, because a lot of the criticism that has been going on in dealing with these questions was that we so-calledly followed the United States in these questions. Yeah, we agreed on a lot of things, and that was right, and I'll admit that. With regard to what is being done in Iraq, there is a different situation to that of the UN Security Council's decision, and that is why I expressed myself as I have done. At the same time, I have used very sharp language on the regime in Iraq and also on the regime in Iran and North Korea. I think what we see is justified by the fact that I am sharp in the use of language in countries like this. The outside world's demands for Iraq must be clear: we expect the UN Security Council's resolutions to be complied with. There's nothing we're going to negotiate about. As far as the Middle East is concerned, I would just like to point out that the attitude that we have taken throughout the working time of this government has been consistent and consistent. The dynamic nature of developments means that certain parts of the message are given more attention at certain times than at other times. But there is a clear context in the message, a desire to continue the line that Norway has had, and try to go between and get solutions, but at the same time we have been clear with both parties in terms of things that need to be done. When someone thinks that there has been a shift in attitude, I would say that it has not been, but the dynamics suggest that we focus on different things at different times. That means that the vote in the Security Council in Norway took place in December, I believe it was a proper vote, and I still believe it, although some people disagree on that issue. Then there has never been such a small comment about the EEA Agreement. I just want to say to Åslaug Haga that I have not intended to provide alternatives to the EEA Agreement in the notification. There will be a message that goes through assessments of the EEA Agreement, strengths and weaknesses, but I have to say that there is little evidence that the Norwegian people want any form of association other than the EEA Agreement, and I think the last choice shows it with all manner of clarity. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, as I said, I agree with what Höglund says, that is the right thing we have done. I noticed that Åslaug Haga did not agree with everything, but I must say that I believe the choices stand. She specifically mentioned the class bombs. I just want to say briefly that the Stortinget took a decision last year that wanted Norway to go further than any other country in these questions when it came to getting a ban on class bombs. No other country has raised a general ban on this. We have discussed this with other related countries and groups on the basis of the Storting decision, and in these consultations a total ban has been rejected as an out-of-date issue because of the importance of the weapon in military conflicts. The use of other types of weapons and ammunition to achieve similar effects is considered to have such a significant negative humanitarian impact. Based on the discussions we have had, the basis is not present for an autonomous Norwegian initiative on a total ban. I have therefore assumed that from the Norwegian side we are now concentrating on continuing the work initially to gather an agreement on the regulation of the use of class bombs. In the framework of ongoing disarmament negotiations in Geneva, an expert group has been set up with active Norwegian involvement to continue its work with a view to establishing regulations covering so-called post-war explosive successions. This is in line with what Norway has systematically worked for. I also noticed that Jon Lilletun was very concerned about the situation in Madagascar. I agree with that – that is all possible reason. I record that the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the OAU have engaged, and I can assure you that we must follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1028	It's going to be line change, limited to five lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1031	First of all, I just have to say that it cannot be right that there is no one millimetre difference in the operational grips in terms of European policy, between the previous government and the current one. It is a fact that the Labour Party believed that there should be a freedom of action during this great period to re-analyse our relationship with the European Union, and whether or not to re-apply for membership. There was also an opportunity to do it towards the end of the landfill period. It is a very important operational operation that the current government does not have. Otherwise, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about his position on globalisation. I do so with reference to a previous debate here in the Chamber when I was Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the then parliamentary leader in Right, Jan Petersen, commented that I had had positive comments on the Attac motion. He said, ‘I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is out and flirting with the anti-globalisation forces from time to time. What he adds to this with the management of market forces, I am not sure. Probably a lot falls with empty barrels, but that's the kind of music you like to listen to on the left side, and if he confines himself to hearing fall with empty barrels, I'm satisfied." I wonder if there is any link between this fact that he did not address in his statement the issue of what is going on higher and higher on the international agenda, namely the issue of global measures to regulate global market forces, such as: global taxes, and the statement he made here as the parliamentary leader. What does Jan Petersen, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, think of his statements as parliamentary leader on the falling landlocks?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1043	I am still satisfied with Thorbjørn Jagland in that area. I agree with those statements, of course. I think in many ways the debate on globalisation has got a little bit of a bad focus. I believe that one of the most important things in the debate on globalisation is the question of how we prepare ourselves here at home to meet the challenges of globalisation. It is in many ways not a question of being for or against, but a question of how to arm the Norwegian community. This has been the background for me both as a party leader, and now also as a member of the Government – you will see from the Sem Declaration – being very concerned that some of the most important things we can do are, for example, ensuring that Norwegian education is fully at the top level, that Norwegian research improves, and that we have an investment and business climate in this country that makes investors prefer to be here. So that means that we just have to rest to be the best in some areas. I think that any other strategy is going to make this country a little bit of fun. That is why I believe that the debate on globalisation needs to be distorted in many ways to deal with what steps we are taking here at home. Then I am aware that someone believes that this issue is primarily a matter of governance. On the way, I can agree with that. When we have put so much emphasis on WTO negotiations, on getting a clean, proper code of international trade and economic relations, it is precisely to create the global regulatory framework in this area that makes things tidy here. That is why the Government, with the support of large parts of the Great Britain, has helped to get the WTO negotiations on the right footing. Then there are questions about the longer-term ideas of Thorbjørn Jagland about controlling market forces, and whether that is what is at the heart of the debate on globalisation. I think maybe there's more to the ceiling of thinking at Mr. Ichland. I see that he is now going to have a so-called dialogue forum, where he is going to dream, and I hope that at some point he gives us a share in the outcome of these dreams.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1053	I would like to stress what has been said here, that there has been great support for the Government's work following the actions of 11 September. We have been satisfied with the main features of the Government's foreign policy. So back to what I picked up and wanted to challenge the Foreign Minister. The pressure on Iraq is important. It underlines the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I agree that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very clear about the regime in Iraq. But if the pressure has to work, it has to be together, it has to be big, and it has to be heavy. One press agent, and that also mentioned Lilletun in his post, could be a threat to action. Maybe you've seen some movement after the American team mentioned this. My question will be whether the Foreign Minister sees that his warning against actions weakens the pressure against Saddam Hussein and allows Baghdad to split the alliance of countries that want a change, and whether we should not have waited to announce any Norwegian view of actions until we had received more evidence of what was desirable from the American side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1060	I don't know if I can do that, but I still think I have the chance to say that Höglund agrees with me that the situation in Afghanistan, where we had a clear self-defense argument, clearly mandated in the UN resolution and in the NATO decision, was a different situation than the one we are now facing. I think it's very important to hold on to that. What we are facing in relation to Iraq is – and I agree with Mr Höglund – that the regime in Baghdad poses a potential threat. We know that it is a country that has used weapons of mass destruction against its own population. There's a regime that in no way is there any reason to apologize, but on the contrary, to put pressure on. I believe that there should be a very strong pressure on Iraq. Nevertheless, it must be possible to take part in the general debate on whether military resources in this context are an appropriate instrument or not. We probably have to look in the eye that there are significant problems of international law, to say it carefully – while there is a real political problem in large parts of the world – associated with going to a military action here. I also doubt whether it would be possible at all to clean it militarily, because if it is to be a successful action, then it probably also has to involve the hills, and how can it be done, with the attitudes that are in the region? That's in itself a question. That is why I want to defend what has been said here, and I think that is a correct assessment in this case. At the same time, Høglund points to something that is a dilemma, and I would like to stress: when we talk all the time about acting multinationally, one must also remember that there must be a core of will in this multinational cooperation, otherwise it may often appear as an excuse for not doing anything. And that was the world's problem in the Balkans in the 1990s, among other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1069	It's a little premature to say something about what was right or wrong military strategy in Afghanistan. What we know about taking Osama bin Laden is that it's not yet successful. I will not take a long discussion on it, but I note that the Foreign Minister has not commented on the precarious humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. I really wanted him to say a little bit about it, about increasing the amount of refugees, kids who clearly have much worse relationships than before, and also want to say a little bit about what General Myers says. He says straight out that the war has barely begun, and that this will be a long-term matter. So little about the fact that the Foreign Minister has warned the United States of America against alleviation and military operations against Iraq. Iraq is one of the countries in that by George W. Bush so-called evil axis. Iran and North Korea are also part of this evil axis. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether there will in some way be a kind of cold war against the other two countries as well – or how does the Foreign Minister think to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1076	It was by no means my intention to avoid commenting on the humanitarian situation. I just want to say whether it is something Norway has been very concerned about, not least as a president nation in ASG, but also at the donor country conference that was too much. A month ago in Japan, where Norway made quite significant contributions to the table. What is our job now is in practical work in Kabul trying to help push forward coordination of work as much as possible, as well as to get to a process where the Afghan authorities are in the driving seat of their own country. Supporting the regime is, I think, quite important. The fact that there are significant remaining humanitarian challenges in Afghanistan is quite clear, and that is the background to our commitment. I have accepted that for so many times that it was not with bad will that I did not mention it now. There just wasn't any more time left. But then to the rest. First, I think it's a rigid piece of Jacobsen to say that it's now too early to assess the military action in Afghanistan. I mean, it's not. The Taliban regime is gone, and the geographic territory of al-Qaida is in need. This is an important step forward in the fight against terrorism. That the fight against terrorism is not over, it is something else, but that this has been made very significant progress, and that it has been necessary – unfortunately – I think it is quite clear. But I understand that with the misassessments SV made last year, one refuses to draw the conclusion. That's not nice. With regard to the question of the axis of evil, I do not believe that there is such a connection between these three countries that it justifies this expression. But I have to say that I am surprised at the debate in the sense that there must be no disagreement about the fact that these three countries are joining together, that it overshadows what must be a clear and clear message, that these three countries' regimes are some of the most problematic we are facing. There we still have to speak clearly – much clearer than the Bush critics are willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1087	I fully agree with what Mr Petersen said, that the issue of globalisation and Norway's relationship with it is about how we arm ourselves here at home to meet it. It's not about protecting itself from it, it's about participating in it in a sensible way. I fully agree with that. But the debate on globalisation is not just about how we manage ourselves. The most important thing is how others do it. And then the question of global distribution comes up. I also agree with what Mr Petersen said, namely that free trade is very important. Trade has raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. But if the poor countries are to be able to participate in this free trade, they must be able to do so. And then, for example, comes. issues such as financing of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to support the free trade opportunities of poor countries. In this respect, it is necessary to consider such conditions as global taxes in order to finance the global institutions. And that's what I'm asking: how does the Foreign Minister relate and the Right leads to it? It concerns the regulation of financial markets. It is well recognised far beyond the range of the left that the unregulated financial markets are not free, because they lead to misallocation, they lead to accumulation of capital, and there will be no more free markets than you think. Otherwise, I think it's better to dream than to have no dreams. The driving of politics is, of course, trying to move the world forward. Then someone has to press, instead of sitting and waiting. I think Jan Petersen was partly on the right track in his post. It was better than what I heard in the debate where he was the parliamentary leader. But he fell back when he came up with the expression “so called to control the market forces”. That's exactly what you're trying to do. There are more than one left-hand side that will control the market forces, and I think Jan Petersen should put away the words'so called to rule'. It's about steering.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1098	It was now nice to record that Igland was somewhat more satisfied this time. But I think there are clearly differences in our assessment of these questions. I fully agree with him that making the world a part of globalisation is very important. And that's one of the commitments during the WTO negotiations, for example. proper access for developing countries to the European and US markets. What is also important to us in the fight against poverty debate is that the combination of access to markets and assistance should put them in a better position than they are now. Of course, there are questions about financing the multinational institutions. This is in so far as a question we now have an answer to at national level. If you want to find an alternative funding system for it, you can of course discuss it, but that is not what is at the heart of this debate. In any case, I believe that the fight against poverty cannot wait until these ideas might have to be finished dreaming, to keep me in the terminology that we are talking about here. I think that here we see a little bit of the good old work party thinking, that you think you can value your wealth. I think there are other mechanisms under here. We will also come back to this in the globalisation message that the Government will present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1105	As mentioned earlier today, I have some concern about the humanitarian profile of the Government. It's not my job to polish on Regeringa's profile, but I think it's important for Norway to have a clearly crafted profile on the humanitarian side. I think, as I said, there's been some mishaps in relation to some things -- class bombs, military courts and prisoners in Cuba. But there's one area where the government really has the opportunity to polish its humanitarian profile, and it's in the process of reducing the number of small arms around the world and getting more control of trade in small arms. Handguns are a formidable problem. Handguns kill civilians in large amounts. Handguns create instability. Handguns contribute to a difficult to manageable trade. There are some difficult challenges here. Norway has had a great deal of commitment in this area. One has not come far internationally, but it is unusually important that some pusher this work further. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How will the Government deal with the questions of small arms in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1112	I sometimes wonder about Åslaug Haga when she does, as she says, raise questions about the government's humanitarian profile. When you look at the total exposure, I must clearly reject that there is any basis for the suggestions that Åslaug Haga makes, also in the three areas that she mentioned. There's no reason to say what she's saying. It may at best be based on rather superficial headline reading, but I think that also Åslaug Haga should accept that in some questions it's wise to know what you're talking about, before you talk about it. On some points there has been some criticism, but not least in the case of the Guantanamo prisoner treatment, it turned out that some of the critics simply missed out on the facts. Obviously, the representative Haga has not brought it. I just have to say right away that it's a criticism that I'm clearly rejecting. With regard to the issue of small arms, I agree that it is an important question, but also extremely difficult to get a grip on, because these are floating around. What I have not been given the opportunity to address so far is how we might find new approaches to this debate. I think that might be necessary. But I'll promise Åslaug Haga that I'll look into it and come back to, and see if I can find such new grips, for the core of the problem we can agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1119	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1122	Terrorism as the means of power to promote a cause affects innocent people and must never be accepted by anyone. It must be combated by all means throughout the world. Bombing the Taliban and al-Qaeda in Afghanistan showed that it is useful to put power behind the fight against terrorism, although unfortunately innocent people are also affected. But if you had given in to those who wanted to stop the bombing, new supplies to al-Qaeda would be brought forward and the suffering of the Afghan people would be extended. In the media, criticism has been voiced that the United States has chosen to place some arrested terrorists from the Taliban and al-Qaeda on the base of Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, where they are treated in a humane way and under international law. They're also being inspected by the International Red Cross. The arrested get three meals a day, and the food is of the kind they're used to from their culture and their homeland, and they get to practice their religion. They also offer showering every day, training and medical supervision. The prisoners in Cuba get better care than many of our older people in nursing homes, who don't get shower, training and medical supervision every day, or enough food. In Norway, it is common practice to take better care of the offenders than the victims of the crime. There has also been criticism that the prisoners have been cut and shaved, even though this has been practiced for many years in the United States. But terrorists might need to be treated especially well? Media and Foreign Minister Jan Petersen should probably take a trip to Rwanda and visit a prison there. 120,000 prisoners have been sitting for eight years without law and judgment. In a prison I visited, built for 700 prisoners, there were 8,071 prisoners. There were ten people in each bed, with four beds in height where they slept on shifts, and they got a bowl of a kind of well-being per. day(s) Out there, it was almost just a stand. These prisoners are under international law – but perhaps a little away from Secretary of State Jan Petersen's area of interest? In order to understand the problem in the Middle East, it is necessary to go back in history. This area has been the scene of many immigrations, and many countries have fought over the rule. Europe’s interest in the area began with the Crusades in 1099, and a Christian kingdom of Jerusalem existed from 1099 to 1187. Palestine was conquered by the Turks in 1516 and was under Turkish rule until 1918. Throughout this time, small Jewish communities have existed in Palestine, and during the 1800s, there was a certain immigration of Jews who wanted to live in the Holy Land, and Jews like the flight from persecution in Eastern Europe. In 1918, Turkey gave up Palestine to the Allies, and it came under British mandate in 1920. After Hitler’s takeover of power in Germany in 1933, the flow of Jewish immigrants grew, and in 1936 there was an armed clash between Arabs and Jews. In 1947 the UN proposed to establish a Jewish and an Arab state, and in 1948 the Jews proclaimed the establishment of the State of Israel. The Palestine conflict had now become a conflict between Arab and Jewish nationalism. The Arabs did not accept the establishment of the State of Israel, and formed in 1964 the Palestine Liberation Organization – PLO – dominated by Al Fatah, which became the basis of Syria in 1956. In 1968, Yasir Arafat became the leader of the PLO and supported Saddam Hussein during Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. Religion has created many wars and conflicts over time, where leaders of individual religions have proclaimed their faith as the only right and tried to oppress other believers. Peace can only be achieved at the negotiating table, where you agree on who owns what, and security is provided for borders, lives and property. It does not help to resolve conflicts by allowing terrorism, training suicide groups, killing innocent people, letting their children throw stones, etc. In the Middle East, there will only be lasting peace by the end of all aggression from both sides over a period of time, then by going to the negotiating table and agreeing on an agreement that ensures mutual respect for borders and the right of the State of Israel to exist. I also wonder what is the difference between the Americans destroying bases for terrorists in Afghanistan after suicide attacks and Israel doing the same in Palestine. In the media, it seems like there's a big difference. Oslo agreements and other agreements have no value unless they are respected by both parties and monitored by the UN. It's a saying that you have peace only as long as your neighbor wants. Let's hope that the neighbor will in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1142	In his statement on Tuesday, the Minister for Foreign Affairs warned against ‘trying to simplify something that is basically a fundamental debate on how close allies must also have different opinions’. A nearby question then becomes how different opinions close allies can have before the alliance becomes difficult to hold together. It's probably true, as the Foreign Minister goes on to say, that the distance across the Atlantic is not necessarily greater now than during the Vietnam War and the rocket battle of the 1980s. At the same time, let me remind you that the Norwegian right-hand side also did not stand out as critical in relation to the United States. Now, however, SV is pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is following many of his European colleagues and is promoting criticism of the US threats of attacking Iraq. The management of the fight against terrorism after 11 September has created a new situation for NATO. Following the terrorist attacks, NATO launched Article 5 for the first time since NATO was established, without giving NATO command of the actions that were initiated and are still taking place in Afghanistan. The war in Afghanistan is under American command. This has resulted in considerable frustration in NATO, which has built much of its legitimacy and justification in recent years on the possibility of participating in and conducting operations outside its territory. It would be natural if this led to a fundamental discussion also in this room on the basis of NATO as an institution. The International Alliance against Terrorism cracks as Bush now threatens to expand the war to other countries, using terms such as the ‘accept of evil’ about Iran, Iraq and North Korea. Norway’s role in this should be to associate itself with countries that are trying to keep the United States in mind. The SV also believes that NATO should assess its out of-area strategy and insist that it be the UN that sits in the driver’s seat during operations aimed at ensuring international peace and security. Instead of an American-led world order, we must have a UN-led world order. As you know, the participation in NATO is not in the same rosary as too many others in this room, and SV has always been against NATO's plans for NATO operations outside its own territory. Through what has happened since September 11, the United States itself has undermined much of what NATO has done to create new legitimacy after the end of the Cold War. This should allow more than SV to look critically at this strategy and the development of NATO in the future. The situation after 11 September has made it clear the need to strengthen the legitimacy of the UN system, so that the UN becomes the most important player in international society and is able to contribute to a more equitable world and more environmentally friendly world, as many have now called for. It was positive that the Foreign Minister stressed the OSCE's efforts to prevent conflicts and to build democratic institutions in different regions, not least in Central Asia, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs drew particular attention in his statement. However, the OSSE efforts are not enough in a region that is in line with conflicts. Russian assault in Chechnya and the US strategic positioning in the region, etc. in Georgia and Kyrgyzstan, give good cause for concern, and I would ask the Foreign Minister to bring these issues into the Security Council. SV was positively surprised that the Minister of Foreign Affairs so quickly on Tuesday made it clear that Norway would not purchase any more weapons from Israel. It seemed as if the government agreed with SV that it is fundamentally wrong to buy weapons from a country that is at war and that is occupying. Today, however, we have received a letter from the Minister of Defense stating that no such principle has been established, but that the Government will continue to make smaller arms purchases from Israel. This is very disappointing, and I would ask the Foreign Minister to clarify what he thought Norway would no longer trade arms with Israel. Norway has a fairly clear legislation on which countries we export weapons, but not a sufficient code for which countries we buy weapons from. We have long practiced the rule of not exporting weapons to countries that are at war or civil war, and SV has been busy guarding around this principle. The letter from the Minister of Defence thus confirms that Norway does not have a good code for the purchase of weapons, and that we can therefore buy weapons from anyone. In the SV’s view, it is logical that a code equivalent to that applicable to the export of weapons should also be established for imports. SV will come back to Stortinget with suggestions on how we can in the future avoid contributing to countries that are at war getting income from Norwegian arms purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1163	The government presented its European policy platform on Monday. It is an offensive initiative from the Government for a targeted exercise of Norwegian European policy in the period up to the 2005 elections. The policy shall be active in exploiting the existing cooperation arrangements between Norway, our EFTA partners and the EU. The priority is good governance and effective follow-up to the EEA Agreement. However, the platform's objectives go beyond our relationship with the European Union alone. Norwegian European policy has regional and transatlantic aspects. It includes Nordic cooperation, cooperation around the Baltic Sea, relations with Russia and with other European cooperation bodies. We also point to Europe's global responsibility for promoting human rights, the environment and development. The platform shall be a Norwegian European policy guide. The forthcoming enlargements of NATO and the EU are a historic opportunity to wipe out old dividing lines and to promote stability and security in Europe. The extension of NATO will strengthen the role of the alliance as the central cooperation body for foreign, defence and security policy issues. This is a main reason why Norway wants a broad extension of NATO. During my visit to Estonia last week, I highlighted Norway’s support for NATO membership for the Baltic countries. I was told that they have worked hard to qualify for membership. I am very pleased that the Baltic countries are now so clear candidates for the invitation to join NATO at the Prague Summit in November. The fundamental changes in security policy in Europe require, at the same time, targeted efforts to strengthen transatlantic relations. I am pleased that European countries share this view. Strengthening EU-wide security and defence policy cooperation contributes to continued strong US involvement in Europe. For Norway, the United States will remain our most important ally. The fundamental changes in security policy are also seen in relation to Russia. We welcome closer and more committed cooperation between NATO and Russia. This new pattern of cooperation is an important development, which has been pursued following the terrorist attacks on 11 September. Although our two-sided relations with Russia are already good, I hope that enhanced cooperation between NATO and Russia will also be positive in bilateral relations. President Putin's state visit to Norway in November will be a central opportunity to further develop the links. The situation in the Middle East is very serious. I stress that Norway should contribute to a stop in the wave of violence and get the parties back to the negotiating table. This was the key message of my phone calls to Prime Minister Sharon and President Arafat on 18 February. This was also the centre of the foreign minister's journey to Egypt and Jordan from 17 to 20. of February. I regret that Israel did not take advantage of the positive momentum that followed President Arafat's speech last December. A line that appears to focus mainly on security issues without willingness to engage in real political dialogue has little chance of success. The bombing of the Palestinian police infrastructure weakens the Palestinians’ ability to combat Palestinian terrorism. The bombing does not help to create a basis for peace and security, either in the Palestinian territories or in Israel itself. But there is also a heavy responsibility on the leadership of the Palestinians, and in particular President Arafat, to do more to combat Palestinian abuse. Terrorism is not acceptable as a means of achieving policy objectives. In all my conversations with the leader of the Palestinians, I have demanded that more be done to combat terrorism. These views were expressed by the United Nations Ambassador to Norway at the open meeting of the Security Council on the situation in the Middle East this week. The Parties must resume a genuine political dialogue with a view to resumption of the final status negotiations. At the same time, humanitarian aid to the Palestinians must be increased. I have noted with interest the thoughts of Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah on how to resolve the Middle East conflict. The principles themselves are not new. They are implicit in the Security Council resolutions. What is new and important is that Saudi Arabia, along with other important Arab countries, gives its support to them. We therefore called for these ideas to be pursued in our contribution to the Security Council. But only the parties themselves can take the decisive steps needed to bring about lasting peace. It requires restoring trust between the parties. Unfortunately, it is currently on a bulwark level. The government has taken a clear stand in the fight against international terrorism. This position is widely welcomed. Norway will continue to take full responsibility, and contribute politically, militarily, humanitarianly and in other areas, together with the United States, our allies, and as part of the broad international coalition. As of tomorrow, Norway has a direct responsibility as Chairman of the Security Council in March. The people of Afghanistan get help, and reconstruction is well under way, after decades of war and atrocities. We make great humanitarian contributions, and also have a central role in coordinating international efforts through the Presidency of the Afghan Support Group. The fight against international terrorism will be long-lasting and demanding. It has been very important that the United States has built up a broad international coalition. Even for the military and political power of the United States, broad political support and legitimacy will continue to be of great importance in the future. National interests can be safeguarded in today's world only in close interaction with other nations. I trust that the United States will listen to the views of allies and others, and act with certainty that its policies have a broad international foundation. All in all, we must fight against international terrorism on the basis of the fundamental democratic values of our societies and the human dignity – the values we defend. Driving politics is, in the deepest sense, a service for the individual. So securing human dignity becomes an important point of focus in everything we do. Therefore, the promotion of human rights remains a central element of the Government's foreign policy. In January I made official visits to China and South Korea. I had conversations with the leaders of the country. In the talks with the President and my fellow Prime Minister and host in China, we discussed a number of international and bilateral issues. We also discussed human rights issues quite thoroughly. I met with an open mind to discuss also sensitive questions. I put particular emphasis on religious and spiritual freedom as pillars of our fundamental vision in the exercise of human rights. I confirmed Norway’s interest in continuing the established human rights dialogue we have between Norway and China, where the development of the rule of law has been among the key issues. The government will follow up on the many actions in the Human Rights Action Plan — presented by the central government — both at national and international level. These are important areas for our international commitment – children, women, the fight against capital punishment and torture, and freedom of religion, life and expression. We will strengthen the human rights dialogue with selected countries and continue work on the social responsibility of business, in cooperation with those involved in this field. As an essential part of our foreign policy, we will also address human rights issues with the countries concerned. The Minister of Assistance will later have his own statement. But let me, on behalf of the Government, stress that in the same way as the fight against poverty in our own country is a priority issue for the Cooperation Government, not least the fight against poverty internationally is a very important matter for us. This year it is the 50th anniversary of Norwegian official development aid, which we now call development cooperation. I myself, together with the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development before Easter, will attend an important international conference in Mexico, a conference on the financing of international aid and its institutions. In this way, we will also stress internationally the emphasis we put on the fight against poverty. For me – and I am glad that it is also for this government – the fight for the poor and persecuted a heart attack.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1227	The Prime Minister himself mentioned that he was going to the United Nations Conference on Financing Development. That's very good. The question is, what does he travel with? There is now a draft final document for the conference, which is very vague and non-binding. There are no binding targets for stepping up assistance. There's nothing about global taxes. There is nothing about e.g. regulation of tax havens, which is a major problem. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not say anything in his statement about how the Government is dealing with this, i.e. he rejected the possibility of establishing so-called global taxes — for example: taxes on foreign exchange trade and taxes on arms trafficking – both to finance global institutions to bring about reconciliation and to reduce what we do not want, namely speculation about currency and weapons. As much arms trafficking as we have today is a major global problem, and a huge problem for all the poor countries. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it the government's policy that it will not work for such global taxes at the finance conference, which will soon be held? I also want to ask the Prime Minister about the attitude to the issue of globalisation itself and about the governance of global market forces. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has confirmed today that there is no need for market forces to be managed. He says that those who want this, and who have concrete suggestions for it, fall with empty barrels. I want to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1236	I can assure the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, that Norway has both been and will be active in the preparations for the conference in Mexico – and is actively represented by three members of the government during the conference itself. It shows a little bit of the weight we put on this. I readily agree with the representative, Mr Jagland, that the draft final document could thus far have been better and more binding. It's not in Norway. We have a clear objective for our assistance – as set out in the Sem Declaration – namely to target 1 pst. before the end of this bottling period. Unfortunately, almost all the countries of the world are below it – partly far below it. By just increasing a few tenths, the United States could have actually made a huge contribution to international aid. As regards taxes on currency transactions, this issue has been discussed in different forums, and I know it from my previous government period as well. It's an idea that hasn't got any special impact at all, and I don't think that's the way we're going to spend the most resources going. On the other hand, it is interesting how, in addition to official assistance, we can also trigger other international financial resources in the fight for development. We have seen an example of this in the case of GAVI, the children’s vaccination programme, which the Stoltenberg government, as it is well known, was also involved in, and to which one of the billionaires of the world has made a significant contribution. As far as globalisation is concerned, it is my clear view that it must be subject to driving rules and thus also to governance, as we do, among other things. see example in the World Trade Organisation, which has full support for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1247	Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik put forward many interesting points of view with regard to the EU, NATO and terrorism. Today’s debate has largely focused on Afghanistan and the Middle East, which has also been the focus of the media. It seems as if one forgets the rest of the world, where in many places there is unimaginable violence against its own inhabitants, and where freedom of expression and democracy are absent. This has nothing to do with poverty. Those who rule are largely wealthy, and those who are governed are poor. The problem is that gifts of money to these countries are largely in the pockets of the rich. There are also no similarities between poverty and terrorism. The action on 11 September did not show any lack of money either. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: What will the Prime Minister and the Government do to combat repression from several countries against their own inhabitants, such as the United States? North Korea, Zimbabwe and more? Shouldn't the Prime Minister also visit North Korea instead of South Korea?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1258	No, I'm not forgetting the rest of the world outside Europe, Afghanistan and the Middle East, which I particularly addressed in my article, but in such a relatively short article, a priority must be given to which specific situations can be addressed. I had at the end – I think – a rather powerful contribution in the fight for human rights and against poverty, and it goes right into the issues that the representative Steinsaker now rightly addressed. The fight for human rights has always been a heart issue for me. I have actually also been to North Korea, not as Prime Minister, but I have been there. Norway is actively involved in the fight for human rights and for a better regime in Zimbabwe than we are now unfortunately seeing develop. Even I have also had and have an active involvement in the fight against perhaps one of the world's most brutal military regimes, namely Burma, and for the movement of democracy in this country. There has been enormous progress for democracy and human rights in the last decade, mainly because of the fall of communism in Eastern and Central Europe. But there's still a lot of dark spots on the map, and we're working to remove them. With regard to the links behind terrorism, there is a very good reason to go deeper into them. I agree with the representative Steinsaker that there is no immediate link between poverty and terrorism. But the problem is that terrorists abuse poverty to achieve their goals. Similarly, there is necessarily no direct link between regional conflicts and terrorism. But terrorists abuse regional conflicts, such as the Middle East conflict, as bin Laden has done. We think there is reason to focus on what are the underlying causes of terror. That is why I have taken the initiative that Norway, together with Elie Wiesel, a well-known human rights champion, will organise a conference here in Oslo just about the fight for democracy and against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1273	I think I take the chance to see that the daily association between Bondevik and Petersen also means that the Christian People's Party is influenced by the Right. Especially with regard to the answer that Thorbjørn Jagland got to the question of financing global organisations, I guess I think the Christian People's Party was considerably more tamer than before. But I expect that Igland has an opportunity for a new line and can follow it up. Mr Bondevik stressed the security policy situation at the beginning of his speech. In this respect, it would have been interesting to hear the Prime Minister's view of what we can see as a new development of how international security policy cooperation works also in the context of NATO cooperation. Because what we've seen now in the Afghanistan action is that there has been no NATO action, even though NATO has said that an attack on one would be an attack on everyone, but that the United States has picked from past and new allies those you wanted to bring on the team. This can draw a new security policy map, where NATO becomes a much less interesting alliance, and where you see ad hoc picking the allies you think is the most interesting in the conflict that can occur. This is a development that is troubling many heads of state in Europe, together with the unrest that is seen from many quarters in relation to the massive upgrade that the United States is now going to carry out, and in view of the call for the balance between Europe and the United States to be maintained, by seeing signs of re-upgradation in Europe as well. What does the Prime Minister think about such possible scenarios? Is it really so that the answer to the most important challenges in the world now will be a new gigantic military upliftment, when many of the conflicts we are facing would not become military conflicts if the world's eyes had been directed at them ten years before it narrowed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1284	Yes, because the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister influence each other because of their daily routine, we have no problem with resisting. It was just supposed to be missing. In a cooperative government, the art of cooperation is that you meet each other also at points where you did not stand completely together before. It will be the experience of other parties, if they are to have government experience in the future. I think it is very positive that in this cooperation we have got a right on an ambition in the case of Norwegian development aid, in the case of 1 pst. of gross national income during this gross national income period. It's openly acknowledged that they haven't had in their program. On the contrary, we have had a number of proposals in the past where they have reduced aid. Now, in the spirit of cooperation, we have adopted the greatest aid budget of the times with the support of the Right. So the influence is mutual, and so is the cooperation. There's one government, and there's one policy, whether it's about Tobin taxes, which, for my part, I no longer think is the most fertile track to follow, or it's always about increasing the aid and the fight for the poor in the world. With regard to the main question of Kristin Halvorsen, about the evolution we can see, that the United States may have a certain tendency to pick out the most interesting allies, and that NATO may become less important, it was interesting to note a slightly concerned tone by the SV leader in terms of NATO becoming less important – the party that has been opposed to Norwegian NATO membership every year. But if I could get a clear confession to NATO from SV and an understanding of the importance of that organisation's role, that would be interesting. I'm going to fully support it. What we have said is that we want to warn the United States of America against an isolated issue of the fight against international terrorism. We require consultations both in NATO and throughout the international coalition. And that was the interesting new thing after September 11th; it wasn't just NATO, it was an international coalition, and some of these countries have participated more actively than others, among them Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1295	The People's Party regrets that the Government, with the Prime Minister of the Christian People's Party at the head, has agreed to include the Children's Food Directive in Norwegian law. When the EU said no to exemptions, exceptions that all the parties on the Storting had wanted because they feared the consequences for children’s health because they could get too much mainly vitamins, the government had a choice: either to accept the directive or to choose to use the right of reservation. The government chose EU loyalty to children’s health. Now the representative Lilletun has said that the Christian People's Party wants to veto the patent directive. But it doesn't matter what you're dealing with, because the Christian People's Party already at Sem spoke of the possibility to influence the Right in that case. My question to the Prime Minister is very simple: Does the Prime Minister believe that the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement is real?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1304	The answer is yes. And I could so far stop by it, but I'll say a little bit more. It was the government of Harlem Brundtland that negotiated the EEA Agreement, and she herself placed great emphasis on the right of veto, i.e. it is not a right of veto, but a right of reservation. If it has power, it must not be used too often. But of course it should be possible to use it. And the party that I represent myself hasn't gone off the road to do that. We recommended it on two out of three food make-up directives in the previous ageing period. And we have openly gone out and said – and we have also openly leveled out the disagreement between the government parties on that point – that we are prepared and intend to do so in the context of the Patent Directive, because it concerns for us such fundamental issues. We considered it very carefully to do it now. And it's totally wrong when the representative Haga says that we chose EU loyalty rather than children's health. Had it been the choice, we would have been prepared to make a reservation on this as well. But one should always consider the consequences of asking for a reservation, or so-called veto. In this case, it might have, in the case of Norway – or in the case of EFTA – put an end to other relevant provisions of the EEA Agreement in the chapter in question, and the possibilities of being able to participate in something that I believe the Centre also agrees with are important, namely the EU Food Safety Agency, where we can influence the work on safe food in Europe, might have been at risk. We believe that, even if we take the directive, we can take such strong compensatory measures that it was not a matter of choice between EU loyalty and children’s health. And this professional authorities have given us the right thing to do. They believe that the option of compensatory measures — both with information and with control — is reassuring. In addition, the industries have also now clearly stated that they do not intend to introduce any clear change of practice to the health of children, and therefore I came to the conclusion that this was the best solution after careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1318	I understand that the Prime Minister has got the Right to go away from the indefensible, which is that one of the world's richest countries should start cutting off aid, against his own giving up fighting for what is needed, which I am convinced will come on the international agenda more and more: global financial instruments for the global institutions. Now the Prime Minister said that taxes on currency trading are an idea that has not been implemented and that should therefore be put away. This is a strange opinion, because it has not been long since Chancellor Schröder in Germany and Prime Minister Jospin in France just ordered an inquiry into this issue in the EU context to see if it could be further addressed. Once one has arrived at that stage – after many years of fighting – the Norwegian government, which has fought for and spoken for this long time, states the whole idea. I think it is alarming that the Prime Minister is doing something like this, and I want to say: although it should not be possible to do this now – and it is not – it is important that someone continues to talk about it, because, among other things, it is. may force debate on other forms of global financial instruments and taxes. I want to ask the Prime Minister: does what he now said, that the current government basically does not want forms of global taxation to finance the UN and the global institutions? I think it is alarming now how the Christian People's Party is moving away from that thinking and to the extent that the concrete policy that has been pursued in these areas while in opposition. I hope you haven't heard too much on the Right on these questions, because here right has been some kind of outer party, not only in this Chamber, but also in relation to the international debate that has led on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1328	I think Ichland was in for a more constructive track when, towards the end of his line, he said that the point must be to push forward other forms of funding for international institutions. I think that's absolutely right. I can be sure that this government will also be active at the conference in Mexico with regard to putting increased pressure on all the countries of the world, not least the richest, to increase development aid, but also to provide financial instruments for global institutions. That's what we're sharing. But it's a fact, and I think I too, as former Foreign Minister, have registered that exactly this special Tobin tax, which he himself has also later had nuanced statements about, has not exactly been the idea that has taken the best advantage of. This is actually true in several social-democratic governments around the world. I'd like to look at the investigation ordered by France and Germany in this area, but I think that if we just stick to it, we can risk not contributing to what is our duty both in Mexico and elsewhere, namely to bring forward realistic mechanisms and preferably global funding mechanisms for the global institutions. In that context, I agree with the representative, Mr Jagland, but I do not think we should be stuck in the Tobin tax as the one who is necessarily going to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1338	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1341	I'm actually a little uncertain about what is now the Government's attitude to the issue of the use of global taxes and taxes. Of course, I'm consensual about what the Prime Minister says, that this is very difficult to achieve. I also said that it could be those who are a bit skeptical about the Tobin tax, who think it's hard to get through to it. But it's a fact that there's a proposal that's on the table, that's being discussed. Then the challenge, if one thinks this is very difficult, not to say impossible to achieve, is to come up with alternative proposals. Then I choose to interpret the Prime Minister so that he agrees that global taxes and taxes are absolutely a system that should be tested to finance global organisations, and that this is also reflected in the globalisation message presented to the Stortinget. It is clear that it is difficult to get global taxes and taxes, but it is not easy to get all countries in the world to go up to 0.7 pst. of GNI in ordinary aid either! It is not that getting up the aid budget is easy, and taxes and taxes are difficult. I think both of them are hard, and so one should also extend on both sides. The foreign minister's statement has said a lot of things is a platform that most people can stand behind. Then there are some comments that say that debates on the basis of that kind of distribution are becoming boring and uninteresting. I think it's important to say that this is precisely the fact that a person has extensive foreign policy platforms where most of the parties are involved, and where a clear multiple in the Stortinget has a value in itself. There is no tension and contradiction in relation to a foreign policy debate that is the goal. The point is to extend the foreign policy deal as far as possible, so that it is possible to pursue a consistent Norwegian foreign policy that makes Norway a reliable and secure partner in the international community. It's a consequence of being small. It's the big ones to take so much care of, but where we have the task of making the big ones behave like the little ones. It is an attempt at understatement when I say that it is going to operate in the excitement between three of the big ones, which is a replay in all foreign policy debates, between Russia, the EU and the United States, not to be less interesting in the time to come. But I want to warn you a little bit about what is very often perceived, that the so-called transatlantic tension is primarily a discussion about military operations or not military operations. In my view, this is, above all, a tension that goes on the will for multilateral and international cooperation. The problem arises primarily if the United States falls back into pure unilateralism and does not want to participate in global international cooperation. At the same time, it is a task both for us and for Europe to stretch far to make the United States an active participant in the international and global world. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was in his speech in an area that has gained relatively little attention, and that is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs calls the area ‘between Afghanistan and Russia’. It's just as good to call it that, because we don't have a geographic transformation for the new problem area that has emerged. It is an area known as South Asia, it may be called Central Asia, but we should also add to other parts: towards the Caucasus and towards the traditional Europe, but also the Middle East, which Thorbjørn Jagland was in. This is a range of potential conflicts in time. There was an article here earlier today that pointed to the problem of American presence in several of these countries. Georgia was mentioned. I think it makes sense to call Georgia, because it's an area that might experience some kind of collapse in time, because parts of the country are already under the control of others, and that more people have thrown their eyes at this. But there I would also warn against making this a pure question of American or non-American presence in different countries in this area, because there are sovereign states that want to cooperate with the United States and possibly NATO, and that is a legitimate right for these countries. The challenge is to involve these new states in international cooperation while at the same time ensuring that legitimate Russian security interests are safeguarded in this work. And when the Foreign Minister attaches great importance to cooperation with Russia, I hope that these Russian security interests in the southern region must be at the heart of the dialogue with Russia, both that for which Norway stands, that for which NATO stands, and that for which the EU stands. It's also one of the keys to a successful NATO extension, in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1354	Today's foreign debate coincides in time with the first meeting of the newly created European Convention. The major debate on the future of Europe is now to be continued in a forum in which parliamentarians and government members from all EU Member States and all candidate countries participate – in addition to a number of representatives from Europe's diverse organisational life. The work of the Convention is part of a process towards the next EU Government Conference, in 2004, where there is reason to expect new Treaty changes. A long list of discussions was agreed at the Nice Summit in 2000. The objectives include, inter alia: a more precise definition of the division of competences between the EU and the Member States to decide the status of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union to simplify the Treaties and make them more accessible to people in most cases to discuss the relationship between national parliaments and the EU institutions; The function of the Convention is to bring this process to the attention of the Government Conference as wide, open and inclusive as possible. In contrast to the EU candidate country, Norway is on the sideline. The right will therefore closely follow this European debate on the future. We also take an active part in various forums in the European Peoples Party – the party-political umbrella in Europe, in which we are involved – and we are also planning seminars on European issues under the direction of the mainstreaming group. I would assume that more parties will follow closely. Whether you are in favour of or against the EU, it is difficult to escape the fact that the outcome of the process now facing the EU will have a major impact on Norway’s political and economic framework. Let me briefly mention some issues: Will the EU make greater use of the new forms of work established in the Lisbon strategy, which involve a more targeted and less regulated policy-making?Do we want to see a further transfer of powers from the Commission to the Council and Parliament, as has been the case in the 1990s?How will European decisions be anchored democratically?How can the European decision-making system achieve greater legitimacy? These questions concern us because we are already involved in close cooperation with the EU. In summary, is this about what closer, more democratic and more effective cooperation in the EU will mean for Norway? The government makes it clear in its European policy platform that it wants to contribute to a reflected debate on development in Europe. However, the evening post today calls for clarification of the government’s objective. Will it, on the one hand, prepare Norwegian opinion for a possible membership debate, or will it, on the other hand, make Norway the most suitable place on the outside of the EU? Well, it would have been possible to predict for sure about the future, it might have been wise to bet everything on one horse. I think it's far more right to say that the government has looked at both of these two approaches, rather than none of them. And I ask, isn't it an advantage in the current situation – where we actually have a majority in this room that is opposed to applying for membership during this period – that we have a government that has different approaches to the European issue? Nor do I believe that the analyses of the challenges we are facing as a result of enlargement, changes in the EU's way of working, the introduction of the euro, the development of security policy, etc. become less credible when the Government consists of both a yes-party and two EEA parties. This government, in its European policy platform, has decided to ‘examine the challenges Norway is facing in its relationship with the EU’. In practical terms, the Government will take action to strengthen the Norwegian European debate through the use of the Internet, seminars, conferences, brochures, lectures, etc. Such measures are very valuable in the face of a raging development on the European continent, in the EU and in NATO, not least. Such an open approach is probably also a prerequisite for Norway to be able to face the many problems we face, whether in terms of an increasingly demanding impact on the EU and EU countries, the safeguarding of our fishing interests in the context of enlargement, the need for a closer Norwegian link to the Lisbon Strategy, our practical working community with the EU on EU security and defence policy, or any Icelandic EU application. If you see clearly an elephant on the hillside in time, you must have thought in advance that it can show up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1408	Norwegian foreign policy has an extent and a width that is alarming in relation to its size and that goes far beyond caring for our interests regarding, among other things, the country’s size. the economy, trade, defence and security. This can be explained, in particular, by Norway’s 50-year aid effort and our growing reputation as a broker or intermediary in conflict resolution. The role that Norway has developed in the international community is a result of long-term work and the work of several competent people. It is not obvious that this should be the case. The more important it is that we make conscious choices about what we want with our foreign policy. The brokering tasks and the scope of assistance provide us with an independent international platform. It has both positive and negative sides. The advantage is that we get a greater impact on other issues as well. The disadvantage is that, in particular, the mercenary role requires a dampening of criticism of the parties to which it is working. It can be stressful and cause regular rhetoric on the home track with claims of weakness and casualty – yes, even cowardice. The question will then be whether the results are proportionate to the disadvantages. So let me illustrate with a quick review of some of the problems we're currently doing abroad. Firstly, the two-year term of office as one of ten rotating members of the UN Security Council is an expression of the trust we have. When we take over the Presidency in March, we must be clear that the mandate is to secure or restore peace and security, and that it is essential to find solutions to which the Council can join together in order to achieve results. This is not a club for general political debate and with a month's egotism for the Presidency country. We meet hard work with a long agenda full of heavy conflicts. It seems right when the Foreign Minister will contribute to continued high focus on Africa, and with a particular effort to resolve the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Norway’s initiative for a seminar in New York on natural resources and economics that drive conflicts can also explain the causes of several war zones. Secondly, Norway's Presidency of the Security Council Working Group on Peacekeeping Forces provides a good opportunity to improve the planning and implementation of such operations. We know several examples that have shown that action in acute situations needs to be improved. Thirdly, the Afghanistan Support Group Presidency gives us a leading role in meeting the huge humanitarian and reconstruction needs of the Afghans. The coordination of all participants’ efforts is in itself difficult, and requires close cooperation with, among others. Security Council. Fourthly, Norway is now also chairing the Committee on Penalties against Iraq. Smarter, more differentiated oil penalties for the food agreement will, from 1 June, improve the supply of the necessary goods to the people of Iraq. Penalties will cease when the regime gives the UN arms inspectors free internal access to the country. It is important to contribute to alternative solutions to an armed intervention by the United States in Iraq, as some fears. I am very pleased, for my part, with the foreign minister's warning against such a development, with reference to UN resolutions as the possible solution. Fifth, Norway’s efforts as an intermediary in the war in Sri Lanka are at the invitation of both parties to the conflict. It is in itself a declaration of confidence which at the same time confirms the reputation of our foreign politicians. The conflict in the Middle East is the most long-standing and difficult Norway is committed to, and where we have received criticism from different teams in the last six months to continue to maintain a possible mercenary climate. For me, the government's management is correct as long as the parties see it as positive that we play such a role. Then we have to refrain from participating in the protest resolutions when obviously critical actions are taking place in the area. Norway has chosen a more difficult path, and I believe that it can contribute more to a good future for the people of the region. The Mitchell Plan's demand for solutions to the occupied territories, refugees, Jerusalem and violence must be taken into account. There has to be negotiations here without demands for non-violent intervals, and both parties have to be put under pressure by the United States and perhaps in cooperation with the Arab world, as the latest Saudi Arabia initiative suggests. As its predecessors, this government has followed up and further developed an ambitious and demanding foreign policy for our small country. I am convinced that the yield far exceeds the disadvantages that come with it. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should be able to go to the further work and to the Presidency of the Security Council in full assurance that he has a broad majority in this Chamber behind him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1431	Jan Petersen’s foreign policy statement contained two clear and positive new orientations or new formulations, as SV sees it. One is the clear warning given by Petersen on behalf of Norway to the United States of America against any plans that someone would be fighting for on the American side, that the United States should go alone against Iraq. It's not exactly a revolutionary struggle we hear from Petersen. SV has previously tried to get the Minister of Foreign Affairs to say clearly in this area, but failed in the main hall. It is also the case that many other European leaders have now been out with just the same clear warnings. We want to say clearly to the Government when it comes with opinions and assessments that we share. We fully agree with the Government that it would undermine the broad international alliance in the fight against terrorism if the United States were to be tempted to go alone against Iraq. But then there is also not the fight against terrorism or the al-Qaeda network with which it is argued in relation to Iraq, but the violation of the UN provisions to admit weapons inspectors in connection with the control of the possible production of weapons of mass destruction. That's a very important point. After September 11th, we were able to build wider alliances in international politics than we could fear the very first days after the cruel terrorist attack on New York. Both Russia and China were present, including several important Muslim countries. But that's what's at stake and can go if the United States doesn't think so wisely. We are now facing a significant and powerful upgrading spiral in the United States, the largest increase in the military budget in 20 years. It is also suggested from the European team that we have to balance, so that we are not in a situation where the United States is going to be even more superior to Europe by military means. This is a situation that I would like the Norwegian Government to have a much clearer speech on. What must be learned in recent years, both in the case of the bombing operation in Kosovo and in the case of the acts of war in Afghanistan, is that when a regime, such as this, comes so far. in Afghanistan, can hold hands and offer training opportunities for terrorists, and for decades, both political and humanitarian pressure has been neglected in relation to a country that allows for – say – a bandit country that is outside the international order. And that's the challenge you're facing in Afghanistan now, too. In the years since the Soviet Union was chased out of Afghanistan, the country was largely forgotten and actively pursued sanctions policies against Afghanistan. Now, the question is whether the humanitarian situation and the situation relating to the ground security situation are being addressed, too per capita. At present, the situation is only reasonably controlled in Kabul. Outside Kabul there is a significant assault, old warlords who can build up their own small armies and who can lead Afghanistan very quickly into a new civil war. If you were to prevent such a situation, it would require an effort from the international community. Petersen touches on this in his presentation, but I do not think the dilemmas are clear enough there, because he is drawing up the dilemma between helping Afghanistan and the new political authorities to build up their own Afghan police force and bringing peacekeeping forces into the international community, for example. under the auspices of the United Nations, and that we are then faced with a huge international effort. We're talking about maybe 30,000 soldiers in a peacekeeping force. The second concerns the situation in the Middle East. There Petersen speaks much more clearly than before. There is now an interesting initiative from Saudi Arabia, but the medicine in the sketch they have made is a powerful diet for Israel. Now I feel that Palestine is under considerable pressure from the Arab states to enter into a peace settlement. The question is whether Norway can help put a similar pressure on Israel, both through its own speech and through the United States of America. Because if you want to respect the 1967 borders, it means that a large number of new builders have to leave Palestinian areas – neither more nor less.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1444	The President will propose that we complete this debate at this morning's meeting and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1447	The debate has been largely focused on the fight against terrorism and how warfare and the use of military instruments alone cannot give us victory in this fight. Of course, in a force majeure situation, protecting itself from new terrorist attacks is all over the board, and it becomes more important than the need to try to understand the nature of terrorism and try to find long-term measures. Trying to understand why some people choose to plan and perform mass killings on civilians and innocent people is not a simple operation. But there is reason to reflect carefully on the means we choose to use when facing long-term conflicts. Our struggle is a struggle for human rights, the value of individual human beings, freedom and democracy, and the fight against poverty, environmental damage and disease. In view of this, it may sometimes be useful to critically assess our own priorities. We have to avoid getting into a situation where military instruments become the solution alone. It is sobering that so much of the problem is based on a military presence both in Bosnia, Macedonia and Kosovo. It is sobering that last year alone, our military presence in Kosovo cost DKK 1.3 billion, and that the international community is now spending almost DKK 30 billion each year on its military forces only in Kosovo. What is alarming is that figures for the UN show that there may be a need to have a heavy international military force standing in Kosovo for 10 years or 15 years — perhaps 20 years in the future. If today's strength remains, it means costs up to DKK 600 billion for the entire period only in Kosovo, and this only to prevent Kosovo Albanians and Serbs from killing each other. When I visited Kosovo as an election observer for the Council of Europe this autumn, we were given the opportunity to visit a Serbian Orthodox monastery. It was in the middle of a Serbian enclave protected by barbed wire fenders, sandbags, armoured carriages and checkpoints. Our Muslim interpreter was so afraid to go into this area that she asked to be released. For a Serb, moving on the streets of Pristina can be fatal, but for a Muslim, moving into a Serbian area can be at least as dangerous. We thought it might be exciting to hear the Serbian bishop's thoughts, among other things. about what's the root of the problem. It was quite encouraging to hear a message of hatred and bitterness from a bishop who seemed totally disillusioned when he explained that «the root of the problem is the turcs». We had actually expected another analysis of a man in his position. It was also quite encouraging to know that last year the Church's Emergency Aid representative was refused an application for 2 million kroner. to launch a dialogue project between the leaders of the groups who hate each other. At the same time, it appears to be a paradox that we have been able to observe an enormous commitment to communication for the Norwegian forces. Each of the Norwegian camps had a communication container of 100 million. kr, and only rental of satellite time per. the container amounts to between 4 and 5 million. kr per. months. I am not opposed to the fact that Norwegian soldiers and officers need a lot of capacity to communicate, be it via the Internet or be able to watch Norwegian television programs in digital quality. But we should also consider seriously whether we have some money to communicate between the parties that are at the root of the problem. I think it is of paramount importance for us to think in the long term in our foreign policy: how can we prevent future conflicts? And how can we find the root of the problem and search for solutions by building bridges, building trust, building friendship and understanding across religious, cultural and ethnic differences? Norway has been given a very special position internationally following the negotiation of the Oslo Agreement for the Middle East, despite the fact that the peace process is currently dead. I still think the few will blame Norway for this, and it is a pleasure that the doors are opened to Norway as peacemakers and organisers in several parts of the world. I hope, therefore, that the Government will intensify its activities in terms of conflict resolution, peace processes and dialogue between groups that hate each other. Norway has a historic chance because of the unique position our country has been given in the consciousness of many around the world as a peacemaker. We must seize this opportunity! We must help to smear the sword into ploughing. We must help to reduce the need for military instruments and reverse resource use. Several of the conflicts we are concerned with are conflicts between Orthodox Christians and Muslims, for example the Balkans and Chechnya. It would be of great interest if Norway could invite Muslims and orthodox Christians to a round table conference and thus contribute to increased understanding between these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1468	I'm going to turn around a little bit on the post, and I'm going to open it up by making suggestions. 1 and 2, which is distributed in the hall. The debate may not have been much about these two areas for the time being. My point is that we now know that the EU is drawing up an action plan on labour force mobility, it is about to ensure mobility of skills within the EU, it is about geographical mobility in the labour force itself, and they are planning a major information campaign to make the job opportunities of the common labour market visible there. I believe that it is important that Norway join this section. We are all aware of the debate that is taking place in Norway on the possible shortage of labour in the future. The central bank manager now went out last and claimed that we might need 60,000 annual jobs in the service sector, and then it goes without saying that Norway may also have to seek employment beyond the borders of the country. In view of the Government’s wish to open up labour immigration – unskilled and skilled – from outside the EEA territory, it seems important that we now join the EU process to seek to free and obtain the labour force that exists within the common labour market we all have. As regards proposal No: 2, it is likely that the EU will have a meeting tonight to consider presenting an action plan for a common immigration policy. I think it is very important that Norway join. Julie Christiansen said earlier today that Norway is outside the EU and in a way becomes a different country. If it is time for the EU to have a common immigration policy, at least the Progress Party fears that Norway will be able to accept the large flow of asylum that will come in the future. For this reason, it is important that Norway also participates, at least to make its views known. The best thing would have been that we had been directly involved in the action plan, but it remains to be seen what the action plan actually contains. I personally believe that the EU will now put itself on a tighter footing in terms of immigration policy in the EU, in relation to Schengen. I have to make it clear that there is going to be a corrected version of the wording in the proposals – in order to take it too. I had hoped that they would have been distributed in the room now, but what has been done is that the wording of the proposals has changed from ‘joining’/‘joining’ to ‘following up’/‘following up’. What is also important is to clarify where the Greatness is related to the EU's plans for both labour and future immigration policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1483	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1487	Right now I have to admit that I am never so little confused, because if it is such that I am provided to comment on proposals that are not yet available in their final version, it will not be easy to debate. It is possible that the solution would be to submit the proposal, which I think will also vote in many ways. But if I can get to comment on the proposals in their original form, then later treatment will determine how far they go, I would just like to mention briefly that we are currently studying the various Commission proposals on the harmonisation of asylum and immigration policy. They go beyond the framework of Schengen cooperation, but we have not reached a final conclusion on the Norwegian position, and we are not asked to join a common immigration and asylum policy of the European Union. On the second proposal, I would like to say the following: Norway supports the EU's efforts to create more and better jobs in order to increase mobility among European citizens. Parts of the Action Plan for the Development of Competence and Mobility fall under the EEA Agreement, while other parts, such as the proposed objectives and projects and actions based on open coordination, fall outside the EEA Agreement. In this context, it is therefore difficult to join the action plan as a whole. However, the EEA/EFTA countries have supported their work through a call for the Barcelona Summit, where the planned action plan is to be adopted. Through the EEA Agreement, the EFTA/EEA countries have developed so-called EFTA comments on the action plan, indicating a positive attitude towards the measures outlined. Norway is interested in participating in activities related to the implementation of the Action Plan. This applies, inter alia, to: exchange of information and good practice. On the issue of EU action on job opportunities: Norway is already actively participating in the European Employment Services Network. It is in the Norwegian interest to follow closely the further work on these measures, and this will be done in particular. through Aetat's involvement in this cooperation, called EURES. That's the one. The second was Bjørklund, who was very briefly concerned about the issue of the purchase of test missiles, which had been warned to become one of the major issues today. So it didn't happen, and I have a certain understanding of that. But just to clear up the facts here about my attitude to it -- it's not always the press that is informative, to say it that way -- I've said one question, and it's about buying this weapon system from Israel. I have said that it is not, and it already follows the order of magnitude of this weapon system. The repurchase mechanism itself, combined with our export limitation policy, makes it simply impossible. I have not spoken on other questions, and the Minister of Defence and I are of course fully involved in this matter. Many have believed that this has been a debate that we have now purchased a weapon system. So we haven't done that – these are just questions about test missiles to investigate where to go. There are two providers on the market, one is American and the other is German. So to Kristin Halvorsen, who thought I'd done some rewordings. I don't share that view. But if I get the compliment back, I'll say that if Kristin Halvorsen thinks I'm making myself clearer, I have to say that Kristin Halvorsen has become better at listening. And I appreciate that. My message has been the same all along, but as I said in my main post, there is different dynamics in the situation. And the fact that the Israelis didn't deliver what they should have done after Arafat managed to bring down the violence through Christmas weeks has made it necessary to use other formulations at that point. But it's the exact same basic tone I've been talking about all along. With regard to Afghanistan, I just want to say the following: Kristin Halvorsen used the expression that the Americans had built a coalition differently than one had feared after September 11. It's not "man" who feared it, it was SV's ingrained distrust of the Americans that made the SV afraid that the Americans would do stupid things while the others tried to warn. I think we should all be happy that we did not follow the SV's request that we stand up in protest against the United States. I think afterwards have shown that it might be useful to listen to what other people than SV consider the Americans to do and not do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1506	I'll just make a brief comment. I find it a little strange that the Minister for Foreign Affairs in some way finds it appropriate to comment that the Progress Party has changed the wording of the proposals. I just want to make it clear that it has happened in a dialogue with his own department, because the original wording was contrary to the EEA, and it could not join the Right. In a dialogue through a Group Secretary for the Right here on the Stortinget with the Ministry, the wording has been changed to ‘follow up’ and ‘follow up’, respectively, only so that it is prepared. I also find it interesting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that we already have a dialogue and cooperation with the EU in the areas that the proposals point to, because then it would be quite easy to follow up the new action plans that the EU might have to adopt in its decisions. I actually want to challenge the right in this area. If that's how we're already in a dialogue and a cooperation, it wouldn't be a problem to continue that dialogue and that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1515	First of all, it's about the purchase of weapons from Israel. The council was quickly outside when this matter became known, and said that it was not a matter of buying weapons from Israel. So we've done that. We bought some test weapons from Israel. But what is now one of the competing contracts is a German production under license from Israel, with Israeli knowledge and know-how and considerable licence revenue, of course, for the Israeli arms industry. We are very surprised that we have such a clear law when it comes to exporting weapons. That's very good. In many ways we have made it clear that it should be followed up, that we should not sell arms to a country that is at war, or fear to go to war. But we have no principles about the import of weapons. And there, I can't help but realize that we actually need a corresponding set of rules, because this isn't about how big or small the contracts are, it's actually about important questions of principle. Is it actually the case that we should not have any principles regarding the import of weapons, and what kind of country we are importing from, but saved by an amount limit because we have a repurchase agreement, and thus triggering the rules for exporting weapons? You can't have that kind of morality. It's supposed to take a high morale to be able to sell knitting in meters, but in this case, I think I actually have to have a moral that's connected. We cannot be aware of strengthening a weapons industry in a war country. And Israel is at war. In addition, they are an occupying power, as the situation is now. Secondly, I believe that the Storting in several contexts is very easy to understand in relation to some of the important and important issues that should be debated in the context of a foreign policy statement after 11 September. There should be more than SV now concerned about how to ensure ground safety in Afghanistan to prevent a new civil war-like situation. However, the kind of questions and issues that had to be resolved with some slightities that had not even survived in a school election debate compared to who thought what about the war acts that were started at the beginning of October. I do not think that is really worth a foreign policy debate. The same applies to the analysis of the importance of having a broad international alliance in the fight against terrorism, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself stresses in his argument as to why it must be wrong for the United States to go alone in relation to Iraq. It was not just SV who feared it after 11 September. It was an almost global community that wondered how the counter-reactions were going to come, and how to actually answer it from the United States. And there are many – many more than SV – who have said that it was good to work to get an international alliance, that it was interesting that you now managed to get an alliance with Russia and China, have it as a theme in the Security Council and have Muslim states in it. That this should be something strange and strange and awfully separate SV-position, I think I say something about the short-term memory of some of today's debaters. I would very much like the next time we have important and significant foreign policy issues for debate, to be able to engage in a dialogue on how we can now cope with a security policy situation where the United States does not choose on the top shelf the ally they want to have on an action, while the rest of the world and the former NATO ally remain standing and watching. It is a challenge not only military but also political, which Blankenborg had to face. The second is how we can now manage to ensure, in relation to the countries that can become bandit states, that we have international instruments in place to ensure, for example, that we can do this. prevent new civil war in Afghanistan and prevent new regimes from coming into place that can just hold hands over extremist environments that could be new terrorist bobs. That is the long-term fight against terrorism. SV's main argument during the whole fall was that we have to face up to the fact that we are thinking more steps forward in the fight against terrorism. We can't imagine firing up environments that can recruit new extremists who are willing to risk their lives in new suicide operations. That is the dangerous threat picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1534	First, a brief comment on the two proposals taken up by Mr Sandberg's representative. It has been made clear to both the representative of Sandberg and the parliamentary leader of the Progressive Party what is the Right's view of these proposals, regardless of their wording, that they are, by their very nature, typical transmission proposals. If the Progress Party wants to change them to transfer proposals, the matter is fine. If they insist on voting, the Right will vote against. So a small remark to some of the somewhat surprising features of today's foreign debate. By and large, it has not offered me the big surprises about positions, but on a few points there have been some surprising entries. It's a little surprising that SV has suddenly had a touching care for NATO's out of area operations. It has to be said to be a new line from SV's side, and that's why we welcome it. It will be promising if SV intends to follow up on it in the future. It is also interesting to note that SV has an equally touching concern for the US arms industry, despite the fact that SV later believed that the United States is also at war. What is the current situation with regard to the pan-server missiles that Dagbladet has been busy firing in the last few days — with relatively high noise — is the existence of a competitive situation between an American giant company and a German company. Also there is a somewhat surprising new form of care from SV's side. The centre party has used most of this foreign debate to talk about the EU Children’s Food Directive. With all due respect for the importance of the matter, it must be said that there are more challenges in today’s world than the application of the EU Children’s Food Directive in the Kingdom of Norway. Since the Center Party has blown itself up to the very large rhetorical heights and talked about child health – in the past it has been largely public health that went beyond, among other things. in the case of the veterinary agreement, it must be permitted to ask where it has been obtained from the short-term memory of the batch. It is not very long since the Central Party itself has been in government, based on the EEA Agreement. And the centre party was left with open eyes – one must assume – overrun when it came to the veterinary agreement, which, in the opinion of the centre party, apparently had far greater scope than the directive we are talking about now. It was carefully observed that some of the central government councils of the Central Party took this one. It must be allowed to ask whether the central party's short-term memory has become so short that any memory of sharing government responsibility with some, including responsibility for Norwegian foreign policy, has been left behind. In particular, it is surprising that the case of the Central Party is being dealt with by one who was the Secretary of State of the Government concerned, and thus had a particularly strong co-responsibility for what the then government did, namely to adapt Norway to EU policy in more and more areas by virtue of the EEA Agreement on which the Central Party is now supposed to be fundamentally opposed. So that resistance has not been so principleal that one was unable to govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1550	My comments on Sandberg's proposal went no further than that I found that no person here mentioned any of this before the time of 15 o'clock and well that. And when the proposals then come in a different shape, it is clear that the other members of the Stortinget will not know the revised wording until it is put on the table in the last minute. Some of the content of the proposals is also concerned with opening doors, and in such cases the Storting normally sends it on to treatment in the Government. There are not major problems with part of this, but in the case of proposal No. So 2 is an assessment of the action plan, but we haven't gone into it yet. If the wish is to obtain an assessment, the assessment has already been started. So the need for these proposals is not overwhelming, and perhaps the debate has expressed that too. With regard to the discussion – I was saying the argument – with Kristin Halvorsen, this is to the extent of a constant discussion. But I just want to remind Kristin Halvorsen that she has subjected me to a number of demands that I constantly protest. I've just suggested that what I was going to protest on the basis of, perhaps has not been particularly thoughtful, including the first unwarranted concern, which we had a couple of TV debates on initially. I think it might be important for the understanding of the matter that when you are going to take part in a debate, it needs to be adapted to what is real in the debate, and not what is often a misapprehension of American policy, namely that the North considers Americans to be cowboys, and therefore we know better. This better-knowing attitude has been under a lot in parts of Norwegian policy's response to American politics, and I think it's not going to last. It's quite funny, however, that a lot of what's done is always assessed in relation to American politics. Even my decision on the rejection of the Middle East resolution was not assessed on the basis of how it worked in the Middle East, but on whether or not to follow the Americans. It was Djupedal's assessment of the matter. When it becomes the perspective of things, it becomes pretty funny. And when SV has been nice with my presentation this time, according to the press, it's because I could say from the Americans – it's not in relation to the content of what I said, but it was something you could disagree with the Americans about. If I were to give SV a little advice, it's starting to evaluate foreign policy issues based on their content and not just whether they're suitable to disagree with the Americans in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1561	Now the president is a little insecure. It was initially believed that the debate would only go a little beyond the regulatory time. Now there are so many people who are on the list of speakers, that there are questions about whether we should continue the debate at the evening meeting. The President will propose that the debate be cut here and continue at the evening meeting, because we need to have an evening meeting anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1564	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1571	There are now two on the list of speakers, and we're trying to finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1574	I promise not to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1581	To the representative, Wohnning: I have no concern for NATO's 'out of area' strategy or American weapons manufacturers, and that is what the representative knows very well. But I want to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the following question: Is it possible to buy the weapon for more than DKK 1 billion from a company that only pays license fees to Israel, or is it a question that the Minister for Foreign Affairs might consider further?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1588	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1592	I cannot cope with the Foreign Minister's teachings and the sarcasms of the Vice President. I think it's actually the Foreign Minister who has an American complex, because our point has been that you have to make your own independent political judgements and give notice of them, and not school to what others think. I think you've actually put a damper on yourself to get out differently from the United States, or because you don't dare criticize the United States. Compared to the Middle East, the speech is considerably clearer now. It's not just SV that sees it. Norway has been in a strange alliance, for example. in relation to voting in respect of observers, where we were with the United Kingdom and the United States, but where the others voted against. So if Jan Petersen doesn't have a US complex, and SV doesn't have a US complex, we could end this foreign policy debate by saying that Norway has to make independent political assessments and make clear to them without being afraid of anyone. Then we might have gone a little further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28.ana.ud928e1601	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The vote will be taken at the next voting time. [[Fotation, see page 1794]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
