ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e238	Before we start today's meeting, the president wants to provide a certain amount of prior information. If the Stortinget is to pass through Wednesday and Thursday in such a way that the matters to be dealt with at the latest on the agenda are also to be marked by the necessary seriousness which should characterise the Stortingen negotiations, the President will have to make restrictions on the speaking times proposed by the various committees. The President will essentially try to achieve this restriction by limiting access to the replacement of lines after speeches by main speakers, but will try to implement the replacement of lines after submissions by state councils. If, in addition to this, we can work together, we should be able to avoid that especially tomorrow's meeting will end something before five Friday morning. I have to ask for understanding – in all the committees – that we have to take such action if we are to get a decent answer to all the issues. Now it will be that all the committees feel that their case is probably the most important. But it's not like that. [[Laughter]] These are the main treatments of the Storting. The President will therefore communicate with the committee leaders as much as possible in advance, but will, at the beginning of each debate, propose limits to speaking time, especially in the case of line changes. Furthermore, the President would draw attention to the fact that, in dealing with case No. 6 today, there is likely to be a vote on procedural issues, so that representatives take into account that not all votes will be taken at the end of the meeting. Case No. 6 concerns the treatment of the setting of the EOS Committee. If we get this done, it would be possible to finish at twelve o'clock in the night and two to three o'clock in the morning. Then we'll see what Friday brings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e253	I'll be quick not to delay the meeting further, beyond the night. I am also not interested in sitting here for the morning breakfast, but I realize that at times it may be necessary. I think it is unheard of that we should not be allowed to have lines on main speakers. Now, for a long time, the Defence Committee has been working on a very big case for the defence, and if we are not going to be able to express what we mean here in the Chamber, in line changes, I think it seems almost undemocratic. So, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to ask that there be a vote in the Chamber, and I suggest it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e260	Of course, there will be an opportunity to vote on the various debates when the President refers to the various debates before we deal with the individual issues. I understand that someone disagrees with this way of doing it. However, the President will insist on voting in order to see whether the Chamber agrees with the various fractions or with the President, and that is what we will come back to in each case. The representative, Marit Arnstad, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e265	On behalf of the representative of Åsa Elvik and myself, I would like to propose that the placing on the market of farmed cod be included under the Raw Fish Act. And on behalf of the representatives of Eli Sollied Överaas, Morten Lund and myself, I would like to make a proposal for an investigation of market power linked to the Norwegian food chains.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e272	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e275	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Rune J. Skjellaaen and myself, I would like to propose measures to maintain business and housing in Odda and Inner Hardanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e280	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e283	On behalf of the representative Per Erik Monsen and myself, I would like to propose the removal of the HK tax on engines for pleasure boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e289	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e303	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e312	I will not repeat it, but just refer to what I said before, and on behalf of the Progress Party ask for a vote in the Chamber on whether the President's vote proposal will be implemented. I'm asking that lines on the main speakers be allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e317	Let me first, on behalf of the Defence Committee, regret the situation that has arisen. We probably ordered on 19 June at the beginning of February, and we have also saved Stortinget so that today's big news of social security is being addressed. However, after an overall assessment, the Labour Party will recommend our members to support the President's arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e324	It appealed to the necessary seriousness in the treatment of Stortinget. That is absolutely in agreement with the SV. That's why we believe that there should have been an assessment of a short-term approach, so that you could have kept the lines, because it's important that the different points of view are made clear in such a large case, which amounts to NOK 118 billion. Therefore, in the absence of an alternative with shorter speaking time, SV will vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e329	In short, I would like to ask the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e334	I share the view that Andersen's representative had, that it would have been desirable to keep lines and rather brief in speaking time. I thought it was sad that the president did not have a preliminary contact with the groups, so that we could actually have discussed that particular situation. In view of the Presidency's situation and the President's situation, I would nevertheless urge the Christian People's Party's group to vote in favour of the President's proposal. But I thought that when one in such a big case deviated from what people have expected to be the arrangement, it would have been desirable for us to have contacted it in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e341	In principle, I believe that this house should discuss matters thoroughly and in detail, and that we should not intervene and limit speaking time in the Stortinget. I also accept what the President has said here, that this will be a problem related to the day, but I stress that it would have been a great advantage, as the representative Lilletun was also concerned about, whether this had been addressed with the parliamentary leaders, so that one could have clarified it internally in the groups. Then we might have avoided part of the debate that is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e348	Several have not asked for the word, and we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e359	As a result, the President's proposal for a debate has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e363	It is historic that the Workers' Party and the current government parties have now agreed on the structure, volume and overall economic framework of the Defence for the current four-year period, but today it is actually such that a clear decision is taken on this in this Chamber – or whether it will be tonight. Defence and security policy should, in my view, be based on a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. Attention needs to be paid to the active, balanced and predictable policy of defence and security in cooperation with allies and neighbouring countries. Keywords must be predictability and calm to carry out the completely necessary reorganisation process under way. The aim is to establish a new defence structure with a better operational capability and a structure adapted to current and future security challenges. Then we have to eliminate the imbalance between structure, volume and economic framework. Let me add that it does not mean cutting budgets, as some have said somewhat misleadingly: the defence budget has never been bigger, and it is increasing sharply in 2004 and 2005, within a total framework of DKK 118 billion over the four-year period, adapted to the structure adopted later today – or tonight. When the defence reform was discussed a year ago, there was no majority in favour of a consensus on the framework and structure. This led to an imbalance between structure and funding. That is why, on behalf of the Defence Agency, I am very pleased that we have now reached an agreement that ensures predictability and provides consistency between tasks and funding. I believe that is a victory for the Defense. We're all supposed to be happy about that. The Committee has also noted that, in order to bring the structure, volume and economic framework into line, the Government has made some proposals for changes to the Inst. S. No 342 for 2000-2001. With some adjustments, a broad majority joins the Government's proposal in the proposition. The majority of the Committee attaches great importance to the need for the conversion of defence in the light of NATO's fundamental role in European security and stability, and the commitments of Norway's NATO membership. We are experiencing – as everyone knows – a new and more complex threat picture and demand a better use of resources. The 1999 NATO Strategic Concept and Defence Capabilities Initiative identified a major need for the modernisation of Defence to meet precisely the new challenges. In many European countries, too large an old-fashioned structure has been defended, partly underfunded. Modernisation, adaptation to new threats and synchronisation between structure and funding are challenges common to many NATO countries. Today's treatment is a step in the right direction to modernise Norwegian defence. September 11th and the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon led to the reality of what had so far been seen as a horror scenario. It is likely that what happened on 11 September 2001 will change security policy, balance of power and international policy to an even greater extent than the fall of the Berlin Wall, as marked by the 1990s. For 11 September, the world has shown that the fight against terrorism must be long-term and holistic. We must look at the causes, and we must use both political, diplomatic, economic and military instruments. The terrorist attack on 11 September showed suddenly and brutally what a new dimension international terrorism and asymmetric warfare is facing us all. We couldn't care less about the challenges the new situation had put us in. In the subsequent process, Norway has sent equipment, troops and other crews to Afghanistan under American command, with a broad majority in the Great Britain in its back. Particular emphasis has been placed on the special competence of individual Member States, such as our specialists in snow, cold and mountain warfare. NATO has adapted rapidly and smoothly to both post 1989 and post 11 September and has recently concluded a close alliance with Russia. This is a direct consequence of the broad coalition against terrorism. A full membership offer for several former central and eastern European countries will be followed up in the autumn. The Cold War's defence alliance is being transformed into a broad security cooperation body, and is becoming increasingly political – in cooperation with the EU as well. The major migrations in NATO concern those who are used to assessing threats to security by counting the counterpart's tanks or warships. The threats today are far more unpredictable: terrorism, organised crime, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, fundamentalists and disintegrators. This is the curtain on which we have to prepare our territorial defence. In addition, this is why we need to make resources available for international operations in the short term – international operations that will then also be part of the defence of our own country. In addition, we must recognise that an effective response to the new security challenges of an open, democratic and technological society cannot be solved by military force alone. A total concept of preparedness and security is necessary, and we need to develop much more civil-military cooperation, where traditional cultural differences must not hinder constructive solutions. We will come back to that in the treatment of the EEAS on vulnerability and social security. The Proposition proposes more reorganisations and closures of the army structure than that adopted last year. In addition, important investments for the proposed army structure shall also take place during the next planning period. Both the reorganisation of the Army and the preparedness for terrorist attacks make new demands on the Home Guard. Home security has a great deal of competence and special qualities, not least local knowledge and presence throughout the country. In my opinion, home security has the potential to be an important resource in the field of security and preparedness, but it also requires changes in the structure of Home Security. And not least it requires innovation. If the Home Security system is to have a capacity for more flexibility and cooperate with other military and civil actors in an anti-terrorism function, it must involve a quality enhancement, with even greater emphasis than today on 016 forces, or special forces. The Committee also stresses that the greatest threat of terrorism in Norway is in the major cities with high population density and institutions with high symbolic value. Home security should play a role here in civil-military cooperation. In this context, the Committee calls for a review of the tasks, organisation and structure of Home Affairs. The Committee also opposes the proposal for passive rolling of the older classes of the year, which we believe would have eliminated at least the most experienced of the Order Corps of Homeland Protection. Then the committee setting ensures support for the volunteer shooter. The 170 000 members who are organised in more than 900 shooting teams are an important part of Dugnads-Norway and maintain, among other things. shooting lanes used by the Home Guard. Voluntary shooters are also a driving force in the community in cooperation with other non-governmental organisations. With our long coastline and large sea areas, maritime defence is an extremely important part of the defence of the situation we are now facing, with the new terrorist threats. The conciliators agree that there is a need to build an extended dock for the frigates in the Fridtjof Nansen class at Haakonsvern and that it is completed in 2006. As a matter of urgency, it is important that the maritime defence has such a dock. In addition, the dock extension ensures 170 industrial workplaces. One of the issues on which the Workers' Party is very concerned is repurchase and the participation of Norwegian industry in major procurement projects and development agreements. It is now a unanimous committee that believes that the defence has been served by the use of repurchase agreements, in the light of the fact that it also gives the Defense the opportunity, in cooperation with Norwegian research and development communities, to obtain technological solutions that are better adapted to Norwegian circumstances. The Norwegian defence industry depends both on repurchase and has a lot to contribute, and let me also underline the latter. And of course we're served with and depending on our own defence industry. The Committee also stresses the importance of involving Norwegian industry in research and technology development in major procurement. The Committee specifically mentions this in the case of the purchase of new fighter aircraft. And let me add that I am very pleased that this is now also binding remarks that the current government parties are involved in, and that the Council of State is obliged to make. I believe that this is a type of comment that, on our part, is also a form of real policy, because we can also follow this with repurchase and the involvement of the Norwegian industry. Hunter aircraft are to be acquired – I think it is in 2015, but the council even mentioned 2017 in an open hearing recently. I'm not prepared, with the technological development we're now seeing and seeing, to take a stand for what kind of fighter planes we're going to buy in 15 years. We have had a debate over the last few days on the basis of the fact that the Department of Defence has decided to continue its participation in the American Joint Strike Fighter programme, which we have been part of since 1996. This includes cooperation with Denmark and the Netherlands. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that Norwegian industry can be integrated into this development programme, which will amount to 300 million during the planning period. kr – a total of 1 billion over 10 years. If the Norwegian industry is not allowed to participate, the agreement may be terminated – and in my opinion it shall. If we don't join, the Danish and Dutch industries will participate in the project, and we fall outside. The question is, of course, whether Norway should also participate in development programmes directed by competing producers. I'll leave that open here. The Committee is in favour of integrated management between the Department and the Defence Staff. I believe this will strengthen the strategic focus and responsibility of the defence leadership. Competence environments will be brought together, which will improve political control and governance. More recent examples show why this is important. The governance will be clearer and the processes more transparent. This will help to speed up the process, and in addition, two partly competing red tapes will be made into a single and unified department. This will eliminate duplication of efforts, involving less red tape, lower costs and improved political control, as well as faster time from decision to decision making, which we are likely to suffer. We sometimes see that it is a bit slow between Huseby and Akershus, or Myntgata. Integrated management also improves the capacity for crisis management and coordinated Norwegian action in international forums. The events of 11 September have shown us how important this is. I know that some people are worried that we won't continue to have a visible head of defense. That's not the case. Then you have to read the settings properly, if you think so. An integrated department corresponds to what the majority of countries in NATO and most Western democracies have, i.e. countries we like to compare with. Of course, for the Workers' Party, the head of defence is to be heard in the same way as before, when he wishes, and in the same way as now regularly submit his assessments and plans to the public in advance of decisions. The Defence Manager shall, of course, continue to exercise general command. Overall, therefore, the reform – in my view – will strengthen the defence manager’s terms of effective management. The introduction of integrated management will provide the defence with a management structure that is efficient, rational and modern. There is a time when there is a need for change here at home, and for demanding challenges for our foreign forces, and in cooperation both internally in the alliance and in relation to the development of a defence and security policy in the EU, which we also face as a foreign country in that context. The EU cooperates as known more and more internally in NATO. Finally, today's suspension involves a significant commitment to the Defence. But also in the next planning period, there will be a need to further develop the defence of a modern security policy tool in an open, democratic, technological and globalised society, as today's attitude fully underlines at the end. Let me then bring up the Labour Party's proposal. I also recommend – on behalf of the Committee – the Committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e420	The representative Nybakk has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e423	Given that there is a position as a background for this debate, we could well have strictly dropped the entire debate, and we would have saved even more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e428	That's a good suggestion. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e431	First of all, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's statement. As there is a broad consensus between the Workers' Party and the government parties, the case rapporteur has covered a great many of the points in question. It is a little unusual to have a budgetary procedure at this time of year. It then relates to the change of government and to a number of other reasons that were explained in the budget proposal last year. I think it is now important to stress that the main lines of the adopted and absolutely necessary conversion of the defence are fixed, and that this conversion is not in any way delayed. The main objective, as known, is to remove the gap between structure and funding and to ensure sound financing of the structure for the whole period 2002-2005. For this reason, the Government proposes some adjustments in relation to the decision taken last year, including: through measures to reduce the costs of the structure. Migration is the main challenge for the period and involves, inter alia: to control operating costs at a robust level that can be maintained over time. In addition, the defence must be ensured a completely necessary operational level in order to be competent in relation to the full range of possible future tasks. Future tasks are, as you know, difficult to assume, not least the terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September last year. Let me remind you, for the sake of order, that such future tasks are not least a requirement for flexibility and ability to build up a larger structure than we need in today's security policy situation, if – what no one hopes – would again be necessary. When the implementation proposal was presented in April, we experienced a certain level of noise in relation to the Storting decision last year. Claims that the Government broke the assumptions for the Storting decision were made with strength, both from parts of the press, from some trade unions and not least from political competitors of different denominations. I am happy to say that the reaction to the position we are dealing with today is significantly more balanced, and that not least the defense itself sees that we have finally had predictability of the defence for the entire long-term. This has been achieved because we see that we have now come to an agreement between structure and funding, and that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is behind the main elements of the transition. There are few defence friends who will miss the annual knife on the defence appropriations. It cannot be strongly emphasised that the setting represents a strong up in terms of the defence bet. Throughout the 1990s, neither the size of the appropriations nor the size of the structure were the major problems themselves, but the fact that these amounts were not related to each other was more the case. Now the government, and today with the consent of the Storting, has adapted the structure to an economic reality, and, well, noting, without this having gone beyond the operational ability of the Defense. We have received the highest defence budget ever after the fall of the wall. The fact that you could want it even better must not explain or hide this fact. We have never hidden from the Right that we did not fully achieve the ambitions we had last year – it shows the dry speech of the numbers – but that decision was not financed, and is thus incorporated into the range of defence decisions where the verbal will is great, but where the willingness to grant is less. The defence is known by appropriations that are given to the majority — and preferably not just for one year at a time — not at all by proposals that are voted down in the Stortinget. That's why today's decision is a historic event, which gives the Defense the security for the future it so definitely needs to be able to solve its vital tasks. The co-operation government has the power to take seriously the most important challenge for defence by addressing the challenges, and through the treatment of the Biggest, we have achieved a broad majority of these solutions. Our country, a small but strategically and resourceally important peripheral country on the North flank of NATO, needs a broad consensus on defence and security policy. The Co-operation Board has laid the basis for such agreement in its proposal, and the Storting process has shown that it is possible to reach agreement, if the will for agreed solutions is greater than the will for singleness. It is too tempting to remind you that, during the budget debate last year, Marit Nybakk said, after one of my speeches, that ‘the defence-policy agreement is almost in a box’ – but, she added, we now get to ‘see when we get to spring’. The debate around the country has tried to create the impression that there is a contradiction between our national defence and the consideration of our commitments in NATO. In my view, this is an incorrect issue. Norway has experienced 50 years of security under the NATO umbrella, and it should only be lacking that, now that the direct threat to Norway is barely visible in the short and medium term, we should not participate in the arenas where world peace is threatened. To keep Norway away from global challenges, we have tried before. It was a foreign policy doctrine that was going to cost us dearly. I want to establish that there is no contradiction between our national defence and our tasks as NATO ally. It's the same forces that are supposed to defend us in both cases. NATO gives us full support in the transitions we are making to adapt defence to today's and tomorrow's security and defence challenges. The response to the challenges is a smaller but more mobile and flexible strength structure, which is adapted to the needs of the alliance in relation to the tasks we will jointly solve. That is why we are adapting all areas of defence to this. It may be claimed that the Army is somewhat less than strictly desirable, but this is more than compensated by modernisation, equipment and training. The Home Guard will be added 40 pst. more in funds than in the previous four-year period, and the coordination of BRIG 12 and FIST-H means that the effort force is now becoming part of a complete brigade and that the operational capacity of BRIG 12 is increasing significantly. Today's BRIG 12 has so far been, as you know, a pure mobilization brigade with a significant need for modernisation. The army provides good presence throughout the country, with power to North Norway, Trondelag, the Bergen region and the inner East. The army's activities are concentrated around 6th division, and most of the army's strength production takes place in Inner Troms. In the East, in particular, Rena clay and the construction of the new region area ensure the best possible education for our soldiers. Best equipment, best practice and exercises in realistic formations, including: With the use of sharp ammunition, the least we have to be able to offer is the young people who carry out their mission to our country in a particularly challenging way. I simply do not understand the way of thinking – I had almost said cynicism – to those colleagues who are agreeing to send our young people out on such assignments, but are turning back on measures that provide them with the security that only training, equipment and exercises can provide. For our national defence, securing and strengthening the northern regions is essential. There are enormous resources here, and military and visible presence in an area that can still be sensitive is of the utmost importance. That's why the Maritime Defense is the winner in this period, if we're going to first compare the weapons. It is enough to mention the large capacity of the Coast Guard, both with the new KV Svalbard, with ice capacity and helicopter, the strong build-up of the MTB weapon, both with the upgrading of the Hauk class, the delivery of new MTBs in the Shield class and after each phase of the new frigates, the build-up of the Coast Guard command on Trondenes, and the continuation of Olavs protection as base under Haakonsvern. The number of days sailing and thus the operational presence in North Norway shall be increased. Together, this will give a new dimension to our sovereignty and the exercise of authority in the northern regions. The Air Force also contributes to this by the fact that our fighter aircraft are stationed in Bodø and in Ørland, and that the Air Force Air Force flight school is being moved to Bardufoss. I also remind you that the monitoring of our long-distance coast is also carried out using a number of mobile units and technical aids, among others. Defence radar chain, Orion aircraft, electronic sensors, helicopters and the COSS coastal surveillance system. The Air Force will otherwise have its big promise when new fighter aircraft are to be acquired once after 2015, but also because a future solution for transport aircraft capacity is to be in place by 2010. In this context, we will also look at the organisation of air stations in the East. I would like to stress that we have not chosen fighter aircraft. That choice shall be made once around 2010. But I want to commend the Council of State for the action she has shown by concluding a completely necessary agreement with the JSF, so that Norwegian industry can participate in the development that we are facing. I am pleased that as a result of this setting, we have had an impact on all the essentials of what the Government is proposing. However, some so-called defeats must be tolerated by a minority government. However, in relation to the government's original proposal, we have found good solutions, including: for the Home Security, for the Voluntary Shooting Service and for the organisation of the Defence Chief Executive at Akershus. A location on Akershus is not only the best solution in a particular class, but it is also cost-effective and at the same time ensures the Defense visible presence in the capital. In general, I have only one reservation in relation to the agreement we have reached: that the Workers' Party starts the agreement to cancel NOK 1 billion on the first year's budget, we get to account for the old habit. I would like to thank the Advance Party for showing responsibility and thus cancel out the trick that the Workers' Party is trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e477	The basis for the proposal and the setting we are about to deal with today was laid exactly a year ago in St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, cf. Inner. S. No 342 for 2000-2001. The conclusion at that time was that a majority, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party and the Central Parties, chose to increase the defence structure, based on a slightly different premise. But one common denominator was clear: the parties and thus the majority advocated a stronger national defence than the then Stoltenberg government added to its proposition. This was mainly due to the fact that a brigade more than proposed would be retained, then that the Home Guard would not be reduced by 20,000 soldiers and that the protection obligation would continue. The continuation of the protection obligation was considered necessary for the national defence, but also because the defence provided by the protection obligation ensures recruitment to international forces and provides room for further training of reserve command, which is an important basis for continued mobilization defence, and which also constitutes the main weight of command to Norwegian international forces. For the marine defense, this meant that the MTB weapon was to be continued, including the new Skjold class, and that one would keep the latest stationary marine defence equipment on a low-cost basis for the next ten years. The structure of the air defence was unchanged in the main features. Norway is, unlike most other countries within NATO, a peripheral nation with large sea areas and associated airspace to be maintained. Sea areas with enormous resources and, in addition, a maritime border with a large neighbour are a major challenge. Claiming sovereignty is something a nation cannot afford, nor invite to do about it. It's only when a crisis threatens to get into a conflict that our NATO allies can be asked to contribute. This gave the previous Defence Committee the basis for its proposal for a new defence structure. Then came the election, and thus a new government. Based on the formulations of the majority at the Innst. S. No 342 and the Sem Declaration, the consequences for the Defense should be clear. In contrast to the proposed structure and its costs, which clearly deviates from the Government's own declaration of accession, the so-called Sem declaration, as well as, among other things, the adopted structure costs DKK 30.4 billion. is the basis for the support of the Advance Party to the Government, which reads: ‘The Cooperative Government will implement and finance the conversion of the Defence in accordance with the adopted structure adopted by the Storting.’ What has changed since the previous defence committee was informed of the costs of the structure adopted? With regard to defence and security policy objectives – nothing. The new is the impact of 11 September. It does not diminish the need for a credible defence and a settlement that reflects this. And we haven't. It became early clear that a settlement between the central government and the Progress Party could not be realized. To that was the distance too big – $5.6 billion in the period. 5.6 billion kroner less for the Defence was the Co-operation Government's offer, 5.6 billion dollars less than the government that nine months earlier had committed itself to by means of its own Declaration of Accession, which was thus part of the basis of the Advance Party's support. So it took nine months to break the promise. Instead, the Government has made a defence policy deal with the Workers' Party, a party that has never really been interested in a strong defence. We in the Progress Party thought last June we adopted a defence structure that would last for four years and that would give the Defence and Defence personnel the tranquility and predictability they needed to implement the decision in connection with St. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001. The progress party therefore perceives St. prp. No 55 as a rematch, and not as an implementation proposition. The government is proposing a framework of DKK 118 billion, while the Right, which has the Minister of Defence, even last June, proposed a framework of DKK 123.6 billion, which is what the Government has committed itself to in the Sem Declaration. The Government proposes, among other things: to phase down an already severely reduced army structure, to lay down the Haslemoen clay and also to reduce the structure of Homeland Protection by not rolling out the oldest and best trained personnel. This includes, inter alia: makes a defence policy settlement completely impossible with the Progress Party. The Progress Party wishes to make a rapid decision on the fighter aircraft project, and sees the need for an early decision on such acquisition in principle. We believe that the Minister of Defence in the fighting aircraft case has acted very unfairly and is very skeptical that Norway, on such a thin basis, immediately joins the development programme JSF, which in the worst case could cost the Norwegian State over NOK 1 billion without any guarantee of repurchase for Norwegian industry. The Progress Party would point out here that the Council of State, in open consultation, gave very little concrete answers to this problem. Similarly, there are now several reports in the Committee which may show that the matter is not as simple as one tries to give the impression. The Progress Party wants the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with its own proposition regarding the purchase of the fighter aircraft, where a concrete justification is given for recommending one aeroplane type over the other. The Advance Party wants to maintain the agreed structure of the Maritime Defense and indicates that the presence in Norwegian sea areas of both the Coast Guard and the Maritime Defense is of great importance for Norwegian credibility. We propose, among other things: therefore Norway continues to participate in the Viking submarine project. The coastal chain in South Norway is maintained. Olav protection consists of a war station. The strategic and operational utility of self-repair and maintenance capacity of large coastguard ships and frigates in the neighbourhoods is investigated before final decision on a long-term solution. We also refer to several proposals in this position. The Party considers that it is absolutely necessary to maintain the agreed structure. Brigade 12 is maintained as adopted and the Armed Forces force is built up to the Brigade level in the East. The 20 independent infantry companies are retained as part of the territorial defence. The operation of the Haslemoen camp continues until further notice, and the Home Guard retains the agreed structure of 83 000 soldiers. We are against the Government's proposal for passive rolling of the oldest classes of the year, and we see this as an attempt at a rematch after last year, when the then Labour Party government proposed to reduce Homeland protection to 60,000 soldiers. The government's proposal for passive roll-over now is likely to give the same result. Home security is soon the only army structure we have left, and it should be strengthened rather than reduced. We therefore want the tasks, organisation and structure of Home Affairs to be reviewed and presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. We in the Progress Party never understood the Government's proposal to deprive the volunteer shooter of the annual support, and are therefore pleased that an overall committee has now come to its senses and that the annual support is maintained. The Progress Party considers it alarming that the Government also reverses the case of integrated or co-located management of FO/FD. On 13 June last year, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, together with the Advance Party, believed that co-located structure would be the best, not least for the sake of the defence leader remaining a visible leader of the Defence Military Organisation. In a letter to the Ministry of 10 June 2002, the Chief of Defence himself said: ‘The issue of integration, which is very complex, must therefore be carefully assessed and discussed before making such a decision.’ Then it is alarming that the Stortinget before the co-location has been carried out is in favour of a model where the defence staff is integrated into the Ministry of Defence, without any kind of assessment and discussion. Similarly, it is assumed that the location will be added to Huseby in existing buildings and that the plans for new administrative buildings at Akershus will be scrapped. Finally, I would like to state that the Advance Party is basing its decisions on the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, cf. Inner. S. No 342 for 2000–2001, for the continuation of the adopted structure of defence. We therefore see it as necessary and natural to follow up the decisions taken. This implies that the economic framework must be regulated according to the structure adopted. The government provides for a reduction in the adopted structure which has serious and profound consequences for the defence. We are therefore in favour of maintaining the agreed structure, and that the budget takes this as a starting point, so that the total structural cost for the period 2002-2005 amounts to DKK 123.6 billion in 2002-krones. As has already been signaled by the representative, the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the I Decision, in order to achieve at least something. At the end of the day, I will address the suggestions from the Progress Party that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e525	Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e528	Most debates on security policy have been based in the last six months on the date of 11 September 2001, not because the terrible thing that happened this day, changed everything, but because it clearly changed our way of thinking, partly through the fear that was created. In defence circles and among people who have been particularly concerned with security policy, a long time has recognised that we are living in a time of asymmetric threats and new types of actors on the international arena that create new lines of conflict. But after 11 September, this process of thinking became more widespread in society. The Norwegian defence is still undergoing a painful process to shake off the coldest cold war in the world. Today we live in a time when it is difficult to judge who are enemies. The weapons may well be a passenger plane or a computer with a capable ‘hacker’. SV has long called for more comprehensive safety policy thinking, with more emphasis being placed on instruments other than military ones. We are therefore pleased that St.prp. No 55 states that there is much greater scope for using the full range of security policy instruments, primarily political, legal, political, diplomatic, economic, information, humanitarian and military instruments. And then the government decides: ‘The use of military power constitutes only one such instrument and, in most situations, will hardly be the dominant means of security policy.’ This is a very important recognition that we in the SV do not think is well enough reflected in the defence and security policy debate. It is also not sufficiently reflected in the case we are dealing with now, through the structural choices that are now being made. SV will spend a maximum of NOK 100 billion on the Defense during this long term. There's several reasons for that. 100 billion is more than enough to give us a military defense that defends us against the real challenges we face, which can be solved by military means. Unfortunately, military instruments are being given too much resources in the budgets, compared with all the other tools for building peace and stability that exist. SV will remove elements of the Defence that do not contribute to the security of our security. SV focuses on the enormous resources we have to manage along the coast and in our marine areas, and on the vulnerability that our society develops by becoming increasingly dependent on technology, where vulnerability is further increased through competitive pressure and privatisation. We will do something about this, rather than investing more and more money in specialized war equipment to participate in sharp military operations in Central Asia, where one may be tempted to suspect that the underlying objective is to ensure the West access to the world's largest remaining petroleum resources, as well as to maintain our goodwill. So we have major national challenges, and we should start here. Then we can continue with the challenges our neighbourhood gives us. We can use Russia as an example. Russia is not threatening Norway militarily, but the extreme social and environmental problems associated with the nuclear industry and nuclear defence can pose both direct threats to us and indirect threats to Russia's destabilization. The development of gas and oil fields on the Russian side in the north will mean increasing risk cargo along the Norwegian coast. We can say that it's okay to be afraid of Russia, but we have to be afraid of Russia in the right way. So today's solution is not a heavy invasion defense, but a set of instruments to address these different threats. In the SV's view, Norway's main contribution to preventing future conflicts is not investment in our own defence, but our economic and political choices in meeting, among other things. increasing social and environmental disparities. Contributions to peace and democracy processes are also investments in security. Norway is internationally recognised, in particular in two areas – as an energy supplier and as a humanitarian major act. As an energy supplier, we can be vulnerable to being involved in conflicts. It may be that someone wants to hit the energy supply of a country that is the recipient of e.g. Norwegian gas, or our oil installations, may point out as a spectacular target for terrorism that intends to raise awareness and create uncertainty. As far as the role of humanitarian power is concerned, it provides us with greater security, in the SV's opinion. We are a major contributor to the UN. We are a heavy player in international aid and play a part in a number of peace processes. As a result, Norway has the opportunity to play a greater role internationally than our size should be. But this, of course, makes us vulnerable, not everyone is interested in peace. SV is in favour of Norwegian soldiers participating in peacekeeping operations. But we are very sceptical if we are to build up a costly and advanced defense to win recognition and gain a foreign policy position through military involvement in international operations. We have actually been facing this election for a while now, and the majority of people have made this choice the easiest way. In many ways, the majority of population have said yes, both of them – without a thorough debate on what role Norway should play, and without asking why we are playing the role we have to choose. In a short time until we are responsible for bombing in Afghanistan and clearing explosives to contribute to peaceful development. It is incomprehensible that no more parties than SV are concerned about this double role. SV believes that Norway should cultivate the role of humanitarian power. That is why we are very critical of Norway's participation in both building peace and waging war in Afghanistan. We are very critical of the demands that are raised for upgrading in order for countries in Europe to match the U.S. war machine. At the end of the day, it's not to get away from the fact that money spent on military armaments is at the expense of money that can be used to prevent crises and conflicts and create social protection. The question has to be how to get the most peace for the money, and not how much money we can spend on weapons. The majority are going to decide today that 118 billion kroner will be spent on defence in the coming years. In the SV's view, this is far from $20 billion too much, and it is also very uncertain whether the majority framework will hold. A look back over the last four to five years shows that the defence has managed to waste billions of dollars on meaningless projects. I would like to mention, for example: The coastal forts Rødbergodden and Malangen, which were upgraded around 2000 for 50 million, respectively. NOK 259 million. NOK, then to be cancelled so to speak immediately. Unfortunately, a number of examples could be mentioned. A look ahead shows that there are a number of projects under planning where the final sum is in reality unknown and where cost gaps are likely. If the 118 billion is to be kept, at least the bulk of the population must stand up to say that this is the framework and that the defence of cost gaps must remain within this framework. In the setting, SV promotes several proposals that aim to help control the use of resources in the Defence. We propose, among other things: that the Government strengthens the civil element of the Defence Project and Logistics Organisations. In addition, SV promotes proposals involving the scrapping of several billion projects which have the common view that the benefits of the Norwegian defence seem uncertain, and the final price tag as well. Some attempts have been made to improve the management of the defence resource use. The establishment of the Defence Logistics Organisation is, in the SV's opinion, an important contribution. However, we ask whether the tool needed by the FLO to meet the expectations of more efficient resource use, the IT system GOLF, could be delivered in time. I would also like to ask the Secretary of Defense why in the world one has to buy the most expensive equipment, once a programme has already been developed that can easily be developed into a common system. The frigate project is renouncing itself as a new, comprehensive, scandalous project. The head of the frigate project, Commander Per Erik Göransson, said to Today’s Business on 7 May that the total cost is now set to be ‘over 20 billion’. SV sent a written question to the Minister of Defence about this and was told that she expected someone to stay within the agreed framework. It would have been interesting if the Minister of Defense today could confirm that she would not accept such dramatic cost growth in the frigate project. The conditions for the 1999 decision of the Grand Duchy on the establishment of the Eastern Region have been substantially changed. The army is now so severely reduced that there is no need for more shooting areas in the country. Quality of the established shooting areas in the north is as good as in the Eastern Region when adopted adjustment plans have been implemented. The Nordic practice areas are better quality, because the Navy, the Army and the Air Force can perform exercises, which will be impossible in the new region field. This means that departments trained in the East have to be sent to North Norway for further training in order to achieve the necessary quality. The new Nordic defence agreement of 23 April this year opens up joint exercises and the development of a Nordic brigade. This means that Swedish and Northern Norwegian shooting areas will be open to all Nordic countries, and new major fields will become redundant. The Government has not provided the Stortinget with any information on the consequences of the new Nordic agreement. A new needs analysis can show that the Redsmoen shooting range at Rena — possibly with small extensions — can be enough to meet the needs of the East. Investigations outside the Defence Agency have estimated that the start-up costs of the Eastern Region could exceed DKK 5 billion. The assumptions for the region field of Eastern Europe have changed greatly, so much so that, in the SV's opinion, it is unwarrantable to expand the field, and I take this up proposal No. 8 from the Center Party and SV. There have been a number of fatal accidents in the last years in which the weapons of protection have been involved, and the defense itself has investigated and recommended that these weapons be locked with locks. In proposal No 23 proposes SV to ask the Government to initiate the introduction of locks on the HV weapons in private homes. This proposal is similar to that proposed by the government parties themselves in the proposal, and which they now, as a consequence of the agreement with the Workers' Party, must vote against. It is very unfortunate that this proposal, which is a cheap insurance against new tragic accidents, does not seem to be adopted. SV also supports a number of the majority proposals, including: means of saving in the Home Guard other than through passive roll-over and continued support to the Voluntary Shooting Service. Finally, I would like to raise the SV's proposal and ask for the proposals to be credited to the right proposal provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e587	The representative of Bjørklund has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e590	The government parties and the Workers' Party have had a historic defence settlement, and the main thing is a balance between structure and resources. With great boldness I claim: it had to be girls to make it! With a Council of State from the Right, a committee leader from the Workers' Party, a Vice-Chairman from the Christian People's Party and a parliamentary leader from the Left, we got it into good cooperation with boys! The result is that the defense is secured $118 billion over a four-year period. The women's share of the defense is too low. The goal is 7 pst. the share of women in command and 13 pst. the proportion of female civil leaders in the Defence by 2005. The defense must work actively both to improve recruitment and to keep the women who are already in Defense. Defence must be willing to use non-traditional and new instruments to achieve these objectives. The Christian People's Party therefore looks at the proposal in the Committee on Obligations on Sessions for Women as very interesting. Together with other measures, it could increase the recruitment of women. Women in Defence have an important role both nationally and not least internationally, e.g. in peacekeeping forces. Nationally, it is about getting a conscious view of what total defence is all about, in the important work the whole society needs to take part in in order to ensure good social security. I refer to representatives Nybakk and Hernæs, who have had good wording on important matters, and I choose not to repeat all that has already been said. The total amount of the defence will be DKK 118,039 billion during the 2002-2005 conversion period. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that there is consistency between the tasks: structure and appropriations. That balance sheet is in place now, and it will give the Defense the necessary reassurance to carry out the extensive conversion they are in progress. The Christian People's Party wants a modern and flexible defence. Today's threat picture is broad and diffuse, with moving transitions between national and international, and between peace, crisis, armed conflict and war. When NATO adopted its strategic concept in 1999, the new threat picture was drawn: terrorist networks, international crime, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. It is necessary to recognise the wide range of social areas that need to be involved in national preparedness for terrorism. The Christian People's Party believes that social security and anti-terrorism preparedness must become a central task of defence. Attention needs to be paid to cooperation between civil and military preparedness within a comprehensive defence concept. The Christian People's Party believes that the restructuring and modernisation of the defence will help to strengthen the defence's ability in the context of anti-terrorism. This theme will also be discussed in connection with St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, on social security, which is being discussed jointly by the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee. The Christian People's Party belongs to the majority who are now in favour of the defence chief being integrated into the Ministry of Defence. The Defence Manager shall have two parallel functions, as top military adviser in the Department and as head of military organisation of the Defence. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the guiding principle of a new Integrated Ministry of Defence must be the pooling of competences and the completion of tasks in one integrated process, and that the Integrated Department should consist of fully integrated civil-military departments. It is assumed that the planning activities will mainly take place in these departments and that the defence staff will be limited. A visible and strong head of defence remains important and the public must continue to have access to his qualified and independent professional-military assessments. I have realized that Haslemoen's camp needs to be laid down, and that it will happen by 31 July 2004. When both professional and economic conditions indicate that the Army does not need Haslemoen in the future, it is right to make the decision now. The activities of Haslemoen shall be gradually stepped down. It is positive that all civil and military employees have been given a different job in Østerdalen garrison, and it is important that Våler municipality now uses the opportunities that exist to establish new jobs in the municipality. The Christian People's Party is opposed to the proposal to passively roll the oldest classes of the Heimevertet and will instead leave to the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the head of defence and the Inspector-General of the Heimevertet, to design an annual training scheme that better meets the needs of the Heimevertet. The Christian People's Party has accepted that there is still a majority of the Region Field East, and we're not going to rematch it. But the more important it becomes to us, the work the defense is doing to avoid environmental pollution. Equally important is open dialogue and respect for those who are concerned and who very strongly want State pollution control to lay down the conditions of concession for the use of the Eastern region before the works in the field begin. The Defence Committee and the Justice Committee have, as I mentioned, St.meld. No 17 on social security for treatment now. It is also about the path to a less vulnerable society, and there is an extra focus on both environmental and water quality. It is very important to look at vulnerability, among other things. in order to achieve a more conscious attitude and will in society to limit pollution to water in general and drinking water sources in particular. Water shall be considered in line with other foodstuffs. Therefore, run-off must be taken very seriously and the use of toxic substances and chemicals must be restricted or eliminated. It must also apply to field of fire. This holistic approach is a challenge for the authorities, including for us big-scale politicians and for political leadership in government. Impact assessments and concessions for pre-development emissions are important instruments that should be used strictly, including for the defence part. The Christian People's Party expects these main challenges to be properly addressed through the internal control system established in relation to the Eastern Region. Finally, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the annual support for the Voluntary Shooter Service is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e621	There is an attitude, so we might as well have dropped the entire debate, the representative Bjørn Hernæs started his speech by saying. Now it is actually so that in most cases there is a setting. But when that is said, I understand very well that the representative, Hernæs, would have liked to have seen that we had released this debate in the Chamber today, and that one could have stuck the position in a drawer, where it had been overlooked in silence and not received the public's attention. The so-called implementation proposition must be called the bellyplate of time for a party that has become a spokesman for greater defence than most of the others in all years, and has seen it as its ambition to compete with the Progress Party on this arena. It must also be said to be the stomach pad of the times for a state council that was high on the track two to three days after the government change last autumn, at least, and if I don't remember a lot of mistakes, it was among other things. said we didn't need 48, but 72, fighter planes, and that these at the top of it all were to be financed outside any defense framework. What we now see as a result of the agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party must be sure to be the downfall of the times for the government parties, and especially for the Right. You should not read much in today's setting until you also see this. I would particularly like to point out on page 7 of the vote, where I quote from the comments of the majority: ‘The majority will emphasise that the Defence will still have a strong national territorial function in resource monitoring and sovereignty enhancement. However, the majority will place a decisive emphasis on cross-border cooperation in order to reduce vulnerability and strengthen the capacity of international and allied interaction.’» It's a strong focus shift for the Right Party compared to what you said in the setting exactly a year ago. I don't take the trouble to quote from the setting a year ago, but it says the exact opposite. There, the Right claims to keep national defence in focus and that international tasks need to be complementary in areas where we have special competence to participate in international tasks. Many people claim that September 11 gives a new dimension to the challenges we face. Of course, it does, but the 11th of September last year shows that there is still a need to be able to respond quickly – not primarily to attacks from another country, but to possible terrorist attacks. The ability to react quickly is reduced by the change that the Defense is now in. What is being built up is the ability to engage in acts of war against those who have already committed acts of terrorism or attacked other nations, as we are now doing in Afghanistan. In the opinion of the Centre Party, our most important task will continue to be linked in international terms to the efforts we can make within the country's borders. I am thinking about the management and control of our vast seas and northern regions. Our main task also in the international context is to avoid conflict build-up and avoid crisis-like situations in this vulnerable area where huge resources are available. It will have much greater value also for the alliance and for our collaborators, than being able to engage in conflicts around the world where they had to arise. So to some areas within the setting that I would like to comment in particular. I find it very regrettable that the majority of the committee is now proposing such a strong reduction in coastal surveillance as is being done. The central party therefore wants to maintain the Kystradar South, and we want to establish a maritime surveillance centre at Reitan. The majority of this Committee and the majority of the European Parliament today are in stark contrast to what has been pointed out through the Vulnerability Communication on the need to have a strong coastal surveillance and to strengthen this part. So you can't see the resources of society as a whole. The defence builds up the expertise and resources that have been invested over many years, so that we can probably end up in the harvest deciding that this should be built on a civil basis. The central party also strongly disagrees with the majority that is now adopting with regard to Home Affairs. I don't understand how it's going to be possible to maintain a strength of 83,000 men without adding increased appropriations. I'm afraid this is going to lead to us not ending up with passive rolling of 23,000 men, but of 83,000 men. [[President clubs]] I am addressing the proposals where the Central Party is the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e645	Odd Roger Enoksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e648	The safety situation in Norway has changed dramatically over the past 10–12 years. The former Communist states of Eastern Europe and Russia have gone from representing a direct military threat to being democratic partners, even allies, when it comes to Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. The direct threat to Norwegian territory has been reduced. I belong to a marine generation that grew up in the 1970s and 1980s where thoughts about world war and nuclear war were a natural part of growing up. The lines were clear, everything was black and white, and the enemy was someone you could point to the map and show where was. At the same time, the world has become more unpredictable in the last ten years, with completely different lines of conflict and tensions developing. The unreal and cruel acts of terror against New York and Washington on 11 September last year brought this to the surface. On 11 September, a mental barrier broke, actions that could not even be expected to take place in the past, we now have to prepare for and take action against. It's almost impossible to exaggerate the significance of September 11. This date represents the definitive end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century. – a much more uncertain world, where Norway is part of an international coalition against terrorism. Since 11 September 2001, everything has changed. Norwegian defence must be seen in such a new international context, where it is faced with completely different challenges and tasks than before. The need to work internationally, in cooperation with other countries, is much greater today than in the past. Cooperation is important, and Norway is actively entering into and defining its own role in relation to what we have called the fight against terrorism. As an ally, Norway must and must participate with military means within the framework of what is natural. However, the fight against terrorism can never be won if the main focus is on military resources alone. The fight for democracy and human rights, and against poverty and environmental damage, is absolutely necessary and much more important if we are to have the hope of winning the fight against terrorism. It is in such an overall perspective that Norway must define its role in the fight against terrorism. The left believes, unlike SV, that that balance is important, and that you can't just bet on one thing. The left is well pleased that this implementation proposition provides the Defence for the first time in a long time resources consistent with the tasks expected of the Defence. It assumes that the change in defence is in order to prepare for a new international reality. This change was postponed for too many years in the 1990s, but is now well implemented. The left today is pleased that a broad majority forms the main framework for defence policy and that for years to come, the defence can operate within a predictable and adequate economic framework. The most important thing today may not be the single decision, but the width behind it. That means that we have all given a little – the left has given a little of the environmental concerns we want to have done, that we now need to build a dock where we think private could have done the work just as well. In relation to the individual parts of the proposition, I would like to highlight in particular the increased importance of Home Protection in the strategic thinking of Defence. In future, home security will be the most important element of Norway’s territorial defence. Home protection must therefore be provided with increased resources and materials consistent with that task. In relation to the international challenges I have mentioned earlier, it is clear that a home security system that knows the local environment, that knows people in that local environment, and that knows the local structures, is much more effective than some elite group that comes from outside. The left is also pleased that the Committee has found the means to continue to support the Voluntary Shooting Service, which, in the left context, has a tradition of over a hundred years. However, it is far more important that this is also a good investment for the defence some day, especially by making use of the Musketeer's network and well maintained shooting paths. Finally, I would like to mention the plans for a new building in connection with Akershu's fastening. For the Left, it is very important that such a new building, if any, be placed and designed in close cooperation with the Riksantik product. The defense has always been part of the city of Oslo. Akershu’s fastening is one of the city’s most important sites, and a new building in this area must be gentle, so that it continues to be an exit point for the city’s citizens and for tourists. The defense and Oslo are linked, and we don't need any conflict in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e669	It's sad to see that St.prp. No 55 are being addressed now, when we know that the Vulnerability Communication will not be addressed until October of this year, despite the fact that both messages affect the same vital areas related to the protection of society. The treatment of the Storting will now easily lead to today’s decisions leading to the work of the autumn on the vulnerability message. I don't want to take the time in those areas where there is broad agreement between the parties, but I want to put the search light on a couple of important areas that seem to have passed some of each house in the course of the treatment. As the representatives probably remember, it was for approx. a year ago assessed the need to coordinate coastal preparedness and monitoring resources in order to ensure better preparedness. There was a great deal of agreement about this in the opposition, and the government also finally realized that something had to be done. This resulted in a so-called action plan. The Ministry of Defence was entrusted with the task of addressing the needs of the authorities in relation to the monitoring of the coast. This work has recently been completed and the only conclusion is that there is a need to link information from all coastal management departments, thereby ensuring a better monitoring picture, i.e. precisely what the maritime surveillance center was going to do. The fact that the coastal radar chain is to be closed and that no monitoring centre is to be set up seems to be the result of what one of the members of the committee has understood, namely that within the defence there seems to be a high degree of rivalry between the branches. In St. prp. No 55 shows that the Defence continues to be responsible for the sovereignty of the sea areas and for the enforcement of sovereign rights in the adjacent waters. Despite this, and despite previous government leaders and large-scale efforts to increase monitoring capacity in order to ensure more effective enforcement, it is therefore proposed to reduce capacity. It is also claimed that small green men argue that there is no military interest in monitoring the maritime areas. Such opinions should make the alarm clock ring too full. What they're really saying is that the main task, sovereignty, is not going to be taken care of. One might wonder where this category of officers has gone to school. At the same time, the Vulnerability Communication states that Defence needs to increase coastal monitoring capacity. The coastguard was in time put into the defense. This was justified by the well-developed command and control apparatus of the Defence Agency. The coasters are part of this apparatus. After all, without an effective command and control apparatus that allows for an overview of its own geographical area of responsibility, the argument for keeping the Coast Guard in the Defence Sector falls. Perhaps one day it should be transferred to another department. Similar assessment is also made with our greatest allies. The Coastal Party knows that there is a great deal of disagreement in the General Command of the Defence Force as to whether the Coastal Chain should be shut down and whether there is a need for a surveillance centre. Orders have been issued from the highest level in the Defence Command to reduce military needs for enhanced surveillance and to highlight civil needs. The background to this is a wishful thinking that the civil service should meet the need for surveillance of the defence so that the tasks of the defence can be more cost-effective. The Inspector General of the Maritime Defense Department has himself stated that the ability to promote sovereignty is frighteningly low – notice that it is not frighteningly low in order to ensure an effective level of sovereignty, but in relation to a minimum. For a coastal state such as Norway, this can only be described as a scandal. Thus, while it is not possible to afford to make investments that ensure that the main task is solved, the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence – preferably the staff of the Department – want a joint strategic management, located in connection with Akershu’s fastening. Of course, new building needs to be built, despite the fact that there is all a large and relatively modern building in Huseby. This is a good example of how to put consumption ahead of nutrients. After all, it's not the sharp end that's being strengthened. In view of this, the Coastal Party proposes that the closure of the Kystradar Chain in South Norway be awaited pending the processing of the Vulnerability Communication — while continuing to address the need for a maritime surveillance centre. Since the Coastal Party is not in the Committee, we support the proposal of the Centre Party, which addresses this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e690	The representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen of the Christian People's Party indicated that there was a need for women to reach the agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party. Now I hope we can also get women into the defense. I'm appointed by the Stortinget in an introductory class at War School, where we couldn't reach the defense chief's goal of 7 pst. women. So we're just going to hope that the women will also enter the Defense and not just rule the Defense. The implementation proposal is a comprehensive document, covering several aspects of defence. The government parties and the Workers' Party have agreed on the structure and economic framework of the Defence for the current four-year period, and I am pleased about that. It's important for the Defense. It was expected: the government parties discovered that they had promised more in opposition than they could hold in position. The financial framework is $5.6 billion lower than the bulk of the population, including the current government parties, entered last year. It's a little higher than the Stoltenberg government suggested. This result should be satisfied with the defence. I assume that the agreement between the defence and the politicians has finally been made, and the one that we are willing to grant for the purpose year after year. Now the defense's management in return has no excuse not to carry out the conversion that we are now adopting. For too long, the Norwegian defence has had a structure better suited to meet the threat of the Cold War than the post-war threat. This year it's been 13 years since the Wall fell. I hope that the changes to be made will give us a defence as best as possible to fit the new threat picture, where the centre of gravity is shifted from April 9th to September 11th. Developing a defence that guarantees both the Norwegian territory, also in view of the fact that the East/West image can change again and that can make a necessary contribution to international operations in line with the new role of NATO, requires a transition at all levels. The defense we're now going to get becomes sharper, more competent and more effective. There will be fewer officers in the staff, fewer foot soldiers and more experts. More of the annual appropriations can be invested in increasingly sophisticated and expensive weapon systems and less for running operations. The over-command of the defence is dropped, and the defence leadership moves into the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence – and that's good. I have to say a few words about my baby in this implementation proposition: the need to build an expanded dock for frigates in Fridtjof Nansen class at Haakonsvern in Bergen, which is the Nordic's largest maritime station. I'm a little surprised by the resistance to expanding the dock. A picture was created that there was plenty of workshop capacity in several places. As far as I know, there is only one yard that today has large enough dock to receive the new frigates and the new coastguard ship «Svalbard». After all, it is not the case that the extension of Haakonsvern would not have ring-fenced effects on the civil industry in the region today. Today is 47 pst. by the work of the Haakonsververn in the private market. So the new and expanded dock on Haakonsvern is good for the Defense and for all suppliers in civil business – and that's good. The binding agreement between the parties to the Government and the Workers' Party provides a good starting point for a reasonable level of work to be ensured after a long period with the opposite effect, both for management and for the thousands of staff responsible for implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e709	I also noticed the representative Wisløff Nilssen's reference to the four women. I don't belong to those who necessarily believe that women are more peaceful than men, but I've heard that someone thinks that women can be more solution-oriented than men. And this has been the case here, because it has been a constructive and solution-oriented process that has led us to the setting we have today – an attitude that I am very pleased with. The reason for this is that when the Government took over in October 2001, we faced more difficult defence policy challenges than for a long time. The world was shaken after the U.S. outburst, and the government followed up with concrete contributions in the form of important Norwegian military force efforts in and around Afghanistan. Trust in Norway as an ally is important. NATO solidarity was tested, and we delivered. And if we hadn't delivered, the whole foundation for the defence of Norway, namely our NATO membership, had been threatened. We never have a Norwegian defense that we have to do everything by ourselves. But we also strengthen the indirect defence of Norway by showing that we meant something about NATO solidarity. Both the events of last fall and the wars in the Balkans in the 1990s showed that today's credible defence capabilities are about being able to set up at short notice with modern and flexible units and departments that can cooperate with other countries' forces, whether there is cooperation in our territory or out. It is essential to modernise and adapt ourselves in time and to invest in the right capacities, so that the defence can meet tomorrow's challenges. It's not just on the road we're going to claim, as some say. The efforts we make outside the country’s borders do not only contribute to international peace and stability. Equally important is that it forces us to meet reality's demands for modern military forces. It gives us valuable knowledge and experience that we're going to need if we get a crisis on our own doormat. The implementation proposal is the Government’s response to how best to meet today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. Our participation in Afghanistan and Kosovo shows that we have strengths that are good enough, and the attitude that is being addressed today provides a basis for getting even better, both at home and outside. There is a need for a balance between structure and funding. It will in itself give greater serenity to the necessary conversion that is in full swing. Today's settlements have succeeded in obtaining historically high funds for the Defence, and it is noticed by our allies. Every three heads are going to be invested. It's completely in line with NATO's objective. The decision to make the Army's part of the Armed Forces and Brigade 12 a full-fledged brigade contributes to the ability of strategic and tactical movement, and the operational capacity of the brigade significantly increases in relation to today's Brigade 12. We're getting a new field of shooting and drill in the East. It provides a unique opportunity for the realistic exercise of Army departments in South Norway compared to the past. And realistic exercises are a prerequisite for us to operate on it. We also get a significantly better seagoing capacity with new frigates, MTB Skjold class etc. Here is the sailing and training pattern to be added up in order to accommodate the presence in priority areas. Overall, the operational presence of the Naval Defence Agency in North Norway shall be increased, not reduced. Furthermore, strategic transport and tanker capacity shall be further explored and disposed of by 2010. Before that happens, we have to have an interim solution, which we'll get closer to. We are also getting the integration of the Ministry of Defence and the top military management. I have no problem seeing that the objectives we expect to achieve by co-location can also be achieved by integration. And because the question was investigated in connection with last year's treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001, we don't start on the bar. So it's been an acceptable piece of a deal with the Workers' Party. A majority of the Committee would like to see an annual training scheme better suited to the needs of Home Protection than the passive rolling of the older classes of the year, and it will be followed up. The amendments granted to the majority are in accordance with the main lines of the Government’s approach. We're moving in at about 300 million. NOK 118 billion in total. At the same time, there has been a great willingness to find discovery for the millions who, after all, are being moved. What I give the most attention to is that in the Committee, it is a majority that subscribes to the Government's proposal for a financial framework. That's what you didn't do last year. The job was not completed. I would also like to commend the Progress Party for supporting subsidiaryly the additional billion we need this year in order to start the funding increases for this four-year period. I think that's what I'm done cleanly. I don't think of this case as a saying just to the government. It is a victory for all those who have participated in reaching agreement and who have contributed to majority solutions, each in their own fields. There has been a good tradition in Norway with broad agreement on the main defence policy issues and priorities. That tradition has won a victory today. I'm very, very pleased with the result. Why was it so important to succeed with this right in ours? Well, it's not just because of September 11th, but it's also because of the processes that started on September 11th, among other things. in NATO. We have had the first meeting of the NATO-Russia Council 14 days ago – in a much more constructive tone than what we experienced at a similar meeting just a year ago. We have just had a NATO meeting that has given full support to a full review of NATO's strength structure, a full review of how NATO works to improve efficiency, a NATO meeting that said yes to a tighter focus on DCI, on what is important investment capacity, which NATO does not have. And we had a NATO meeting where it was emphasised what is now important for all countries: restructuring the defence to meet the future tasks, increasing the appropriations and increasing the investment share. That's what we've done. Furthermore, the NATO meeting underlines that each country must have great mobility, deplorableness, in its forces. We need to have an increased response capacity. We need to have greater interoperability. Land must be able to operate together because it is absolutely fundamental, also in order to defend your own country. You must be able to accept help. And what other small countries have to do? Well, they have to work together where each country is too small to provide credible capacities, like on the air. "Pooling of forces," I call it. And there is Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands, which are also being held up in NATO, on how small countries can ensure that our air defence is relevant because we work closely with others. What are the other small countries going to do? Well, we're going to specialise. We're going to take advantage of our comparative advantage, both to have a strong defence of our own territory and to be able to contribute relevant within the alliance. That is what we do when we use our experience from Kosovo to clear mines in Afghanistan with a capacity that other NATO countries do not have. And then it's secondary whether it happens under the control of Operation Enduring Freedom, which is primarily composed of NATO countries, or whether it happens under the control of the ISAF force. We're clearing mines, and we're doing explosive cleanup that helps those who are trying to build a new democracy in Afghanistan. It's important, in addition to Article 5, the requirement of NATO solidarity, which triggered us to leave. I have received some questions or comments through the debate that I hope I can sign out in the reply box. The most important thing for me is that this is a happy day, that both the four women and the other committee have succeeded in a historic settlement. This is the first time an amount – in II of the Decision – has been adopted in the Chamber for the four-year period! This is the first time the defense has been predictable for four years. That's the jam reason to celebrate. And it doesn't make it any less that there's also a woman in the president's office! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e758	The President is very open to flattery! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e763	I want to join that Council of State that ended with. I think that the process that has led to this agreement has been solution-oriented, as the Council of State said, and has also given results. I guess that's also the case with us girls that we're a little bit stubborn about getting things done. We did that, even though it was a bit tough sometimes. I have a completely different question to the Council of State. New fighter aircraft are to be acquired if approx. 15 years. I said in my post that I am not now prepared to take a stand on what kind of aircraft to buy – the technological development taking into account. So that's another 15. The Ministry has now decided to continue a development agreement with Joint Striker from 1996, and I would like to state that I agree that this is the Government's jurisdiction. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that Norwegian industry can be integrated into this development programme, which will amount to 300 million during the planning period. kr – i.e. for the current four-year period, for which we are now adopting the framework. We believe that if the Norwegian industry does not get the necessary commitment, the agreement should be terminated quickly, as the agreement also opens up. But I see quite clearly that if we are not included, at least Norwegian industry will not come in here, and then Dutch industry will benefit from this. I would also like to ask whether the Government will continue to monitor the development of the options, which are French Rafale and European Eurofighter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e774	I share the opinion of committee leader Marit Nybakk, that it is too early to take a realistic position on the choice of fighter aircraft now. I also share the committee leader's view that it is important to keep in touch with all the alternative fighter aircraft suppliers that we know are current. I must also say, for the sake of my Swedish colleague, Björn von Sydow, that the Swedish plane is also an alternative that is highlighted, especially from our neighbouring country. The most important thing about the Government's decision to continue cooperation with the JSF is to give Norwegian industry the opportunity to enter as quickly as Dutch industry, Danish industry. We know that the governments of these two countries made a decision before we made ours, and that was also an important lead for us to make a decision when we did. At the same time, I would like to stress that it was announced both in the budget proposal presented in the autumn and in the implementation proposal presented on 5 April that the Government could take such a decision either in the spring of 2002 or during 2002. I have a little reservation for the committee leader's line – but I think it was just a forgetfulness. We must take account of industrial needs, but we must also be allowed to take account of operational, defence needs. And for the defense, we start there: what do we need operationally defensively? Then we take the next point: how do we guarantee industry the best possible access to deliveries in relation to the alternatives we have? I am very pleased with the comments made by the Committee, because they are going to come in handy when we are going to negotiate with the US authorities about the industry's opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e783	Then the President will release a male representative!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e786	Thank you for that! It is good to know where you stand! I wanted to ask the council about dry docks. It's in the proposition: ‘The Government does not propose to build a new and extended dock for the frigates of the Fridtjof Nansen class at HOS’ – Haakonsvern warlogsstation.’An external consultant has ensured the quality of this construction project. In its report, the company concludes that it would be clearly more economically viable to rent civil capacity than to build a new military dry dock on HOS.’The conclusion states: ‘The defense will purchase necessary yard services in open competition on the civil market.’– Nevertheless, the government parties, including the Right, have opted for ‘investment in new and expanded frigate docks at Haakonsvern – cf. V. of the Decision. This I think is a little bit strange. Then I have to ask: has the Council changed its mind altogether? Has the Government been completely flat for the Workers' Party? And how is this to be defended against the shipbuilding industry along the coast? How can this defend the fundamental view of the Right vis-à-vis the private sector? So here it's going to be put up to a monopoly rather than a monopoly. I must also ask: does the Council of State feel particularly comfortable in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e809	I'm tempted to make a confession – and then I might begin by saying that in addition to all the qualities that women are given in this room today, we have another quality: we're not so afraid to admit that we don't win every time. I'm going to give Width quite right in that my original view was that there were other things that were more important than this frigate investment. That was also the government's view, and we made suggestions on it. But I would also like to say that in the very good negotiating climate we have had, it has been important to find unifying solutions. And even though both the Department of Defence's management and the Department of Defence have felt that other things were more important than the frigate dock, within the Maritime Defense Department, there has been quite an open desire to get this investment. Then at least there is a comfort to me to know that this is being financed by re-posting the investment budget of the Maritime Defence Agency. The marine defense has financed something they want more with something they want less, and the balance is maintained. I thought it was to live with to make a good deal. As I said, we're moving in at $300 million. SEK of a frame of 118 million. NOK, and then we have included that we maintain the support for the Musketeer. It's an absolute settlement that's to live with, and well that. I do not exclude that in the future external missions related to our frigates will also be carried out in private shipyards. The maritime defence has a basic attitude to cancel a mission. But I realize that the Maritime Defense now believes that they will at least be better able to meet expertise needs, which they believe they can better cover than external ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e818	This is the case with the fighter aircraft project that has been mentioned recently. Israel has been heavily involved in the JSF project both on the authority side and through the Israeli industry in the first phase of this project. The Israeli authorities have asked for continued participation in Phase 2 in the same way as Norway, and there are high expectations from the Israeli side. Is the Council of State still of the opinion that Israel has been refused to join the next phase of this project, and does the Council of State have no concern that Norwegian industry is invited, without any guarantees, to deliver technology to a project in which Israeli industry and Israeli authorities are heavily involved? Another question is: does this not challenge our export rules in that area in such a way that the Storting should be consulted further before the conclusion of the development agreement? In addition, I have to ask the Minister of Defense again, since she herself raised the question: What operational requirements are to be imposed on the aircraft we are going to buy in 15 years' time? Is there today's desire to contribute to more international operations in the future that weigh more heavily, or is there any desire to strengthen capacity in relation to ground bombing that weighs more heavily on the Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e827	These were two big questions in a short time, so I'll try to make it as short as I can. First, we have a clear assurance from the management of the JSF that Israel has not been allowed to participate as a partner, as Norway has been given, in what is called SDD stage 3. So to a question related to this issue, whether I feel that there is no problem that there may be Israeli subcontracting in a future product that we had to buy – it could be fighter aircraft, it could be other defence investments. I have said this quite clearly in the past: we have no action boycott with Israel. International industry is closely intertwined, and there could be subcontracting and components in most of the industrial products we buy, which can also come from Israel. The Norwegian attitude is that where we deal with Germany, the United States or other countries, we do not make any absolute demands that there should be no components whatsoever from Israel. We have one thing later today, where the SV and the Senter Party want a stricter import regime against Israel. We get to take that debate there, but there is no support for such a boycott line in the Norwegian Storing or in the Government, as I know SV could imagine. So to what goes on the operational requirements of the future fighter aircraft. It is difficult to answer it as short as time permits, but I will protest at the description that the choice between air to ground-capacity or air to air-capacity is equal to the choice between being out and bombing or being at home and looking after their country. It's a problem that's not right. It's about, we've gone from an old-fashioned air to air-concept, as part of our defense, to a forward-looking maneuvering concept that puts greater emphasis on air to ground-capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e838	The reason we're going from the old air to the air concept to another concept – I don't remember the name used by the defence minister, but it doesn't matter – is an international orientation. I have problems imagining a situation where we were going to use Norwegian fighter aircraft for air to ground targets on Norwegian territory. But we might come back to that a little bit later in the debate. I have two other questions that I would like to have the views of the Council of State. One is the following problem: there are some things we have to have within the Defense, and then there are some things that are fun to have. Let me give you an example of what we need: we need personnel if we're going to have a Norwegian defense. Example of things that are fun to have is a short way to Stortinget. I understand that the Council of State has put considerable emphasis on the last time she wants to integrate the new defence leadership into the Ministry of Defence at Akershu's fortress area. My first question to the Minister of Defence is: Does the Minister of Defence think it really makes sense to invest at least 300 million. kr on a fun to have a project that involves a short way to the Storting, in the resource situation in which the Defense will be located, also with the settlement that is being made today? My second question to the Minister of Defense goes to the Heimevertet. The government proposed passive rolling of 23000 men and a reduction in the appropriations of 630 million. kr. The majority say we shouldn't have passive rolling. We're going to keep the number of 83,000 men, and we're going to cut, as the government suggests, 630 million. kr. Could the Minister of Defence please describe the consequences of maintaining the 83,000 crew force with a budget of 630 million. KR lower?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e853	In the case of passive rolling, the essence of criticism of the Government's proposal was from among others. The protection itself, that as we had formulated it, ‘passive rolling of the older classes of the year’, it could be difficult to use orders that were important to exercise. Then it's important that we are so open that we say that we accept that GIHV and others can be involved in designing the exercise concept that Home Security is going to use, within the cost frameworks that the majority have chosen. The details of what that solution will look like after we have had a dialogue with, among other things. The leadership of the defense about that. In the case of item 2, Akershus, it is not “good to have”. One thing is that all the departments are located in the Oslo center, but if we also look at the cost, it's that Akershu's fortification is a public property. It is a property to be maintained, kept and used. It will never be appropriate to sell out parts of Akershu's fastening, fortunately. The building on Huseby can be sold. That means that in a total calculation it will always be so that building on or adapting existing building mass in a corner of Akershus is economically more favourable than moving everyone up to Huseby, because Huseby can be sold. So it's going to be a net positive. But the cultural here is actually also very important to me. I know that both the Riksantikvar and others have expressed themselves in the same direction. Not many people can take care of the Akershus environment in the future. The defense is one of those who can do it. Having used the Akershus area, opening it up even more to the city's population, has an independent cultural significance that is important to me, and therefore cooperation with the Riksantikvar is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e862	The conversion that we are now discussing will also mean the disposal of buildings and installations in the Defence. I just want to point out that the Budget Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs. Inner. S. No 2 for 2001-2002 said: «The majority refers to the proposal in St.prp. No 1 under AAD's building and property powers, where the Government of Stoltenberg proposed that a King should be empowered to dispose of State properties at a price lower than the market price, paying particular attention to them. [[2001-2002]] The majority consider such a proposal to be an important tool to ensure reasonable accommodation for students/youth, initial establishment and disadvantaged. The majority have noticed that the price level of the dwellings offered for sale, among others. in Pilestredet Park and the Fornebu area is high and does not cover the need for reasonable housing.’;» I am aware that the applicable instructions for the disposal of real estate in the country are prescribed by one kgl. the resolution of 19 December 1997 and, in principle, must also be followed by the Defence. So my question to the Council of State is: Will she take an initiative that disposal, especially of building in the Defense, may benefit the parties mentioned above?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e879	Here I'd like to signal a little more basic scepticism. It has several reasons. Firstly, it is in the framework of 118 billion kroner, which is hopefully adopted today, provided that we sell a good deal of land and properties to finance new buildings and new investments where we need it. Having a gift sale in connection with land that the Defense is going to sell means that we are actually weakening our own balance, at least if we don't know that there will be more money coming in from somewhere. We have a rather tough migration programme, where concentration in fewer places also implies the need for initial investment. It is therefore necessary to strike a reasonable balance between selling at market prices, as stated in the rules of disposal, and financing new projects. There are some exceptions. This applies to very special cultural, protected areas. I also have a brief comment that we should not forget that part of the areas we are going to dispose of, perhaps not exactly where the housing pressure is greatest. So it's not certain that releasing some areas, whether it be Haslemoen or others, will solve the housing pressure in those urban areas. But I understand that politicians who see the challenges of finding housing for young people are looking for possible solutions. But of course, as Minister of Defence, I have to be very careful to support a thought that could mean that we suddenly lose funding for important initial investments, which are part of the new structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e886	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e889	The conversion of defence in the period 2002-2005 was dealt with by the Stortinget last year, almost exactly one year ago. The Labour Party Government was then strongly criticised for its proposals, including: The right ‘adopted’ an execution of the then government’s proposal and compared them to the policies of the 1930s. As always, the party was keen to provide the defence with an economic framework so that the structure and budget would be in line with each other. The party wanted a defence that could carry out the services it ordered both domestic and foreign.The party wanted a Norwegian defence with respect both domestic and foreign.The party wanted a defence that could also safeguard Norway's interests and sovereignty over our land and sea areas and airspace both in peace and in crisis situations.The party wanted an effective and rational operation of the defence.The party wanted a defence that could organize and carry out its missions in such a way that people had a positive attitude to the defence and defence mind as a whole. The result was St. Prp. No 45 for 2000–2001, which gave the Defense almost what was and is right over a four-year period in the future. Some people were disappointed on behalf of the defense, but in a rough way, this worked out, with 30.4 billion dollars a year in this period ahead. But what happens next? We have a big choice, where the Stoltenberg government is thrown and we get a so-called cooperative government of the Christian People's Party, the Left, and just defence-friendly Right. A proposition is presented, St.prp. No 55, which on many, yes, on most points is a blue copy of what the criticised labor party government previously presented. Some increase is, but far from what we got the majority for June 13th last year. This shows the distance between explicit political will and real action. Without an obligatory decision in the Storting, which binds up the defence's resource framework for a period of, for example, four years, I'm afraid the serious imbalance between the measures and means that weigh the defense will continue. A deficit of DKK 5-6 billion will weaken the Defence and Defence's ability to perform their duties. That it may seem that it is only the Progress Party that understands this is totally incomprehensible to me. The solution, which was presented in St. Prp. No 55, to meet structure and budget, is not economically good enough. Among other things, it was necessary to: reduce to the following: the closure of the Haslemoene intake of protected persons is reduced by up to 10 pst. by year-classifying investment and activity in HV, i.e. ‘passive roll-over’ support to the voluntary shooter is terminated from now on. 2003maritim monitoring centre not establishedKystradar South does not terminate further participation in the Viking project And that's how I could keep going. This will not be the case with the Progress Party. It may therefore appear that the Progress Party is the only party in which people can trust will respect the interests of Defence and Norway in this area. Of the proposed reduction proposals, I would like to dwell briefly on three. In the case of the closure of Haslemoen, the proposal of the Progress Party involves the existence of the camp and is intended to be a natural part of the Østerdalen garrison. Per. on today's date there are 700-800 KFOR soldiers training there. The second is the very illogical thing about cutting off support for the volunteer shooter, which will considerably reduce the defensive ability. 170 000 members, of which approximately 20 000 young people, have meant and will mean a great deal to the defense's ability to solve their missions, and close cooperation with Home Affairs is of great importance. The Progress Party wants strong protection of homes, now as in the past, and the proposed so-called passive roll-out, where the oldest ones are taken away, is perhaps destroying the main defence sector in Norway today. The Progress Party had wanted the Minister of Defence's opinion in a question hour earlier this year to have been the result. Among other things, she said: that her heart beats for an agreement with the Advancement Party. – The result was a settlement with the Workers’ Party. The result of this will show time, but I am afraid that it will not sufficiently benefit the defence's ability to serve Norway. Otherwise, I am satisfied that the area still has its place in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e951	It is still the case that defence institutions, at least partly, are based on the will to defend the people, and this willingness to defend can be threatened by signs in time that indicate that the doctrine of "attack is the best defence" takes care of itself. I refer to the recent debate on a more exclusive, more unilateral USA, a NATO – and hence Norway – with an out of-area strategy. In this context, openness and information on the new directions are very important. However, it is gratifying that the Government in the proposition specifies that it is much more than before. ‘space for applying the full spectrum of security policy instruments, primarily those: political, legal, police, diplomatic, economic, informational, humanitarian’; [[1]] [[2]] [[3]] [[4]] [[5]] [[6]] [[7]] and that the use of military power constitutes only one instrument, which, in most situations, would hardly be the dominant means of security policy. This I think is a very good arrangement, a very good posture, at least initially. I would also like to warn against developments in which countries in Europe compete with the United States when it comes to means used for defence. There is already a serious cross of thought that huge military defence funds are being used, while little is being spent on active conflict prevention and resolution. This perspective must also be reflected in the budgetary context by looking at the relationship between the funds that are released for military purposes and the means that are used in other contexts to prevent or resolve conflicts. Norway's most significant contribution to preventing future conflicts is not investment in our own defence, but our economic and political choices in meeting, among other things. increasing social and environmental disparities. Contributions to peace and democracy processes are also investments in security. There is a broad consensus that Norway is not facing any great threat of hostile invasion. Russia's military capacity is dramatically weakened, and military aggression from Russia is unlikely. However, neighbouring Russia poses security challenges related to poverty and poor nuclear security. It will therefore be in Norwegian own interest to contribute to welfare development and to the better management of nuclear safety issues. Norway's main security challenges beyond this are related to having one of the world's most important food dishes just off our coast, and that we are Europe's most important oil and gas producer. Today's threat video suggests that we need to have a strong international commitment, and that Norwegian security can sometimes be best assured by participating in international operations. But I want to clarify the following: Firstly, it is very unfortunate that the development of defence interests is linked to participation in international operations, which put pressure on us to participate in the most possible places and with the most advanced weapons possible. Secondly, there is a danger that the threshold for introducing military measures will be lowered. And thirdly, we have to stick to the fact that it is the United Nations that is going to give a mandate for international operations, and the rule of the United Nations that is going to lease such operations. In addition, I want to include this with openness and information, which will be fundamental for most people to support our defenses. Information routines and principle of publicity in defence should be provided by a selection, not least because the majority of the population and the majority of the population should be able to control this. We need to make use of the expanded security scope. The expanded security coverage is based on the fact that military-related security problems also exist at individual and international level, not only at national level. Security policy also covers the security of individuals and international peace and security in general. Then – and only then – environmental problems, poverty, an individual's right to food, etc. enter into the security policy. I am sure that this will also be in a better way with the commitment of most people to globalisation and the enormous challenges the world has to face in order to smooth out the differences between the poor and the rich. In my opinion, such a modern defence, which includes the increased level of security, will strengthen the will to defend and thus defend in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e983	Conversion of the Defence during the period 2002–2005, St.prp. No 55, is a follow-up of St. Prp. No 45 for 2000–2001, as the Stortinget treated last year. Then the bourgeois majority adopted a structure for which there was no money, but it was before the elections. So now that reason has subsided over the Right and Christian People's Party, I'm very happy that the Workers' Party and the Government agree on a structure and economy that binds us in this great period. It is important for the Labour Party that a small country such as Norway has credibility in defence and security policy, as we have contributed, and is a clear signal to our allies and friends. 11 September taught us at least that we need cooperation, international and national. There are a lot of big and big things that Stortinget is adopting today. One is about integrated management, and a signal about placing it at Akershu's fastening. It is also important for the majority to decide to close the contract negotiations on MTBs of the Skjold class during the autumn of 2002 and thus to start construction in 2003. It's probably the land defence that's been through the most dramatic changes in recent years. The government's proposal is a further reduction. 20 independent infantry companies are removed, and Haslemoen's camp is laid down. What may have created the greatest protests in the government's proposal is the passive rolling of the oldest classes of the Homeland Protection. This proposal would have reduced Home Protection down to 60,000 men, and very many of the orders had disappeared. The fact that the Workers' Party has now helped the government parties to maintain the strength and structure of today is important. HV comes out poorly financially, with a reduction of 600-700 million. kr, which will go beyond the practice frequency. The training needs should be adapted to the needs of society and, as demonstrated on 11 September, there is a need for a far wider and more differentiated exercise than that of the ‘good on the skate’. That is why I am pleased that the Home Office is now getting a lot of new equipment so that they can handle different types of tasks. We also need to accept that there will be a major difference between home security departments – special forces in big cities and in industry and business centres, while others will have traditional tasks of object maintenance and will be community support players in search, accidents and crises. Stortinget asks that the Ministry of Defence keep Stortinget informed about the development of the Heimevernet. For my own part, I am very much in doubt if the Home Guard does not have too many camps to operate. If this is true, it should also be looked at so that the funds available to the Home Office can be used for equipment and exercises. Some of it that surprised me most in St.prp. No 55 from the Government, was the removal of the grant to the Voluntary Shooter Service, and I am therefore pleased that the Committee is now in favour of maintaining the 84 million voluntary shooter service. kr in the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. This decision was therefore intended to restore the good relationship between the Voluntary Sniper Service and the Defence Service, a cooperation of which the Defence and Society, for the rest, have enjoyed. I hope it'll be a long time until the department tries again to remove funds for the volunteer shooter. If I'm finally going to be a little solemn, it was the Storting that established the Voluntary Shooter Service for the purpose of promoting practical shooting skills within the Norwegian people, thereby qualifying it for the country's defense. This may not be the worst decision we've ever made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1006	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1009	When Stortinget treated St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 on 13 June last year, the majority ensured that the Haslemoen camp was facing an uncertain future. The majority argued that Haslemoen's camp would be maintained, but said nothing concrete about what would be left of military activities at Haslemoen. Thus, the municipality did not have access to conversion funds from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The majority made Haslemoen fall between two chairs. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, now point out that ‘Väler kommune has the opportunity to apply for conversion funds from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs’, and further states that ‘alternative use of the camp could provide opportunities for new jobs, such as: in the case of the establishment of a traffic college.’;» Furthermore, this majority assumes that during the conversion period, the defence clears the camp and the exercise field in such a way that it meets the requirements of State pollution control. In the case of the disposal of the clay, the majority assume that normal environmental guidelines are followed. I am pleased with this comment. I would like to underline the responsibility of the defense to clean up afterwards, so that the camp and the practice field can be used by the municipality for other activities from the day the defense leaves Haslemoen, and ask the Council of State to follow this closely. That Haslemoen means a lot to the municipality, is raised above all doubt. Våler Arbeiderparti has engaged in this matter and has made constructive contributions to the successful completion of the Haslemoen camp. In the municipality of Våler there is a great secondary school which has a high level of competence in professional driver training. Furthermore, Norwegian Traffic Centre is located here, which is one of the most modern traffic training centres in the Nordic region, especially on heavy vehicles. I'd like to ask the government to consider setting up a traffic college at Haslemoen. I note that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are promoting proposals for the maintenance of Haslemoen by coordinating the resources between Haslemoen and the Terningmoen. This proposal does not get a majority, even if we three representatives from the Hedmark Labour Party had voted in favour of it. Now Våler municipality and the employees of Haslemoen camp have been kept for a long time. Now the municipality of Våler must have a clear response and sufficient – I stress enough – with means of conversion, which allows the municipality to change and establish a new business, in a municipality that is struggling financially. Again, the Storting treats major changes in the Defence. It is necessary to adapt the defence to a new era, but for those who have their place of work there and have established themselves with housing and family in connection with a military camp, it is likely that it is difficult to continue to be reorganised and thus insecure for everyday life. It affects not only those who have their work in the Defense but the whole family. In many municipalities, the defence is a corner stone company and the main source of income for the municipality. This is also true for example. Haslemoen camp in the municipality of Våler in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1024	A majority in Stortinget one year ago asked for an investigation to be made into the future location of the defence operations at Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller. Reference was also made to the potential that could lie in the sale of Kjeller by moving all or part of the workshop activities from the Air Force Supply Command to one of the Air Force Stations. The investigation also revealed that the Swedish Aviation Agency required strict professional requirements for the military use of the Gardermoen, in particular for test and exercise flights for fighter aircraft and helicopters. There were new signals and of course have helped to change the assumptions in relation to St.prp. No 45 for 2001-2002 for which establishments can be added to Gardermoen at all. In the majority vote, the government parties and the Workers' Party are asking for a decision to be taken as soon as possible on the overall activities of the Air Force at Gardermoen, Rygge and Kjeller. The relocation of the transport aeroplanes to another air station and the question of the possible termination of the Gardermoen air station in connection with a future solution for the Defence Transport Aircraft must now be resolved promptly. Of course, it would have been desirable if we could already have decided the future business of Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller. Uncertainty about own workplace is, as you know, not the best motivation factor. As an Eastfold representative, the setting that Rygge should continue to hold the helicopter quadron and the Falcon jet on Rygge is positive. As a result, backrest avoids being placed in a ‘mill bag’ as it could be. That it will not give an economic advantage to shut down the flight activity on Back is also clear. And there's a lot of problems in the last round. There is also reason to note that the Center Party and SV go in to shut down all flight activity on the Back and go in to maintain the Gardermo. In other words, Rygge shall be plucked up and used for something completely different than an aerodrome. The Labour Party will strongly warn against this. There's reason to remember that September 11 gave us a reminder that it makes sense to have an operational military airport also south of Oslo. Today’s decision should also facilitate the establishment of civil aviation traffic on Rygge. A combination with the military will provide economic savings for both parties. Finally, I would like to say that it is very good that today we will adopt continued support for the Voluntary Shooting Service. Rarely have we received so many enquiries and more introductions into the history and work of the Voluntary Shooter Service that we have received here in our own time. It should be an area we all now know very much about and see the importance of maintaining, and I hope the Government will never come back with such proposals again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1041	The Minister of Defence said in his statement that HV had had objections to the proposal that the Government has made, and that we must be open to listen to the objections that HV has raised. The Inspector-General of the Home Protection System was so clear on the point of passive roll-over that it must almost be possible to characterise it as an observer when he said that it would be impossible to carry out the tasks that HV would perform with the form of passive roll-over. I have to say that it might have been an idea if the defence minister had chosen to listen to HV before the proposition was presented, and not after, but now it is in this round. What makes me even more concerned, however, is that the Minister of Defense does not try to answer my question about the consequences for HR of the decision that the strength of 83 000 men should be maintained without any form of passive rolling, while the Council of State proposal to reduce appropriations to HV by 630 million. kr shall be implemented. I would think that the Council of State must have thought about it, and at least – when her own party is also behind such a cut – before the coronation had a talk with the head of defense and the head of the Home Office about what will be the consequences of this, and not now that we should just obediently carry it out. Of course, it's the government's duty to do that. But I assume that there has been some contact between the government fraction and the parties that form a majority here on the Storting, in relation to realism in the implementation of such a decision and its consequences. So I don't think in any way I got a satisfactory answer to that question. So the Minister of Defense said in reply, in terms of the choice of future fighter aircraft, that industry and industrial contracts will be important in the acquisition of new aircraft, but that military capabilities will be crucial. I hear that the Minister of Defense repeatedly repeats that no choice has been made as to what kind of aircraft you are going to bet on. I take note of that, and it must also be so, because this matter has to be submitted to Stortinget. It's one of the biggest issues we've had in terms of defence investment, and it should just be missing that that decision will not be taken at a later date. At the same time, there is no doubt that leadership will be added when you now choose to spend NOK 1 billion. What is the situation is, as far as I understand, that the Americans have said that you must go into the programme and commit you to be in the future. You will have the opportunity to cancel this agreement, but you will have to enter the programme first, and we will assess whether the Norwegian industry will receive deliveries. It has not been said that if you go in, Norwegian industry will get deliveries. So my question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State please clarify to us why the JSF should then be selected from military capabilities. Because I assume that's what the Council of State stressed when she formulated herself that way, because it's well known that one of the European suppliers has gone a lot further in terms of industrial agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1055	It is today quite exactly one year since the Stortinget had its last major defence policy debate. At that time there was a proposal from the then workers' party government to lay down the Smoking Military Main Air Station. Back was to be put in a ‘mill bag’, as it looked funly hot. If this proposal had been adopted, it would be very difficult, not to say impossible, to ensure effective air defence of the capital and central eastern region. Fortunately, the Right, in cooperation with other parties, succeeded in stopping this fatal proposal. Today, one year later, the recognition that the Central East region needs a fully-fledged operational military airport has forced itself into several political environments. It is probably no unreasonable assumption to assume that the profoundly tragic terrorist attack on New York on 11 September last year has contributed to this new recognition. Smoking the main military airfield plays an important role in the exercise of our fighter pilots, and for allied aircraft that need a military airfield in the south on their way to North Norway. Rugg's existence also makes it easier to participate in allied exercises in the Atlantic basin. In St. prp. No 55 informs the Government that it will assess the relocation of the transport aeroplanes in the 335-square-dron to another air station and any closure of the Gardermoen air station in connection with the clarification of the future solution for the Defence Transport Aircraft. The Air Force has expressed scepticism for new and extended military aviation activity at the Gardermoen. We also know that the professional-military assessments go in the same direction. The pressure is high, among other things. on air traffic services, and it seems to me unmistakable that in the future, the need for training of fighter and helicopter pilots can be reconciled with the fact that the Gardermo will play the role of the main civil aerodrome of the eastern area. A year ago, a majority of the Defence Committee and the Stortinget Government requested the submission of a proposal concerning future activities in Rygge, Gardermoen and Kjeller, and that the proposal be examined already in the autumn of 2001. A majority also wanted a closer investigation of the potential for the relocation of workshop units from the Defence Logistics Organisation and the sale of Kjeller. I have noted that a large majority of the defence committee, all except the members of the SV and the Central Party, express very clearly that a principle decision is now being taken as soon as possible in relation to the total operations of the Air Force on Gardermoen, Rygge and Kjeller. This question is now overly mature for decision. There's been enough research on these issues. The Committee itself points out that a number of studies and studies have dealt with these issues, both collectively and separately. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1066	SV has in a number of contexts asked for more information about what Norwegian soldiers are doing in Afghanistan, and I am not satisfied with the information that Stortinget has received, because it makes it difficult, and almost impossible, our control function in relation to whether we comply with our international obligations. In the Class Battle last Friday, the Chief of Defense was challenged on a question that SV asked the Council of State at Easter hours, whether Norwegian soldiers had taken prisoners of war in Afghanistan. This has not yet been answered in the interests of the safety of the soldiers. In the class struggle, however, the head of defence answers this question. I think it is good that the class struggle readers get an answer to questions, but strange that the Storting does not get an answer to their questions. SV is today promoting a proposal for a selection to review the Defence Information Procedures and the principle of publicity. Can the Minister for Defence comment on this proposal? In my article earlier, I presented a few of the possible upcoming cost bombs in the Defence's plans for material purchases and investments in the coming years. This was the frigate project, which could account for between DKK 5 and 7 billion, and the region of the east, where the price tag could rise from around DKK 2 to 5 billion. Will the government insist that the amount of DKK 118 billion be kept, and that the defense has to deal with it? Finally, I asked what tool the FLO needs to meet expectations of a more efficient resource use, the IT system GOLF, could be delivered in time. I would also like to ask the Minister of Defence why the most expensive tool is chosen, once a tool has already been developed that can easily be developed into a common system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1075	There are some print errors in the configuration. Something has been fixed in a rich edition, which is available this morning. Let me draw your attention to page 15, third paragraph of the Committee's comments, where the second last and last sentence is at best butter in bottle. So that's the last sentence that's going to stand while the next sentence is going to cancel out. Then I have a few comments on things that have been mentioned in the debate. Let me say to Bredvold: What is the Advance Party supposed to be at Haslemoen? Isn't there a new round of winking that the Progress Party wants to send Våler municipalities out to? The worst thing that happened last year was that Haslemoen was adopted to maintain without anyone saying what was going to be there. It has, among other things, led the municipality of Våler not to receive the means of conversion that they could receive. Well, it's high time you tried to find other activities to add Haslemoen, so you get a clarification of exactly Haslemoen. Then the representative, Bjørklund, took this up in his post with the locks on the protective equipment. Let me first stress that we all have a clear political responsibility to prevent and prevent such tragic events as the killings of the Geilo. Furthermore, we also need to consider which measures are most effective in order not to repeat such gunfights. So the majority of the committee doesn't think the use of the chamber locks is the most effective way to prevent accidents. The HV students have a responsibility. The same has health care, and not least cooperation between health services and the police is important. I would like to point out that the Committee is in favour of an investigation into the future structure and organisation of Home Affairs. Here, the question of special forces, 016 forces, the relationship between built-in strokes and Bygde-Norway and the question of type of weapon, for example, will arise. can be recorded. Maybe it's just the special forces that need guns at home. Maybe the Home Office in the cities should have the same type of weapon as the police and not what the Home Office has today. At all: there are some things that we think should be included as part of the investigation that will take place in the future structure of Home Affairs. I can also repeat, for the sake of order, since Bredvold listed some things that were to be cut according to the proposition: the Workers' Party supports most of these, but it is the jam so that today there is unanimity in the Storting to maintain support for the Voluntary Shooting Service, and there is also no majority for the proposal for passive rolling. Just so there's no misunderstanding about what's in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1088	Many interesting aspects have been brought into this debate, and it is certainly not possible to bring a woman dimension into the debate this time. I think it should still be allowed to have male soldiers, but there's kind of been a claim here that women are more solution-oriented than we men. I must, as well as for the sake of order, remember that there have also been some men in this process who have found their solution. There's been a lot of weird happening in the last few years for us who've lived a few years. So to prevent any misunderstanding, I want to stress that I am a man, full and complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1095	We have no doubt about that. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1098	Odd Roger Enoksen had an article earlier today where he was able to make it that I did not want a debate. With all possible respect, I think the President understood what I was doing, which is a careful attempt to say that it would have been okay if we could have had this debate on a slightly larger scale than what it was going to do. However, when the willingness to listen may be absent, perhaps the conclusions of the representative, Mr Enoxsen, can be reached. Otherwise he says that this must be the time's place for the right. In that case, there's a definition of a stomach area that I don't know about. This is, as the Council of State stressed, a joyous day for the Right. We have a defence settlement that provides predictable framework conditions for four years. We've had a deal that involves the highest defence budget we've had since the Cold War, and we've made a deal that maintains the military's operational capabilities. Not least, we have reached a settlement that takes care of both the country defence of Norway and participation in international operations according to the commitments and interests we have in NATO cooperation. I also want to mention very briefly a few of the things that have otherwise come up in the debate. The representative of Halvorsen is very pleased with the participation of the Workers' Party. He completely forgets to remember that the proposition that his government put forward meant that one should not continue the MTB weapon, among other things. Now that he is satisfied that HV is being strengthened, I may have to remind you that it was the Government of the Workers' Party that proposed to build HV down to 60,000 men, while we, both in the decision last year and through the United Nations decision that we are now united, have led HV to a continuation of HV with full strength of 83,000 men. I would also like to stress again that the Voluntary Shooter Service has an overall support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1108	There are a couple of points that I want to comment on. The paper on social security is requested, and as the case-rapporteur, I would like to make it clear that we are on track. There is work to be done, not least in the Joint Committee between the Defence Committee and the Justice Committee, and in the position we are now debating, we refer to the forthcoming position on the Vulnerability Communication. Both documents have been treated in parallel. But in order to ensure the quality of some of the proposals in the communication and to get points that we believe need to be elaborated more thoroughly, plus that we will also look a little more at what they do in other countries, we have postponed the release to October. The other matter that has been raised is the monitoring of the coast. The Christian People's Party will stress the importance of security and preparedness along the coast. Working with St.meld. No 17, on social security, it has become clear that the monitoring of coastal and marine areas affects the responsibilities of many departments within the framework of overall preparedness. It has been explored how better coordination and further development of the country’s overall monitoring resources can be achieved, and the investigation is being addressed in the Defence Department. The Christian People's Party considers it very important that the needs of the various civil and military institutions can be effectively met. In order to ensure safety and the environment in the northern waters, the Government wishes to establish a maritime traffic control on the Norwegian side. That's important, because everything indicates that there will be an ever-increasing shipment of dangerous cargo in the waters off the entire Norwegian coast. Much of this cargo originates in Russia, and cooperation with the Russian authorities is therefore also very important. The Ministry of Fisheries shall carry out a detailed assessment of the level of risk along the coast and shall consider the establishment of a leader. It is therefore natural that priority should be given to areas with the highest risk of accidents. The Christian People's Party will make it clear that it is as part of the overall preparedness that both monitoring and common central is important to assess. There must be cooperation and joint solutions for good security and preparedness, and that will give us the opportunity to discuss also for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1123	I would like to spend some time on one of the Committee's proposals for a decision, namely VII, the closure of the Haslemoen camp by 31 July 2004. It's been a year since a majority decided that Haslemoen would pass. Some of this majority of representatives were even in a torch for the camp to last. But the change of government has created new proposals, and the same representatives and parties have changed their minds. So a closure of the camp is going to happen about about. two years. You can then ask who has kept the municipality Våler in Solør for fools, and not least the defense. The fact that the Workers' Party is on the point of view and proposal for the closure of the camp, as it did a year ago, regardless of the views of a working party team, is fair and fair, but that the government parties turn only after a few months, is regrettable. The Progress Party believes that such rapid military upheavals create frustration and inhibitions, rather than development, the Defense. The Progress Party now believes, as it did last year, that Haslemoen will survive, and if it is to be removed in the future, this must be done over a longer period of time. Per. the current date the camp is filled, inter alia, with: Nearly 800 KFOR soldiers, who praise the camp and its opportunities for practice, but also its well-being, such as canteens and what it serves — as one could read in the newspaper Oostlanden a few days ago. The Progress Party believes that Haslemoen, in line with military camps in Elverum and Rena/Åmot, is a natural part of the Østerdalen garrison and what it will produce, namely good, capable soldiers for both domestic and foreign service. It is with pleasure that I record that the Senterpartiet and SV also have an approximate proposal on Haslemoen. A camp like Haslemoen, just built for military activity, deserves to be filled with this activity, instead of perhaps becoming a ghost town in a few years. Haslemoen has a large, suitable exercise area, many new buildings, among others. workshop and warehouse, welfare buildings, etc. which the defence should continue to use in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1136	The next speaker is Björn Hernæs. Bear Hernæs has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1139	The estate decided last year that Haslemoen would continue until further notice. When an investigation under the direction of Østerdalen garrison concludes that the defence management does not find it proper to serve more than two camps in the Østerdalen, it is quite natural and proper that the government and the majority of the population take the position we are now doing. Otherwise, I would like to say – not least related to Eirin Faldet’s posts – that Hedmark Arbeiderparti has played a special role in defence, with resistance to its own party in all fields of the shooting field and also in the Haslemoen case. If I were allowed to give a good advice now, I think it would be that Våler municipality and also Våler Arbeiderparti would serve to put themselves on a cooperation line towards collapse and government and assess whether the language they have applied serves Haslemoen's interests and the defence interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1146	This may indicate that the heath marks still go on trains – at least if you look at the list of speakers – even if someone has fallen out of the torch that went a few years ago in favor of maintaining the Haslemoen clay. I would first like to stress that the Central Party is in favour of a defence, a defence of the people of the whole country, on the grounds of recruitment, staffing, location and a strategy for a Norwegian defence. So a little bit to a couple of things that affect Hedmark especially and first to Haslemoen's camp. We want, together with the SV and the Advance Party, to maintain the Haslemoen camp. We believe that it is a proper and important resource use, that one exploits and coordinates the resources at Haslemoen camp within the Østerdalen garrison, especially in cooperation between Terningmoen and Haslemoen. There are resources at Haslemoen clay that should be retained and exploited by the Defence, not least in relation to the resource scarcity of the Defence, based on the framework established today. It has been said that there should be a stepdown, and that those who work there should be offered a new job within Østerdalen garrison. But how many people still live in Våler, and what about housing and jobs in Våler? It is absolutely right that Våler municipality now needs to get a proper answer. With the decision that is taken today, it suggests that Haslemoen's camp is shut down. Conversion funds must then be put at the disposal of the camp, and there must be an organisation for the future-oriented use of the Haslemoen clay and the facilities that the camp has, preferably in cooperation with private and public actors already in the Våler municipality. So a little bit to Region Field Eastern. We do not want this to be established. It is referred today to the Vulnerability Committee, and the Committee Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party says that we are not taking a fight in the region field of Eastern Europe. I think that should be done. Economics and ecology allude it. As regards ecology and the environment, it is clear that it is worrying that large amounts of heavy metals and chemicals, white phosphorus, to mention something, will be dispersed in the basic conditions of one in the Eastern region. One should be able to reverse some of this. The use of Rena clay is another element that has come in recently. That's how we have alternatives. I've been discussing this with the president before when he was Minister of Defence. I'm not going to repeat the arguments here, but if it's true that in winter there's a treaty between the Nordic countries on the maintenance of a Nordic brigade, I realize even less that we can't have Nordic cooperation in shooting ground activity, when there's a field just a few miles away from the Eastern region as it's supposed to be located.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1159	I only have a few brief closing remarks related to the individual theme that has been on the agenda. Firstly, in the case of Homeland Protection, the government had a scheme that showed how savings were to be made, namely by passively rolling out the oldest classes of the year. This led to letters being sent to the committee, as far as I know, among other things. by the Inspector-General for the Protection of Home Affairs, where a desire for flexibility was communicated and to be able to do so in another way in order to continue to use the oldest officers. That's the flexibility that the majority has said that you want to put emphasis on, so that, in cooperation with the Home Office and the Defence Administration, you will make a more flexible arrangement than the government had planned, but within the same savings. In the case of fighter aircraft, there have been questions as to whether the real choice has been made or not. The answer, of course, is that the choice is not made. But we have chosen, in line with professional-military advice, to continue the cooperation project with the JSF. The main operational justification for continuing cooperation in Denmark and the Netherlands. There are two countries that have taken such a decision to become partners in the JSF cooperation. I don't want to go into detail about the different characteristics of the different alternate planes, because it easily leads to the impression that we've actually made the real choice, which we haven't made. Then I have received a question from the representative Engeset about future business on Rygge. To say that there have been signals from the Swedish Aviation Agency about possible restrictions on the use of the Gardermoen. It's an ambition for the Defense to be able to gather the asset, either on the Gardermoen or on the Back. But to come up with a final solution before we know which transport aircraft concept or what temporary transport aircraft concept is selected, and in which maintenance arrangements are submitted, is not that easy. That is why we are going to report progress in the annual government budgets, but we have to say that the final solution can come as late as the next four-year period. Here it's also up to Stortinget if you want a faster solution. Then there was a question from the representative Bjørklund about Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan. We may have a slightly different view of how open we have been. I believe that we have answered most of the questions. I can confirm what the head of defense has said, namely that Norwegian personnel have so far not taken prisoners, and that we have pre-declared commitment rules that, even if we are under an American command, this happens in a way that is fully in line with international commitments that Norway has approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1172	Mr Kjetil Bjørklund has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1175	I'm not going to comment on Haslemoen's question. Several representatives have been so kind to mention the SV's proposal, and I am pleased about that. But I would like to present a challenge to the Workers' Party. In the past week, the issue of future purchases of new fighter aircraft has been in focus. The government has provided clear indications that JSF will become the final flight selection, despite the fact that a number of experts have considered that JSF is not the best option. The Israeli authorities seem to be significantly more involved in this project than the State Council has admitted, and it has not been possible to obtain guarantees that Norwegian industry actually receives contracts in the JSF project. A unanimous defence committee has asked for all relevant information in the case. Parts of this material were in the middle of the day yesterday. The Workers' Party has joined forces with the Government in this matter to allow the Government to use its powers to conclude this development agreement. I suppose the question will be hanging in the air, but I will still ask it. I would like to ask the chairperson of the Defence Committee, Marit Nybakk, what must come out of information in this matter before the Workers' Party can participate in a full review of this matter in Stortinget. That Norwegian industry has not received guarantees, on which the representative Nybakk based his argument, is already known.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1182	Let me just first underline what I said both in my post and in my reply to the Council of State, that of course we have not taken any position on the purchase of flights that will come in 2015 or 2017. Technological developments make it absolutely impossible. With regard to the development agreement that has now been concluded with Joint Striker, we have also said that this agreement can be terminated if it turns out that we do not get Norwegian industry into this programme. I have also said quite clearly that I believe that it should be terminated. I would also like to point out that the Council of State has said that she will come back to the committee for the autumn with a statement on how far she has come to work to involve Norwegian industry, which is essential for us. But let me add that if we do not enter into this agreement, at least Norwegian industry has no options. I also made it clear in my post that I made myself open to the possibility of entering into a development agreement with other producers. So this question of flight purchase must necessarily be open, and then it's also clear that there has to be a proposition about it when that time comes. So I would essentially just say in conclusion that it is a historic defence agreement that is now being voted on today. For the first time, the defence will have a binding framework and a binding structure over a four-year period. Let me stress that the Labour Party is voting for a framework of NOK 118 billion for the four-year period that ensures a synchronisation between structure, volume and funding. It ensures predictability and stability, which means that the defence knows what they can plan. Then there has been a disagreement between the government parties and the Labour Party at one point, and that is that we wanted a shift of the whole or part of the Appendix for the current year to 2003, which we believe is the critical year. Of course, we'll take the evening's decision or the night's decision, or what it will be, for information. We will base the result and ensure in the next ordinary budgets that the defence gets a total of NOK 118 billion in the current planning period. That means that the next defence budgets will be very predictable. That's exactly the calmness, exactly the stability that the Defense now needs in the greatest transition period in the Defense after the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1198	I also want, as I did in my post, to criticise the Council of State for the treatment of the JFS project. I think it has been an inexorable treatment, and as I said earlier, I have said. I just want to mention briefly what I asked for in the open hearing. So it looks like it's 84 pst. of the development contracts already awarded to the United States, that 10-12 pst have been further awarded. to the United Kingdom, and that some other countries, such as the Netherlands and Israel, which have good contacts with the weapons industry in the United States, are probably already getting a little, and then there is a big question of what will be left of the Norwegian industry and what a repurchase agreement will really contain. Then I also want to say a little about St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, on social security, which should have been addressed here today, and it would have been a great advantage if it had been, but unfortunately it has not been so. These two things, St.meld. No 17 and the proposition we're dealing with today is kind of related. In the media, it has been criticised that this has not happened, and the media has blamed the Storting, or the Committee, for that matter. I think that's all wrong. The reason why it is not being dealt with today is that the majority of the committee has asked that the matter be put at risk for more substance in this matter, and that is also the basis on which the Progress Party proposed that the whole message be sent back, because we think it was simply too bad, and that it did not contain any substance at all. Now the Minister of Justice's reputation was saved by the majority of the committee, which, as I said, proposed postponing the case until October. The people who suggested it, I think they really wanted to send the whole matter back. It is the responsibility of the Government to draw conclusions and not let this hang in the air as it has done in this Communication. You simply invite to big business, and it's done here, and there's not been any other option.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1215	Odd Roger Enoksen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1218	First to Bjorn Hernæs. If the representative Hernæs' comment to the President at the beginning of the meeting this morning was meant as a comment on the President's proposal for a debate, it is in so far as it is all right, but I would like to remind the representative Hernæs once again that he voted to restrict speaking time. On that basis, it might not have been so strange that my comment came. The short seconds I have left, I want to refocus the search light on Home Protection, because I don't think it's very close to being given a satisfactory answer. It is possible that it is not possible to go any further in today's debate. But what GIHV was quite clear was that it was considered a far better option to get a crew of 60,000 men than to have a passive rolling of the oldest classes of the year. What the majority have done now is that they have said that we should not have passive rolling, and we should not have 60,000 men. On the other hand, we are going to maintain 83,000 men, which was last year's decision. There is a significant difference between that and what GIHV has said, and on that basis it should be possible at least to give an indication of the consequences for Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1225	I had hoped that the Minister of Defense had commented on this with a Nordic brigade. Is it the case that a treaty has been concluded between the Nordic countries to establish a Nordic Brigade? I believe that this is a relevant and interesting matter in relation to this with cooperation and perhaps also in relation to the shooting field. So a little bit more about what I didn't get, which concerns just shooting field. It is also shown to the Vulnerability Committee in connection with the treatment of the shooting area, and I think it becomes a little too light. I agree that many things related to the environment and pollution are important in this context, but I think we need to see it in an even greater context than that, and that the Vulnerability Committee is not going to do anything from or to the establishment of shooting fields. The economy is also very interesting in relation to the final decision. Has the Minister of Defence assessed the cost of setting up an environmental and nutrition fund for this area, as requested by the relevant municipalities – and I say municipalities –? I am aware that the issue has unfortunately come very briefly locally, but there will be a demand for an environmental and food fund, which will further increase the costs on the development side. They will be multiplied by the starting point for the cost calculations for this field of fire. I ask the Minister of Defence to comment on whether this has been calculated into a future cost calculation. At the same time, I want to ask where the 200 million. kr contained in the original budget for the area for cleaning up the Hierkin area is now in place. Are they still in the development budget, or are they out of the budget? Nevertheless, the budget has increased accordingly, for the framework has not been reduced. They're getting bigger on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1236	Per Roar Bredvold has had the word twice and gets the word to a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1239	This goes mostly to the skeptics of the region field. A large number of Norwegian women and men take on annual tasks related to, inter alia, the participation in international operations, where they face major challenges. Nor could Norway have achieved its national objective in terms of security and foreign policy without these women and men. Then it must also be a national task to facilitate the best possible performance of these people without unnecessary loss of life. Therefore, we need to facilitate the best possible qualitative training conditions required for insertion in different areas of operation. The Eastern Region is just a response to these needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1248	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3399]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1264	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Bjørnstad, the rapporteur on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1271	It's very nice that the president refers to me as Kjetil Bjørnstad, but the name is Bjørklund. With this, I will present the innermost from a unanimous defence committee. S. No 249 on amendments to the ‘Appendix Regulation, etc.’ to designated herds of compulsory protection’.» This is a matter of great importance to those responsible for protection. The objective of economic performance is to ensure a reasonable standard of living for the guardian and the family. The regulatory proposal is based on the recommended negotiation result between the State and the organisations. The Committee has also noted that a sample has assessed the Defence Trustee System and takes note of the information on the changes it has made. This includes, inter alia: all administration and operation of the Trustee’s regime is delegated from the Ministry of Defence to the Defence Manager from 1 August this year. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1284	A brief comment on this matter: it is important that soldiers serving receive financial compensation that is proportionate to what they provide, and perhaps also in relation to what those who do not provide. When you can see from papers that two out of three release military service, that's 66 pst. Of course, we have to take care of those who serve the military. You can fool around about NOK 108 a day, that's enough. 108 kroner a day can be the same as the youth gets in an hour of civil work. When you look at a couple's supplement and child's supplement for a child, it's approx. $6,400 a month. That's not sure it's enough to live off. I don't want to do anything about what is being treated today. But in the future, we need to look at the economic reward for those young people who serve first-time services, compared to just the large amount that is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3404]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1309	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President will see if he meets the rapporteur better this time. The case rapporteur, Leif Lund, is the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1316	I'm impressed with the security of the President! Brief from the rapporteur in this case: I feel that the matter is in one way or another. We reject Document No. 8:119 from Odd Roger Enoxen that Evjemoen camp is transferred to the municipality of Evje and Hornne with a maintenance fund. At the same time, however, we have recorded that the municipality has in a way woken up again down there and sent a letter asking the committee to reconsider the offer received by the municipality on 22 March 2002, which it refused in connection with an acquisition of the camp. I hope the Council of State will take initiatives towards Defence Building, so that they can maintain the offer of 22 March. It is the committee behind it, but we do not want to endorse the maintenance fund proposed by the representative, Mr Enoxsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1329	The municipality of Evje and Hornne is one of the municipalities in the country that have been most affected by the change of defence that we are now in the process of. I think I have to say that the municipality has not woken up now, as the rapporteur said. The municipality has been running an active and committed work since the decision to abolish the Eujemo camp was made, in order to obtain a conversion work, among other things. a conversion work based on exploiting the locations and opportunities of the Eu ropean camp. On that basis, I can very well understand the commitment of the Eujemo. Of course, I should have wanted my original proposal to have been approved to give a handshake to a community that is heavily affected. When that is not possible, however, I am pleased that it is as close to a unanimous committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which asks the Council of State to look again at the possibilities for Evje and Hornne's municipality to have parts of the camp, or to review the situation of the municipality. For me, however, it is not enough to hope that the Staesråde will take the initiative, as the rapporteur of the case pointed out. I expect the Council of State to take an initiative in line with the position of the majority. I would have liked to get a comment from the Council of State on what she intends to do in the matter further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1338	The case of the Evjemo has fundamental aspects in that a majority of the Stortinget, other than SV, has agreed to sell defence land for DKK 2.5 billion. This means that for each property given away free of charge, this must be reclaimed at higher prices for other properties. SV is of the opinion that many of the properties to be sold by the defence have great value as free space for the population of different parts of the country and that these properties should be disposed of at a low price to the State or municipality. Furthermore, SV considers that part of the properties that can be suitable for local cultural purposes, residential purposes, etc. should be disposed of to municipalities or organisations at a low price. I also want to repeat the proposal that has been made in the media in recent days to use properties for social housing. All of this suggests that it may be difficult to obtain as much revenue from the sale of property as the Storting has taken into account, and there may be grounds for considering the matter on a case-by-case basis later. SV enters the setting as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1349	I don't disagree with any of the speakers. I just want to remind you that the Evjemo camp was the one that was most affected when we last year treated St.meld. No 45 for 2000-2001. There were 240 jobs on the Evjemo that were removed with a pen stroke, and it amounted to 20 pst. by the labour force of a small municipality. The Ministry of Local Affairs increased the percentage with which the State was to participate in further development to make the municipality of Evje and the municipality of Hornne work, to 80 pst. It's very good, and everyone agrees. So for this, the municipality was on and wanted a maintenance fund of 100 million. kr. It was partly based on a report that had been prepared. I understand that someone had come to the point that there was almost an understanding between the state and the municipality that that fund could be about. 50 million. kr. Then Evje and Hornne's municipality had a meeting with the Prime Minister, and it was rejected, probably on a principle basis, to have a maintenance fund. I agree. The entire Trust Committee agrees that the provision of a maintenance fund to the Evje and Hornne Municipality would be wrong for reasons of principle. So the question is, which was raised by Kjetil Bjørklund: what is the camp worth? Does this precedent create? Probably the camp is very little worth. Something would be worth it, but one should not forget that there are large maintenance costs. Protected buildings will require substantial expenditure in the long term. I therefore believe that this is what the Stortinget is doing, a handshake to the municipality of Evje and Hornne, which I feel they should accept. Now they have another chance of getting the camp free of charge, as indicated by the letter of 22 March 2002. At least I would recommend Evje and Hornne's municipality to accept it. In the end, I just want to follow up the question put by the representative, Mr Enoksen, and ask the Minister of Defence to answer the question he asked, whether she agrees with and will take an initiative towards the municipality in order to reconsider this, or at least accept Evje and the municipality of Hornne in a positive way if they ask for a meeting on the basis of this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1360	Just a few brief comments: The Evjemo clay has approx. 240 jobs and must be closed. It is clear that it is important for a municipality to generate growth when you lose so much. Then one possibility is to give away the camp to a municipality, but of course there may also be other suggestions on how to solve this. What we're doing in this case will also guide what we're doing with other camps, like this. Haslemoen. There it is. 160 jobs in a relatively small municipality. We've said we should sell military installations, properties, etc. for just over 2 billion kroner. We have to do that, and we have to do that, like, for example. The representative of SV said in his statement. That's why this case becomes so important and so principleal in relation to what we're doing with the Evjemo, that I want to get a closer look at it from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1367	To a question that has been asked a few times in the Chamber here, I would just like to say briefly that if Evje and the Municipality of Hornne want to have a new dialogue with Defence Buildings, which addresses the questions about the offer made by Defence Buildings, I would be positive to help bring the parties together to see if it is possible to find a solution. I am also pleased that the majority of the committee has the view that they have on a general basis in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1374	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1390	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1397	Today's position has been discussed by two committees, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee. There is a broad majority in the two committees, consisting of all except the members of the SV and the Central Party, who support the majority vote to reject the proposal. The proposal by the proposers touches on a key point in the formulation of our own defence and security policy: the framework and conditions to be set for equipping the warring women and men of the state of Norway to defend our country and our interests. Material, together with education, training and practice, is the foundation for the standard of the departments we set up nationally and internationally. At the moment, our defence focus is focused on international operations. In such a situation, it seems obvious and obvious to a broad majority of Stortinget that the personnel must be equipped with the best material. We have no new lives to lose. The letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Defence Committee attached to the suspension clearly states that Norway today buys the main weight of its defence equipment from NATO allies. That's the way it's going to be in the future. However, the effect of SV’s proposal could be to reduce our future freedom of action to acquire the material we believe within the given framework that we need to solve the mandate. This will increase the risk to the lives and health of Norwegian soldiers, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs clearly points out in its letter of reply. A very broad political majority also points out that long-term, established practices in the procurement of defence equipment have worked well and according to assumptions. The majority also points to the fact that an overall assessment indicates that current practices of acquisitions are assessed on a case-by-case basis. The majority therefore assume that control of imports of war material will continue to be exercised in the future under the current regime. With this as a background, I therefore recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1414	The size treats in the previous week St.meld. No 29 on the export of defence equipment from Norway. It was a good treatment, although it was a bit of resistance from SV's side to export arms to Turkey because of human rights problems there. But the code around the hall of arms means that at least there will be a debate on these issues, and that there are clear limits to what and to who to sell. The background to today's proposal to impose restrictions is that we want the same far-reaching situation and democratic control when it comes to buying weapons below the borders, in order for repurchasing to take effect. There's nothing else we're asking for, but it's going to be the same situation during the purchase and sale. The recent debate, media talk and hearing in Stortinget on JSF fighter aircraft, among others. Israel is involved, shows that there is a need for restrictions on Norwegian procurement of defence equipment. In addition, it was previously revealed that Norway had purchased armaments from Israel at a time when Israel was responsible for the most powerful military attacks on Palestinian targets in the occupied territories since the occupation of 1967. The purchase was apparently not a political assessment. SV believes that such an assessment should have been made, and that a regulation is necessary to prevent such politically unwise arms purchases from being reintroduced. In S.B., we have doubts that not buying weapons from countries in war can increase the risk to the lives and health of Norwegian soldiers, as the U.D. states in a letter of 31 May 2002. It is a main objective of the proposal to avoid Norway supporting military production in warring countries. Weapons are an important commodity. Both the principle and the practical basis for the proposal is that a purchase of weapons provides direct support for a country's military and defence industries. Trade in weapons will be seen as trust and recognition of a regime that we would not normally support on the basis of democratic principles. The United Nations, for example, is using the arms embargo as a sanction to non-accompaniment countries of the Security Council. It would be quite natural for Norway to do the same in terms of restrictions on the purchase of weapons. SV and the Central Party will go against the setting and suggest that Document No. 8:129 for 2001-2002 is agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1429	This is a problem I don't understand. Of course, there may be something wrong with my understanding, logical thinking and intelligence, there are many who claim it in many contexts. But when Norway buys defence equipment, I thought it was for the sake of either Norway's defence or Norway's military departments' involvement in international operations. Then I thought it was about doing to get the best defense equipment, the best weapons. Whoever makes them then must be breaking indifferent, in a way at least. I thought it was the interest to equip our soldiers with the best equipment for the job they're going to do, which was the primary one. I have a certain understanding that there are restrictions on the other way – to whom we sell weapons. But in terms of what we need, it's a downgrading of Norwegian soldiers that you want to equip them with possibly worse material than you could have otherwise, because someone might not like a country. I don't understand that! But SV and the Senterparte will perhaps equip Norwegian soldiers with sprawl and arrow and bow, instead of making sure they get the best possible weapon equipment? This is therefore a remarkable debate. But what is serious is that several of the other parties, including the Government – and here I have a question for the Minister of Defence – have actually been concerned with the idea of imposing restrictions on the purchase of equipment from Israel – Israel of all! Israel that has high technology, that has good elements in weapons, that may just be able to deliver what we need, that is a country encircled by enemies, that has been under constant threat from its neighbours for nearly 50 years, who are now experiencing a new wave of anti-semitism, and who defend themselves as best they can against terrorist bombers who intend to kill women and children and terrorize the civilian population. I can't believe we're going to have any restrictions on buying weapons from Israel on the contrary! If it serves Norwegian interests, that should make sense. I would therefore ask the Minister of Defense to confirm that the remarkable freezing decision that was taken, which I took up with the Prime Minister in a spontaneous hour, and which he promised to look at, has been lifted – a decision that meant that Israel, from which we had bought the weapons, was not allowed to deliver after contracts were concluded. They were not allowed to meet with our defence management and the Ministry of Defence. You shouldn't take them with a firebang! I would like to ask the Minister of Defence to confirm to Stortinget that this has been lifted. Then I'd like to ask for a confirmation that, within the current rules, there are no special restrictions, systems or approval schemes that apply to the purchase of weapons from Israel, which are not equivalent for other countries. If the Council of State cannot confirm that Israel is now in line with France, Germany, the United States, Australia, England and other countries from which we may buy weapons, we will have to consider any proposal in that context later this week. The majority in this Chamber cannot believe that of all countries we shall have special difficulties and restrictions in buying weapons from Israel, in the situation Israel is now in, with daily terrorist bombs. I therefore ask for confirmation that all these freezing decisions – in all contracts – have been repealed and that Israel will be treated equally with other supplier countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1442	It is incomprehensible to me that the Norwegian defence must buy weapons from war countries to ensure the safety of Norwegian soldiers. But I'm not going to elaborate on this. There is an enormous distance between the Progress Party and SV in this matter, which the representative Hagen gave full insight into, not least on the question of who has the right on his side in the Middle East conflict. But I want to go over to another perspective in this matter. Earlier today, we have discussed the implementation proposal and a certain development agreement with the JSF project. I asked the Council of State a question when it was not answered, but I would like to repeat it. Does the Council of State not see any concern about Norwegian industry being invited into the JSF project, without any guarantees, to deliver technology for a project where Israeli industry and authorities are heavily involved? Does this not challenge our export rules in this area in such a way that the size should be consulted further before the conclusion of the development agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1451	In principle, the speakers of the SV have given a satisfactory background to the fact that the Central Party is also involved in the proposal promoted by the SV representative in the debate today. However, when I find reason to take the floor, it is in the light of Mr Hagen's comments. The fact that the leader of the Progress Party is saying that it is “no matter who we buy weapons from”, only we get the best weapons, is, to put it mildly, alarming. Does this mean that it is breaking indifferent for the leader of the Progress Party on Norwegian Defence to buy weapons from, for example, a military dictatorship in ongoing civil war and with persistent abuse of its own people? So you have to be able to let someone try out new weapons on their own people to see if this is the best weapon we can get, and then buy it. Understood, Carl I. Hagen has to be perceived that way when he performs to say that it's breaking no matter who Norway buys weapons from, only we get the best. It's a claim so monstrous that to me it's interesting to hear if the rest of the majority in this case share Carl I. Hagen's reasoning, that it's breaking no matter who we buy weapons from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1463	I will try to answer some of the questions asked. Firstly, the representative, Bjørklund, asked a question as to whether I do not at least have counter-conceptions against joining the JSF project if there could be Israeli sub-components in the final product. I also responded to it in an earlier debate today, and the answer is: No, Norway has no attitude towards the fact that Israeli components cannot be accepted in products we buy from other countries. This was also the background for Norway earlier this year, among others. bought some test rockets from Germany with Israeli components. To the question from Carl I. Hagen, if the so-called freezing decision has been lifted, is the answer to that: Yes, it is. I am absolutely sure that the representative Hagen also knows how the freezing decision, as he calls it, came about. In fact, contrary to a routine set up in the political system of the Ministry of Defence, political leadership had not been informed of a purchase of ammunition. Then there was a reason to find out if there were several such things that we were not informed about. That was the background. Once you had checked what was actually in the repair shop in the Defence Department, the freezing situation was withdrawn. In this connection, questions were also asked from Stortinget about getting a complete overview of what was coming from orders, and there was also some background to the need to spend some time to find out what was actually in the defense. So to another question from Carl I. Hagen, namely whether there are self-regulations or procedures associated with Israel that are special. To that end, there are routines in the Defence and Defence Department that are such that certain matters come up at a political level if they can be considered politically sensitive. The extent to which trade with different countries is considered politically sensitive will vary. But there are no trade restrictions or other formal barriers to buying from Israel, and the Norwegian defense has also over time bought both smaller parties ammunition and smaller parties defence material. The main reason why these are smaller parties is that if we were to buy large investments from Israel, it would trigger repurchase obligations, and then we would get into what we have procedures for, namely export control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1474	The majority of the Defence Committee has assessed this matter on a principle basis. The majority voting is also supported by the same parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee, who have had the matter reviewed before final decision. Such document No. The SV's 8 proposal is designed and as proposed by the minority – SV and the Central Party – is also designed, it is in fact said that it is not possible to buy defence material from countries such as ‘in war or civil war, or where war or civil war threatens’. Yeah, it's possible we're dealing with definition problems. But if we then interpret the decision in NATO on 12 September last year, where Article 5 decided to join the broad coalition against terrorism, where Norway also participates in Operation Enduring Freedom, then it might be questioned whether, with such a proposal as is here, one could have bought weapons from the Kongsberg Group, or from some other NATO country for that matter. So initially, it's completely impossible to support this decision, on a principle basis. Then I will probably add that in any such case you must also have a be careful-poster. It has been recently explained by the Council of State. She said that there will be cases where arms purchases can be said to be ‘politically sensitive’, and in such situations the matter shall be brought before political management. That is the purchasing regime we have, and that is what the majority of the committee's purchasing regime still thinks we should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1483	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1487	It might seem that the representative Hagen believed that we had made a proposal that would apply to Israel. I can assure the representative that it is not. It is Israel itself that has seen itself in that situation in recent times, by occupying, by its acts of war, which makes them particularly topical in relation to our proposal. It's a debt to every country that's at war or where war threatens. What can, of course, create fundamental problems is that we can risk getting into a situation where we can't buy weapons from our allies. It should then be an extra incentive from our side to work for our allies not to be at war. There is, of course, also an objective of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1494	Until now I had problems understanding the proposal from SV, but now I actually got the explanation why SV promoted this proposal. It is to make it so difficult that no one will get weapons, so there will be no war in the world, and everyone should be nice and okay. I then understand the proposal. Because until now I actually can't understand it. I agree with what the representative Hagen said, that there must be a big difference between buying and selling weapons. Then we kind of want to fire during a war, if we sell weapons to a war power. But when it comes to buying weapons, I have trouble realizing that we're not going to buy the best weapons for our boys and girls going out and fighting for our homeland. So this is so hard in this globalized world: where are the weapons from? We have Häglund here in Norway, it's Swedish, and Häglund is again owned by an English company, while the English company again cooperates with an American company. To what extent does this prohibition apply? Does that apply to the architect as designed? Is this the case with the contractors? What are the stages in the development of a war product? I think it'll be absolutely hopeless to find back to all of the starting points. As the chairman of the defence committee, Marit Nybakk, was in the room, it is clear that the Article 5 decision taken in NATO makes it almost impossible, following this proposal from the SV, to buy weapons from any country, at least countries that have a modern defence technology. I must therefore ask the question to the SV and the Senterpartiet: Whom can we really buy weapons from if this proposal is adopted? Now I understand that this is not a problem for SV and the Center Party, because they want us to be without weapons. But it would have been fun to know which countries one would expect to buy weapons from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1505	I am pleased that the Minister of Defence is now confirming that this very unfortunate freezing decision has been lifted and that we have the usual procedures. She wasn't quite explicit about this, but as I understood it, there are procedures for presenting to the political leadership of the department the head of the committee as being politically sensitive – the Council of State spoke of just sensitive. I assume that it's the council she's talking about, not these others who have no special responsibility, and that these are now the usual routines. As I also interpreted her, there are no longer any problems or restrictions specifically for Israel, so that the country does not stand out in relation to other countries. The Council of State confirmed that there was equal treatment between countries. Then I interpret it there that at the moment the situation is such that if it comes down to buying weapons from Israel, where there are no repurchase obligations – I assume that there is no amount that requires repurchase, that is not the issue I am talking about, because there is something else – and there is such a matter at the Council of State, she will automatically give it her approval and her statement that it is in order. I am asking that the Council of State tell me if I have misinterpreted her at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1512	Of course, when it comes to assessing which issues are politically sensitive in the Ministry of Defence, I'm assessing them. I do not give automatic approvals in matters, I do an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1533	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1540	This proposition comes from the Ministry of Justice and has been dealt with by the Defence Committee — a visible part of the overall defence intensity. It is a unanimous committee that joins the Government's proposal on supplementary appropriations in civil protection and police preparedness, including police security, of a total of 106.5 million. kr. Today's threat picture is broad and diffuse, with moving transitions between national and international, between peace and crisis, armed conflict and war. Society does not face a simple threat, risk or vulnerability, but a diversity of challenges that require a corresponding diversity of prevention and remedies. This diversity poses significant security challenges in a number of sectors, and the Committee considers it necessary to recognise the wide range of societal areas that need to be involved in national preparedness for terrorism. St.meld. No 17, Social security, which is now being discussed jointly by the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee, has clearly demonstrated this challenge. The submitted proposal is the result of a critical and cross-sectoral review of the civil protection and police preparedness situation. There was a clear need for increases in appropriations in addition to the strengthening already included in the budgets for 2002. It has to be considered that the need for resources has grown over time, while new needs have been identified in line with the threat picture. The measures proposed in this proposition are divided into the following main categories: measures to help stop and prevent terrorist attacks aimed at reducing the vulnerability of critical societal functions to attacks aimed at strengthening society’s overall crisis management capability to strengthen society’s ability to restore normal operation following a terrorist attack; Priorities in the safety and preparedness work of Norway are required. The overall civil protection, police and defence resources shall ensure that society is equipped to meet the challenges posed by modern terrorism. The additional appropriations we are discussing are an important part of our overall defence concept, and I recommend the Committee's recommendation for a decision, which is identical to the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1570	The rapporteur said that there is a case promoted by the Ministry of Justice and dealt with by the Defence Committee, and that it expresses the idea of defence and civil protection in a good context. I fully agree with the rapporteur. After the cold war, modern society is faced with a new threat picture. Today, we are dealing with a great variety of security challenges, which can arise unexpectedly and unexpectedly. Threat scenarios have gradually shifted from wartime events to peacetime events, which have made it necessary to change the dimensioning and alignment of our national security and preparedness actions. In St.meld. No 17, which has been mentioned earlier here today, the Government is presenting plans and measures to meet these challenges, and this communication must be seen in the context of both St. prp. No 54, currently being dealt with, and with the Defence Implementation Proposition, which has been dealt with earlier today. In the past, the government has announced that it would assess the overall need for resources in 2002 in the field of civil protection and police preparedness. This was due to the fact that last year the need to carry out a thorough and cross-sectoral review of resource needs was recognised. St. pp. No 54 is a result of such a review. In addition, the Government has proposed measures in the revised national budget for 2002 within the Customs and Fees Act, which has also been notified in St.prp. No 54. The review shows an overall additional demand of 146.7 million. SEK in 2002, of which 106.5 million. kr is proposed in St.prp. No 54, and 40.2 million. The proposal is proposed in the revised 2002 national budget. This resource need has been built up over time, while the measures taken must be considered as an adaptation to the new and multidimensional threat picture. In the proposition, it is proposed to approx. 30 concrete actions in all seven departments. Actions shall help to stop and prevent terrorist attacks, reduce the vulnerability of critical societal functions through such attacks, strengthen the overall crisis management capacity of society and strengthen the capacity of society to restore normal operations following a terrorist attack. In order to prevent and stop terrorist attacks, close cooperation between the police and the defence is required. Competence and equipment must be deployed to ensure that the authorities have sufficient capacity to analyse and render harmless both the planning and the implementation of terrorist attacks. Several of the measures proposed have been based on scenarios of mass-destructive agents. These measures have increased the timeliness following the notification of a possible terrorist attack with a so-called ‘dirty bomb’ in the United States last month. The Government proposes a number of measures to strengthen preparedness for nuclear and biological and chemical weapons. The ABC measures amount to between 50 and 55 million. kr. Of this, approx. Thirty-four million. measures to strengthen nuclear preparedness. In addition to this, I am now reviewing the preparedness for this type of destructive agent. Effective ICT solutions are an important part of the fight against terrorism. The government therefore proposes investments in ICT security as well as physical security measures and strengthened watchkeeping. Although there is a low probability that there will be an incident in Norway with a similar level of damage as the terrorist attacks in the United States, I would remind you that the unlikely thing too can happen, and that we have to plan to try to avert this. Should a terrorist attack occur, the adverse effects must be minimised. This can well be expressed in such a way that it is just in normal times and with normal people you also have to learn to turn the idea 180 degrees in order to think about the unexpected and unusual, just to strengthen the preparedness both in terms of training, competence and equipment. There are measures to ensure the competence and equipment promoted in this proposition and which have obtained the unanimous agreement of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1596	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1612	As can be seen from the position, the outcome of the vote in Stortinget on proposal No will have an impact on Stortinget's consideration of this matter. One will get. The President therefore proposes that the debate be divided into two parts. The first is to address questions relating to proposal No. In the first place, there is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox If proposal No 1 should fall, Stortinget will continue to deal with the matter. If proposal No 1 would get a majority, it would be natural, as the president sees it, that the matter would be sent back to the committee for further consideration. The President shall propose the following speaking time limits: For the examination of proposal No 1 proposes to the President that the President, one representative of each of the two proposed parties and, where appropriate, the Council of State, be given five minutes each, Carl I. Hagen – to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1623	I do not even accept any indication of restrictions in speaking time regarding the postponement proposal, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox I would ask the President to read the comment – then he would have made no proposals for any restrictions in speaking time. I propose that the Rules of Procedure be used in relation to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1630	The President shall be in agreement with his proposal, which shall mean that the President, one representative of each of the two proposed parties and, where appropriate, the Council of State, shall have a speaking time of five minutes each, and that there shall be a reply to the observations of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1633	Then it's just to call voting. I have put forward a concrete proposal to base the Rules of Procedure. It decides the Stortinget, and then the Stortinget must have the necessary number of members present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1640	The representative Hagen must also give other representatives the opportunity to comment on the issue of the debate. Kjell Engebretsen – for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1645	It is a rather concrete matter to decide on in and separately. We, for our part, believe that this arrangement, with the limitation in speaking time proposed by the President, could be sufficient to clarify this matter in such a way that the Storting is able to determine whether we should fall on one side or the other of voting on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1650	Ågot Valle – for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1653	I support the President's proposal because we have ample opportunity to come up with the very important arguments we have for this proposal. I think we get the opportunity to get it illuminated this way, and also to deal with the matter later in a proper way. That is why I support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1658	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1661	The Christian People's Party is also in favour of the President's proposal for a debate, and we agree with the SV representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1667	Several have not asked for the floor for the debate. After it had been called to the vote for 5 minutes, said
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1672	The vote will then be taken on the President's motion for a resolution in the first part of case No. 6th@item: inlistbox In order for the Stortinget to be briefed, the debate on case No. 6 will be divided into 2. First, we want a debate on and voting on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. If that proposal falls, we will continue to deal with case No. 6th@item: inlistbox In connection with the debate on proposal No. 1 the President proposed that a speaking time of 5 minutes be given to each of the two parties who have put forward proposals, 5 minutes to the President-in-Office and, where appropriate, 5 minutes to the Council of State, with access to replies with replies from the Council of State. Mr Hagen spoke against this proposal and wanted to follow the Rules of Procedure in the debate on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox That's what's going to be the voting theme. The President's proposal is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1685	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1695	Just to avoid misunderstandings, I would urge the representatives of the Right and the Left to vote in favour of the President's motion for a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1700	During the debate on the debate, representatives of the parties outside the Progress Party have expressed their support for the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1711	The President pointed out that there would be a debate between 15 and 20 and 25 minutes, and that there would be a new vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The representatives should therefore not move so far away from the hall. We are going to the debate on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President shall first give the floor to the rapporteur, Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1716	During the examination of the annual report of the EOS Committee, one matter was discussed frequently and intensively in the Committee, as regards both the content of the matter and the formalities relating to our handling of the matter. The main reason for this was that this case was in the legal system. It was the judgment of the first court, and some of the committee's members assumed that this case should not be appealed further in the legal system. Others thought – and probably believe – that this would be the matter of the Council of State to consider and the matter of the Council of State to decide. However, the Minister of Defense commented on the matter in the press, claiming that the Attorney General had advised the Council of State to appeal. The members of the Committee were at least somewhat surprised by this and felt that an appeal such as this must be the responsibility of the Council of State, the authority of the Council of State, and that there is no reasonableness in the fact that the Council of State here uses, for example, and refers to, the Advocate-General and in a way pushes him in front of him in an ongoing debate. For this reason, the members of the Committee agreed to ask for the letter from the Ministerial Attorney-General on which the Council of State based its decision. The Minister of Defence replied in a later letter to the committee where she explained how these things worked, that the letter and advice and investigation of the Minister of State was a matter between him and the Council of State. Now there is no doubt that the Stortinget for its part is in its full right to request this letter sent, if such a decision is taken here in plenary. But if that were to happen, we would have an unusual special case to deal with here in the hall. The members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left refer to the response we have received from the Council of State to the Committee's request and do not support the requirement that the letter of the Advocate-General be sent to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1727	This is a very, very perceptive attitude expressed here by the rapporteur and the majority of the parties represented in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is therefore unanimous in the view that access to the letter of the Advocate-General is something the Committee wants. It is clear from the Committee's letter. I assume that the committee, and also all the other members, wanted this, among other things. in order to assess the governance of the Ministry of State and the acceptability of the Council of State. The case rapporteur said that it is up to the Council of State to assess whether the appeal should be filed, and that is quite correct. But when the Council of State publicly, in the Newspaper, creates the impression that she's actually more of an executive of what the Advocate-General has decided, then it's an attempt to disclaim some of the responsibility for the decision. It has also been – I must admit – a few times in the past that the Minister of Defence has expressed himself in the public debate that some people have got the impression that there is a little overwhelm of responsibility in the ministry. The important question is that, in order to exercise its control over the Board of Governors of the Ministry, it appears important to have access to the letters of the Advocate-General, where, following opinions, there should be a public recommendation to appeal the case. Well, a recommendation might be that you're 90 pst. safe to win and must therefore be anchored. You're completely convinced, or maybe it could be 55-45. Perhaps in the letters of the Minister's attorney there are some counterconceptions against appeal. Perhaps the conclusion is just that well, an overall assessment suggests that you should appeal – perhaps because the government attorney seems to have been a nice case to proceed with, because it never costs anything for the state to do this. It is only civil enterprises and persons who have to assess the economic value of going to justice. Of course you don't do anything special about the state. It is a little important to know what is the basis for the Council's assessment, especially when she and the press official in the public debate refer to 31 security breaches, and that it was important to know whether they were real. Yes, but it is not even mentioned in the prosecutor's appeal to the court, so there is at least a misinformation in the public debate. It is not mentioned in the letter to the Council of State. For the sake of principle, should the Storing and a Grand Committee, which is to exercise a control function, accept that the one we are to control, should decide which documents we are to have access to? That's the unsustainable constitutional question. In the past, Stortinget has voted in favour of a proposal from SV and us that the National Audit Office itself should be able to access what it needs for its control work. Again, it is believed that we need this letter from the Government Attorney, but we are not going to use power. Then this is what we write in the comment from the Progress Party and SV: ‘If such an attitude is accepted as the norm of the Storting, it would mean that the person under control would be able to gain insight into, which would be unsustainable constitutional practice.’ [[Size]] I have never – and I have been here for a while – experienced this before, that a unanimous waxing committee makes the assessment that we need transparency in order to do a decent job, and then the one we're going to check: No, you can't see that! So other parties say, OK, who do we think we are? Should we be subordinate to the Government now? So if the government doesn't want to, we're not going to interfere in it. That's what's the unsustainable, the pure principle. It should not be necessary, of course, to go to the Parliament and request a decision. It should have been so that when, in particular, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs unanimously wants some documents, we will have access to them. This has nothing to do with publicity for the documents, of course. This is for our own sake. We have previously had classified documents that we have only been able to read in the committee under guard. It's all right. We don't have any problems with that. But we should have access to a very crucial document so that we can do our job, namely to give a proper position on the EOS Committee's handling of this matter. Then we need the Attorney General's letter. Therefore, on behalf of SV and the Progress Party, I take up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1751	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1755	This round may well confirm that it would have made sense that the committee had had hearings and had therefore also put the matter at risk, as some of us would. But we're now here to discuss it. The question of whether the Stortinget or the Committee to control the Government and the administration on behalf of the Storinget is to have access to the Minister of Defence's letter from the Minister of Government is an important question of principle. This is because control of the executive is one of the biggest tasks, and in this context, in order to have the opportunity to detect any abuse of power. It may not be such that the Government, which is to be checked in this context, shall determine what shall be disclosed to the Grand total. It should also be fairly clear from the comments we have with the Progress Party. The testing of principles has been shown in practice through individual cases. We sincerely believe that by voting down our proposal, the Storting may be in danger of getting caught up in the government, and we think that is very serious. In order to go into further justification, I want to go into something in reality to show why we think it is important to get insight into these matters. The background to our demand for transparency is an old case from the EOS Committee and the Stortinget, a case that was debated last year, despite the fact that last year this case was already on its way into the judicial system. So that reason for not taking up the matter and really entering into it that the majority has this year, also existed last year, but then the committee went into the matter. A department director was deprived of the security clearance and, as a result, of his post. Both last year and last year, the Department and the Council of State are criticised for the handling, and last year the Stortinget joined this criticism. In several letters, the EOS Committee criticises the Department of Justice for its decision of the facts and for its proceedings and asks for a new, unwarranted treatment of the case, so that the Director of the Department is not forced into costly proceedings before the courts. But that's exactly what he's forced to do, seafaring at high personal costs. What has happened since that time? Well, the dismissal of him is known to be invalid in Oslo District Court, and the EOS Committee has closed the case and brought quite harsh criticism. So what is the Council of State's response to this criticism? Does she take the consequences of the criticism of e.g. to ensure that the head of department gets the security clearance back and thus the job as well? No, no, no. She steps up by appealing the case, and not enough with it, in the press she and her press spokesman, who was also in the presence of the representative Hagen, process that there have been 31 security breaches – as if it were the truth – despite the fact that many have rejected them, including by the head of the department. This is why we believe that the Committee must have access to the advice that the Council of State has had as a basis for appeals – simply in order for the Committee to do its job. It's also quite right, as Hagen says, and it's also a comment to the representative of the Engebretsen, that it would be a difficult matter for us to deal with. This is not about publicity; this is about the fact that the committee in enclosed spaces, with watch, could have access to the papers. Of course, we are subject to the obligation of professional secrecy that this entails. Against this background, we believe it is important to ensure transparency, and we would recommend that the representatives of the SV, of course, vote in favour of the proposal to which we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1776	Several have not asked for the floor in the debate on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox After it had been called to the vote for 5 minutes, said [[Fotation, see page 3399]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1783	We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to forward to the Ministry of Defence a letter requested by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1799	We're going to deal with case number. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time be set at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1808	The intelligence, surveillance and security service control committee of the EEAS, referred to daily as the EOS Committee, provides annual notification of its activities to the Stortinget. In this Communication – and in the debate we are going to have today – there is one thing that can seem a little special, in the sense that the principle position of some members of the Committee is not to comment on a case that is in court, making some members focus on it as one of the most important parts of this report, while others do not comment on this piece. It is solely because part of the members are of the very clear principle that they do not handle, deal with or comment on a matter that is before the court, while others do not share the same opinion on it. There have also been claims that if we are not more provocative in matters like this, there is a risk of legal certainty. It is therefore our view that the legal certainty of individuals is ensured both by the judiciary and by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Stortinge. Moreover, when there is a final judgment in this case, the Committee will be able to examine the matter gradually and to consider what is right or, where appropriate, wrong about the proceedings and the course of events in this case and the corresponding cases. The EOS Committee has its activities directed towards the Police Monitoring Service, the Defence Security Service and the Defence Intelligence Service and is required to supervise these services on a regular basis. The history of our own country and of other countries has shown the need for and the importance of systematic supervision of this type of business as well. Checks shall be made to ensure that laws and directives are not exceeded, that they do not use more or less intervention than the situation and the relationship requires, and that no injustice is suffered as a result of the necessary activities of those establishments. All public activities are and shall be under control. However, the special feature of the monitoring, security and intelligence activities is that, as a logical consequence of their activities, they are not subject to the same transparency or control of, for example, the general public, the media, etc. Therefore, such a sample as the EOS sample is necessary. The EOS Committee therefore has a very important and comprehensive task on behalf of all of us, and the Committee is therefore very pleased that the sample has so clearly and precisely understood and contributed to defining its role. The committee has an overall and very principleal approach to the issues at stake and therefore represents a safety valve in situations where we can all be tempted to resort to some extraordinary instruments. When there is a threatening situation, such as: The time after 11 September – which is no longer just a date, but almost a concept – is reassuring also for our people in the surveillance, security and intelligence services to have a control body with this very solid anchoring. The cooperation between services and the sample is, as far as the Committee can see, very good in the sense that the sample is able to exercise its control without hindrance in the manner it considers appropriate and necessary. It is also important that the political leadership of the departments concerned recognise the EOS Committee as one of the control bodies of the Storting and see the role and function of the sample. It is therefore very important for the Control Committee to point out that the contact between policy management in the relevant departments and the EOS Committee must have such a way of functioning that the EOS Committee can complete and carry out its tasks on behalf of the Grand Duchy in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1832	Initially, I would like to say that it is a bit of a shame that so much of this matter is to be dominated by a single matter that can quickly overshadow much of the other thing that is important in the matter relating to the annual report of the EOS Committee. But it's often the case that individual things overshadow the whole thing. The rapporteur has explained that the Committee has supported the configuration of the EOS Committee, and the EOS Committee has also done a good job this year in overseeing these services. It is important to consider that there are some basic rules that must be followed. So here the committee has divided into a majority and a minority. I must almost correct the case rapporteur there, because there are none of the members of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but a majority who say that the Stortinget should actually keep its hands off the case when a case stands for the judiciary. This is about the basic principles and rules of the division of labour between legislative, executive and judicial powers. It is asserted principles that the Storing has followed and should follow. The members of the Right and Christian People's Party of the Committee say in a note that they have noticed that the ministry in the letter says that they take the experience of this matter into consideration in future relevant proceedings. The Ministry of Defence also takes note of the criticism of the EOS Committee, and agrees with the critical remark made by the Committee on Oral Procedure. So let's think about that. Furthermore, we take note that the Ministry of Defence believes that the comments of the EOS Committee do not affect the substance of the matter itself, but go to the proceedings. In the extension of that, we feel the most correct, not least for fundamental reasons that I have explained, to await the handling of this specific case by the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1848	I would also like to refer to the setting in respect of all other questions than this cancellation case. There, the Committee has generally had unanimous views. I want to give my full support to the EOS Committee. I think the EOS committee has, and should have, a useful function, among other things. to prevent abuse of administrative power in the context of secret services and related issues. The members of the committee, including me, have received a number of requests in connection with this dismissal case, and there is one common denominator in the enquiries we have received, namely that they are totally incomprehensible to the treatment given to the director of the department. He has had a good start – it is also mentioned in the case and is publicly available – from previous superiors, from colleagues and from others who all say the same, that there is no reason for this dismissal case. It's estimated that here you've roughly constructed something, partly almost looking for something to put your finger on to use it as a formal reason for a cancellation. The alarm clocks should call a government council when the EOS committee comes with clear criticism in two rounds and ends the case with clear criticism, when the matter has been in Stortinget and discussed earlier, and the other body that has so far seen it, namely the city court, has imposed a loss on the state and made a decision that he should be reinstated in the position. It is remarkable that no information comes to the Storting that underpins or justifies the ministry’s course of action, while a number of errors are revealed in the Ministry’s arguments regarding actual events, events that have occurred and have been controlled. The Ministry has been renouncing point by point and has at best provided information to the Stortinget, which has been misunderstood by the Ministry, and which has been recovered by some people who have said that it is not correct what the Ministry says. It has therefore been assessed in the EOS Committee and has been in the Stortinget before, a number of enquiries have been made, and the case has been in court, which has given judgment. Despite all of this that clearly shows that here is the abuse of power and subversive reasons to cancel a person who has worked his whole life in the Defense and has been very loyal, the Council of State is advocating the matter. It's remarkable. I interpret that as pointing to the nose of the EOS Committee and the Storting. And that the Storting finds itself in it, to me, is completely incomprehensible. It really means that the Storing accepts an undermining of the role of the EOS Committee. When the administration wants to combat the EOS Committee, this case will give a clear impression that the Stortinget is on the management side in the fight against the criticisms of the EOS Committee. It's quite dramatic that you clearly undermine the role and authority of the Storting's own control committee on these issues. Here you might have had a more flexible and modern personnel policy, where it's not that every time one of the administration puts everything into it, you have to have death and life right, and whatever the cost, it has to be reimbursed. So I'm going to deal with proposal No. 2, from the SV and the Party of Advancement, and the proposals No. 3, 4 and 5, from the Progress Party. We want the government to draw the anchor. We will return the security clearance and ask the Government to enter into negotiations with the respondent for compensation for the wrong that the Ministry of Defence has inflicted on him. We are satisfied that that is the situation. It is quite clear that the legal instrument to do so is the legal instrument, the legal assessment shall take care of the legal apparatus. It's not a legal assessment I'm doing, it's an overall assessment, an overall assessment based on all of the information we have, but unfortunately we haven't got access to the government attorney's letter. Maybe it contained information that would make me have a different view. If so, it is in the case of the Council of State's responsibility that we have not received access to that letter. We have to rely on what we've got access to, and then I'm going to base the EOS committee's assessments. If this case has the same outcome in the next court and possibly in the next, so that he wins the case, I expect it will not be the Minister of Defence who will then meet in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1859	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1862	I want to reassure the others in the committee that I will probably also address other important issues in my post, and rather come back and elaborate more in the line change with the state councils. First of all, I'd like to commend the EOS Committee for a good job. It's very important that we have a sample that so well exercises control of the secret services and reports back to the Storting. And it is particularly important when implementing new laws, and at the same time a vigilance after 11 September, that we have a sample that ensures that the measures taken in the framework of the legislation do not weaken the protection of the individual's legal certainty vis-à-vis the activities of the services built up in recent years. The lessons of the Lund Commission must therefore be managed. It is at the heart of a rule of law and democracy. I would like to stress very strongly that all services on their own initiative must provide the EOS Committee with the relevant information necessary for the selection to exercise its parliamentary control. Equally, I must stress that the sample must have the transparency it asks for, and that the administration is following up on the points of criticism that the sample comes with. Something else will be undermining both the authority of the sample and the Grand Duchy. Because SV has great confidence in the sample, we find it particularly important that we follow up on the issues where the sample finds anomalies or comes with criticism. I want to talk about two important things. But before I do that, I'm going to link a little comment to the Echelon system, which is a communication interception system between several intelligence services. The European Parliament has shown in a report that the system exists. The defence intelligence service informs that they are not involved in this cooperation, but it is important that the EOS Committee continues to work on this topic. So to one thing: the police security service, or POT, gets criticism for its handling of the Viking case. The Committee endorses the criticism. In the wake of this case, SV believes it is important to ask what kind of threat picture the Security Service is now operating with, and that we are sure that the service has the skills needed today – perhaps the Minister of Justice has to respond to it. In the wake of the Vixveen affair, it is also important that limitations be made to the overall prosecution authority, as the EOS Committee also points out. We in the SV agree that only those decisions that have been formally and notoriously taken by the overall prosecution authority fall outside the control area of the sample. It follows from this that arbitrary decisions or instructions from the overall prosecution authority, without being verifiable, must not appear as an attempt to limit the transparency of the EOS Committee. In a Member State of law, there must be a distance between the charges, so that each paragraph is subject to independent assessment and control. So to what is referred to as ‘Sak 1’ and which is the basis for a strong criticism both by the EOS Committee and by the SVs and the Progress Party. So the case has been terminated from the selection. Then we believe that drawing conclusions is the task of Storting. Other things are undermining trust in the security services and in the authority of the EOS Committee and the functioning of the control law. I would like to remind you that last year this case was started in the legal system, and nevertheless the Stortinget spoke about it. In the annual report last year, the EOS Committee identified the danger of abuse of the Security Clearing Institute. We share this concern. And we want to add: abused to get rid of careless people. I'm pretty sure the institute itself is good enough, but the danger of abuse is there. Many messages I read, both to the EOS Committee and to the undersigned, indicate that the suspicion of abuse that has occurred is justified. Of all the messages I have seen, I have formed this image. The defense chief command has wanted to get rid of a person who has been clear in his language. The appeals to the Department have been subject to any criticism and, in particular, to the distortion of the overall testimonies which have been positive for the department. This is very serious, and it is in the light of what we find very critical that the department has not found a solution that the department director has been able to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1884	The EOS Committee shall ensure that the activities of the intelligence, security and surveillance services are kept within the defined framework of the services. There shall be no wrong done against any. The selection is therefore very important in the context of Stortingen’s control function and has an important role to play in ensuring legal certainty for individuals. In this Annual Communication, the EOS Committee has focused on important control issues in all three service areas. We have received an informative overview of the work of the sample in 2001. The highest attention has been paid to the matter concerning the cancellation and revocation of the security clearance for one of the defence employees. Everyone is entitled to equal treatment. The questions raised in this case are: Should the Ministry of Defence accept that persons with multiple security breaches may continue to maintain their security clearance? Did they have the right to tell him up? Is the loss of clearance due to termination? When the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Right, has not progressed with this matter, it is because, as mentioned earlier, it is now before the courts, and we will await the answers we get from there. It is also worth noting that this case has been dealt with by three government councils – Løwer, Godal and Devold. The monitoring committee usually follows up cases followed up by the EOS Committee, and here the committee has said that they do not go further on the matter. The control committee should concentrate on these matters, which have been noted and found critical, and ensure that they are followed up by the ministry. This is agreed by the Minister of Defence with the selection, and it is confirmed in a letter of 29 May to the Control Committee. The Ministry therefore takes the criticism from the EOS Committee against the proceedings seriously. Security provisions must be complied with. The security breaches were real. If not each of them was equally serious, the sum of the fractures is so many that the overall picture was roughly because of the number. Safety clearance is given or maintained in the absence of doubt as to his safety fitness. It has been confirmed that there were several fractures that led to aggravated procedures. It can be understood that the fractures were caused by heavy work pressure and reorganisation, but this cannot explain the fractures. It's turned on by the Oslo District Court. By appeal, the State Supreme Court's answer to the question of loss of clearance is grounds for dismissal. On 24 May, the Control Committee received a letter from the EOS Committee stating that there was no basis for proceeding with the case, and they have closed their proceedings on the matter. It should also be mentioned that the person has been offered a civil status in the defence and can take up the position whenever he wishes. The aforementioned case has overshadowed much of the other very important issues of the EOS Committee. The selection is carried out, among others: important contact functions through informal cooperation with the control authorities of other Western countries. There is an increasing interest in our part of the world in developing parliamentaryly anchored control systems for the EOS services. Terrorism attacks against the United States on 11 September also had consequences for services in this country and thus also for control activities. All three services have provided the sample with detailed information on the changes and re-priorities of activities made since 11 September. The Christian People's Party believes that the issues dealt with by the sample and the controls that have been carried out are properly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1907	The Central Party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, and I will briefly explain our views on the matter that has been affected by most of this, namely the termination of the Defence Command. Representatives of the Government Parties and the Workers' Party have said in the debate that the Stortinget should ‘keep its hands on the barrel’ as long as a case is brought before the court. In principle, I agree that there is a great deal to be done to involve the Storting in legal proceedings and matters that the Government has to deal with in some way. On a principle basis, I agree with this. But I have to say that in this particular case, there is a lot that suggests that the Storting should deviate from such a practice, not least the fact that the EOS Committee has both been clear in its criticism of the procedure, that the matter has been closed by the EOS Committee and thus lies in the Stortinget, and that the Stortinget therefore also has to relate to the setting given by the sample. Any other conclusion from this will be to reject the position of the EOS Committee as controlling body to the Government. So, in my opinion, the Storting cannot put an appeal to a higher court of law before itself, in the way that the majority chooses to deal with this matter. I also stress that the State has suffered a clear loss in the city law, which has then decided that it should have the position back. Of course, since the Central Party is not represented in the Committee, we have not had the same insight into all the documents of the case as the other parties. But I notice that the committee leader uses very strong words in his criticism of the government's handling of this matter. Very strong words have been used by the Chairman of the Committee, and strong words have also been used in the comments of a minority in the Committee. This case has been pending for a long time, and I have to say that the Storting should not be in a situation where taking away some security clearance is used as a tool to deprive people of the position. The fact that, at the top of the whole thing, the government attorney argues in his appeal that there is no position in the defence that does not require security clearance, that the defence, for reasons which must be obvious, cannot have officials without security clearance, shows that excluding individuals or employees from security clearance is an easy way to get rid of sensitive people, because then you have per. definition not a job to go to. It is also part of what has been laid down in the anchor that has been promoted, as far as I understand, and that is possible for everyone to gain insight into. It has also been sent to the other parties to this conflict. I would just like to end briefly by recommending that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of joint motions by the Progress Party and the SV, and also vote in favour of proposals by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1920	I will first begin by saying that I am fully aware of the important job the EOS Committee has to do. I am fully aware that it is important, precisely in relation to the secret services, that some people take the best possible care of the legal certainty of the individual, and that this is also the subject of consideration in the control committee, should be lacking. Secondly, I would like to say that this case, which is referred to as ‘Case 1’, has now been dealt with under three state councils. The EOS Committee has criticised the procedure in the ministry during this period. The reason why it is so important to listen to the criticism of the EOS Committee is that regardless of what is right and wrong in this case, whether there was a basis or no basis for the withdrawal of the security clearance – it should be decided in the court – it is important that no questions can be raised about the integrity of the Department, the FO/S and the Defence Command when a processed individual, as the situation is here. The ministry is the appeal body, and when last year the Stortinge dealt with the annual report of the EOS Committee, the EOS Committee presented criticisms of transparency. It was also asked, just after the bulk treatment, that the department went through the matter again in the most unwarranted way possible. This was asked by the EOS Committee. The current Council of State Godal said here in the Chamber that he agreed with what emerged, both from the Control Committee and from the EOS Committee, that transparency should be given, and the then Council of State Godal also informed the department – just after the letter from the EOS Committee last year, early in July – that a new review should be carried out in line with the indications of the EOS Committee. I fully agree with Godal's assessment, and I fully agree that it was important to take the critical remarks of the EOS Committee to follow up and actually do something about it. Since then there has been a new handling of the appeal in the department, with a new case handler on the case. The result of that review was that, in relation to the actual references to security breaches related to the expiry of the security clearance itself, the Ministry maintained the same view over all three Council periods. But also in the last letter from the EOS Committee, which is reflected in the annual report that is being discussed today, it is said that it is critical that there has been an oral procedure in the department, and it is specifically referred to a meeting between ministerial staff and witnesses in this specific case, where written records have been made, but not in the form of a record agreed by both parties afterwards. This has led to different perceptions among those present at the same meeting, of what was actually said at the meeting. It's critical. The EOS Committee has said that it is critical, and I fully agree. Then the point is, as a state council now, I can't change things that happened under other state councils, or that have happened, but what I can do is be crystal clear that criticism from the EOS committee will be taken seriously, and will have an impact on the ministry's future treatment of such issues. I have also signaled that we are taking, among other things. in a letter to the SV’s Enlargement Group, by providing guidelines within the Department on both the type of written procedure in the future, and what a most unwarranted review means in practice, namely not just replacing case handlers, but actually putting a new section manager on the case, i.e. the closest leader. So once again to the very case that stands before the court, and that of course I cannot go into reality. Recognising that the ministry has had a process that could have been better throughout the period of the case, from 1999 to the present, and making suggestions for improvements, I can do so, but from there to conclude that the fundamental issues raised by the safety clearance breach itself are not going to be clarified in the courts, that is another matter. That is why I have appealed the case, and that is my decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1936	I think it is good that the Council of States is taking on board the consequences of the criticism, i.e. what is going on with the future treatment of that kind of thing. However, the Council of State has contributed to the fact that we have a picture of a person who has committed 31 security breaches, despite the fact that this has been refused in court, despite the fact that the director-in-chief of the department for several years says that they have never considered the director a security threat, and despite the fact that the director of the department, when the matter of the revocation of the security clearance was planned, was sent out on mission where classified information was processed. This image of a person who has committed 31 security clearance breaches is also taken up again in this room, and it is therefore so important that the Council of State is clear about it. What does the Council of State think that when two heads, not any bosses, but two superiors, stand up with a positive picture of the department director, their testimonies are distorted? This is also what makes the EOS range write: ‘What is available must be said to be suitable for weakening confidence in the objectivity and coverage of the description given in the Ministry’s letter.’ So my question is, won't the Council of State see that there may be opportunities for the witnesses to be abused, and if so, will she regret it? And will the Council of State admit that in this case, the appeal procedure has been called, to put it mildly?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1948	As a government council, I said not only that I have changed the procedures for the future in the department, but I also said that I agreed with the criticism that the EOS committee has addressed to the department during all the three Council periods that are relevant here. I have read the correspondence between the EOS Committee and the department very carefully. And the critical points that have been made, I understand, were put forward. So I look both at the procedures ahead, and I recognize that the points that the EOS Committee has raised have been critical of the procedure. The reason for that is not that I think someone in the department has been in a bad mood, because I don't think so. But only the fact that individuals can be questioned as to whether adequate, proper treatment is serious enough. Then I would say in relation to this with the 31 security breaches: they should never have been mentioned that way. It has simply been that when he lost his security clearance, there were 31 security breaches that were the defence chief command's reasons for wanting to deprive him of the security clearance. That's what the comment meant to refer to, nothing about what had to be real or not real. It's up to the court to decide. So I would like to say one more thing: when it comes to the testimonies about what happened in the meeting with the department's employees, in relation to the ministry's experience of what happened in that meeting, I see no reason to say that one person has more right than the other. I recognise and see that there is a different perception of what happened in the meeting. The critical point is not that there are different opinions about it, but the critical point is that there was no written record that was then distributed to the present, so that one could agree on what was actually said in the meeting. That has been criticised by the EOS Committee, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1957	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The President had a profitable hope that this matter could be dealt with in the morning meeting, but is now a little uncertain, so it is possible that we must continue with the Council of State at Dørum at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1960	Very briefly, we have this situation with this clear view of this one matter and the judiciary and the Storting and all these things. I'm not going to do it again, because we're probably going to have a chance of going deeper into it in another context. But I have some questions for the Council of State. A person is dismissed, the case is pending in court, there is a lower court sentence that the State is completely losing, an appeal is promoted, and, at the same time – if I have understood correctly – a new position is offered to him. Then I have to ask the Council of State: firstly, is it offered a job? Secondly, is there a relevant position in relation to his/her qualifications and previous position and role? If this position were not acceptable to him, would he then be offered other posts pending the final clearance of this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1965	I would like to pay close attention to the fact that I am familiar with the fact that the defence has offered him a position where the wording is – as far as I can remember – an adequate position. I think that the detailed specification of what should be done should be in communication between the person concerned and the employer, which in this case is the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1970	In the case of the last Council of State said, this person does not perceive that he has been offered an adequate position. I would like to remind you of what is on the ground of appeal, however, that being declared safe is a requirement for any position at this level of defence. I see the Council of State's response to me as a recognition that the criticism of the EOS Committee is justified, also in relation to the department's responsibilities further. So we're actually left with the single thing that we're talking about. I also see it as a regret that the picture is created that this is a person who has committed 31 security breaches, and I think it is good that the Council of State regrets it. I would like a confirmation that she regrets that that picture has been created. So it's important in the future that we look at this single thing. I would challenge the Council of State to respond to the following: In view of the fact that we can face some minor breaches, and in view of the fact that this person was actually sent out on a mission where there was a requirement to process classified information, does she believe that the reaction he has received, the only person he has to go through in the judiciary, is reasonable? How will she deal with similar issues in the future, and how will she ensure that there is no basis for misuse of the security clearance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1979	To the last one first. How will the Council of State deal with similar matters in the future? The most important thing here is that if there is a critical aspect of the EOS Committee, that it is then followed up quickly and efficiently by the Department, that we recognise the EOS Committee as it is supposed to be, namely a control body – it should be lacking. The main reason why we do that is that those who are the most deserving of trust in both the Security Staff and the Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence are the top three institutions. Another thing is what I mentioned in the letter to SV. I have asked the Department to go even further in defining what a new unhindered review means, that is, how close one might have been to the matter earlier in order to deal with a matter that is to have a new review, and I have given clear guidelines on the writing of this type in order to avoid that people who have been sitting in the same meeting actually have a different perception of what happened in the meeting, especially where this relates to matters related to the EOS Committee. With regard to the 31 security breaches that were originally stated as a reason for the loss of security clearance, that is what I have referred to, and I have no statements either now or recently that are intended to prosecut the difference in perception between him and the Defence Command on how many security breaches there were in reality. It's up to the courts to come up with that. If I've been perceived as proselytizing, it's not intentional. Our short point was to refer to what was the original rationale.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e1989	I think the Council of State has given a clear account of the measures taken to improve procedures and procedures in the ministry in these kinds of cases. But it was one of Ågot Valle's questions that remained unanswered by the Council of State, which I would like to allow myself to repeat. The council said he was offered a position in the defense. But in the appeal of the Lawyers' Court, it says the following: ‘However, being declared safe is a requirement for any position in the Contingent’ – at the level of that person – ‘– and otherwise almost absolutely any position in the Defence. The Court of First Instance states on page 19 that ‘With the qualifications which he possesses, it is possible, as it has been stated, to give him tasks which do not really require safety clearance’. This must be considered to be an error in the assessment of evidence. As mentioned above, there is no such position in the Defence. The defence will not, for reasons that should be obvious, have officials without security clearance.’ If this is the case, as the Council of State claims, that he has been offered a position in the Defence Office, why is this point included in the appeal to the Lawyers' Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e2002	I thank Odd Roger Enoksen for the question, because there wasn't enough time to answer it instead, but now I get the opportunity to take it anyway. But here I have to be careful, because here you are dangerous to start discussing things that will be the subject of proceedings in the courtroom. That is why I believe that I agree with what I said instead: I am aware that a letter has been sent from the Defence Officer to the person who says that he will be offered the relevant adequate position. What is contained in that content, I think he has to clarify in close contact with the defence as an employer. So instead of touching the case that will come, in general say that one of the things the EOS committee points out is, among other things. the need for possible security clearances on platforms, the need to take care of key social security features, which in the future should cause security clearance. It could then be said in a hoard about the future that there may also be more jobs in the Defence Department where in the future there is no need for security clearance. So here we are distinguishing between today's systems and the systems of the future, but here there will probably be a possibility for a review in view of the future of meeting the need for stricter requirements for security clearance in certain parts of society related to social security, and also of examining whether there may be more jobs in other parts of the system that will not need the same degree of security clearance as has been had so far. But then we are talking about the future and not about this specific matter, because it has to be decided among other things. in the legal instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-19.ana.ud289e2013	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The President will now cancel the meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is the State Council Odd Einar Dørum.
