ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e32	Norway worked long and hard and spent $10 million to get a seat on the UN Security Council. SV supported this, but we also said that if Norway was to have something to do in the Security Council, it had to be to mark clear opinions, not to dilate after the United States. Now we're halfway in the period, and we're going to have the presidency in March. It is appropriate to ask what role Norway plays in the Security Council, what we use our place for, and what benefits Norway can do in the world community. There is no reason to doubt that a solid job has been done on the part of Norway regarding the administrative aspects of our work in the Security Council. The specific tasks we have been given indicate that we are reaping recognition: Norway heads the sanctions committee for Iraq, and we have helped to change the sanctions a bit on the way. Norway shall chair the Peacekeeping Forces Committee and Norway shall have a leading role in drawing the boundaries between Eritrea and Ethiopia, thereby laying the basis for lasting peace after a war that has cost tens of thousands of lives. Norway has placed great emphasis on Africa. That's natural, because very many of today's conflicts are happening right there. If Norway can contribute to a stronger UN effort to resolve conflicts in Africa, we will have made important contributions. At the discretion of the SV, Norway has first and foremost marked administrative strength. It is more difficult to see the political ambitions for Norway’s work in the Security Council. I think it is striking that neither the Sem Declaration nor the Government Declaration mentioned Norway's role in the Security Council in one word. We're a little country in the world. We're outside the EU, but we're in NATO. SV believes that the most central thing should not be to promote Norwegian interests and open doors to ourselves, but that we can contribute to a UN-led world order, to safeguard human rights and to develop international law. It's a demanding task at a time when new issues force themselves after the end of the Cold War, when the world is left with one superpower, the United States, and most wars and conflicts are civil wars within the framework of the nation-states, where ethnicity and religion are often used in power games. After 11 September and a US-led war against the Taliban and terrorism, the map is redrawn, new alliances have been established, and new opportunities and challenges for the UN are on the agenda. During Norway's campaign to get into the Security Council, we stopped at the doors of controversial conflicts than before in order not to run into countries that could vote on us. One example of this was that the Norwegian government did not at all express itself critically about the sanctions against Iraq, while it became more and more evident that these did not work as intended. But even after Norway actually got a place, we have shown an eye-catching consensus with the United States on almost all questions. It is time for Norway to adopt a more independent stance on important international issues. SV is pleased with Norway’s commitment to conflict in Africa, but we are disappointed with the handling of the Middle East issue by Norway in the Security Council. Norway has played an important role in the Oslo process and in communicating between the parties. This role is also being played by Norway after the situation has turned black, and it is difficult to see a peaceful solution in the near future. In the Security Council, Norway has twice failed to demonstrate support for the demand for international observers in the Middle East. The United States has vetoed, and Norway has voted blank. It is argued that there is little sense in provoking an opinion that would nevertheless be vetoed, and that there were distortions in the text that were presented. However, in the context of the proceedings at the General Assembly, this argument goes away. There, countries are primarily required to express their own views. But even here, the man Norway does not intend to support the proposal of international observers. We could have helped put pressure on both Israel and the United States – but we didn't. Norway now needs to decide whether we will use the opportunities we have to play a political role in the Middle East – or whether we will have no role at all. The time for communication between the parties seems to be over. Only the United States can put pressure on Israel to make them want a peace agreement. Norway can put pressure on the United States and do its part to ensure that there is a fair peace. Without a fair peace agreement in which the Palestinians are not being pushed from side to side, there will be no peace in this area. Norway has finally led itself to protest against Israel's imprisonment of President Arafat. For two months, Israel has done all they can to undermine the authority that the Palestinians' legally elected president both demand and need to be the counterparty with which Israel can negotiate. Now there's no sign that Sharon is at all interested in coming to any negotiating table. And if the rumors about today's interview tomorrow in Israeli newspapers are true, that Sharon regrets that he didn't kill Arafat 20 years ago, then there's no peace pigeon talking – then there's a war elevator talking. Indeed, a massive pressure from the United States is needed to reach a peace agreement, and a world society is needed to put the conflict into its proper proportions. Norway can play a political role there. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously answered questions from SV here in the United Kingdom and agreed that Israel is violating the resolutions and international law in force and that they are occupying Palestine. It should lead to a completely different and much clearer view that Israeli settlements must be stopped as an absolute requirement for a fair peace, and not as the government's review theme: the violence on both sides must be stopped. Since the Oslo Agreement in 1993, residential activity has increased by 52 p.m. and many new settlements have been established. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how can it be expected that the victims of the occupying power are those who should have the primary responsibility for peace? How is it possible to veto Palestinian suicide activists and let them decide whether peace negotiations should continue? Does Norway today have a role in the Middle East conflict that requires us to be as careful as we actually are? What role does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think Norway should continue? And how can we protect the resolutions that the United Nations has actually made on the main content of the Oslo Agreement, and put pressure not only on Israel but also on the United States? The terrorist action against the World Trade Center and the US response have drawn new maps in international policy and provided a number of challenges for the UN. Today, I think it would be interesting to hear the foreign minister's views on the content of the State of the Union speech recently delivered by Bush to the U.S. Congress. Bush had a very peculiar tone on the part of the United States. He drew the axis of evil like North Korea, Iraq and Iran, used very strong words, and he warned that the war of terror could be extended. If Bush were to be serious about continuing the war on terror, for example. against Iraq, a very dangerous situation will arise. The fragile alliance that the United States has managed to achieve in the weeks after September 11th will break. An extension of the war to Iraq will raise considerable resistance in Muslim countries, Russia and also among NATO countries. World society can be in a very tense situation. And that can happen – not only while Norway is a member of the Security Council, but perhaps also during the Presidency period in March. Now there is a drag fight between the Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Affairs of the United States. Strong forces in the Ministry of Defence will extend the war and further bomb to Iraq. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the counter-representations are that broad international support will spread. What does Norway mean? So what the rest of the world now says, and our arguments can matter what decisions are actually taken, and then it's important that they come now, and not the day that the war elevators win. Bush's speech is alarming in several ways. The UN doesn't matter here. He describes a world order in which the United States picks its allies in the conflict they are now facing. And for an intense NATO trailer like Secretary of State Petersen, it is also remarkable that NATO is not mentioned by name. NATO is discussing up pillars and down walls what role NATO is now going to play in the future. In the United States, Bush picks his closest allies and treats NATO in a way that he would choose goods from the shelves of a supermarket. What role does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think the UN and the Security Council will play in the weeks and months that come to mind in the many and serious issues that may arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e69	In his interpellation, Kristin Halvorsen raises two important and interesting questions. It is: How has Norway used its membership of the Security Council? And how do they use it? In the first 1⁄2 minutes of Kristin Halvorsen's posts, I actually thought that she was also interested in this issue, but here today we have actually faced the rather interesting and rare phenomenon that the interpellant has become uninterested in its own interpellation and would rather talk about two other foreign policy issues, namely the Middle East and Iraq. I'm going to try to get into them too, but I think it's very important that we stick to what are the interesting questions, like how we're going to use our membership of the Security Council. However, I just want to say first that in the Middle East, the premises of the interpellation that have been promoted are so random in their selection and so remarkable that they are not suitable to serve as a basis for a discussion on these themes. I must also say that when Kristin Halvorsen raises the question of Norway has a role in the Middle East now, it is actually a rather small, but interesting point in what came from the Security Council yesterday. There was a press statement by all members of the Security Council, where at the end of the opinion they mentioned those countries dealing specifically with Middle East issues, and the following are listed: the EU, the United States, Russia, Norway, China and other countries involved in the peace process. With that in mind, I think Kristin Halvorsen is going to have a very significant problem selling the reality that Norway now has no important role to play in the Middle East. So I think we can say that the very basic premise of Kristin Halvorsen is now parked. But let's still talk a little bit about what Kristin Halvorsen really asked about, but lost interest in. It concerns Norwegian membership of the Security Council. I think it is very important that we engage in the full scope of the Security Council's work. This means that Norway has undertaken very resource-intensive tasks, including: in the Sanctions Committee for Iraq and in the Working Party on Peacekeeping Operations. I think it's an underestimation of those tasks when Kristin Halvorsen referred to them as administrative tasks, as far as I understood it. These are tasks of great importance. Central to our success in our work is that we have good cooperation with the other members of the Security Council, both the five permanents and the ten non-permanent. Such cooperation is a prerequisite for influence. It is the Council which exercises influence, not the individual Member State. Only when the members of the Council are united will the decisions be effective. The clear most important task of the Presidency is to be a driving force for advice to act as a powerful body with the necessary political weight behind the decisions. It must work for comprehensive solutions and the initiatives and measures required by the situation. The main objective of the month of the President of Norway must therefore be to ensure effective and orderly handling of ongoing cases. The President must be useful for the Council's ability to fulfil the mandate laid down in the United Nations Charter, namely to work to secure or restore international peace and security. It is not a general foreign policy discussion forum. We're going to have ambitions for the presidency, but at the same time we need to have a realistic and sober view of what is possible in relation to our own priorities. Work for peace and security on the African continent is taking on a large part in the work of the Security Council, and is at the same time one of the main priorities for our period in the Council. Norway has been primarily responsible for the preparatory examination of opinions and decisions on the Horn of Africa ever since we entered the Council. Thus, in January 2001, we actively helped to prevent the early lifting of the arms embargo against Ethiopia and Eritrea, among other things. The United States was for. The mandate of the peacekeeping force between the two countries, UNMEE, will be extended in March. We will use this opportunity to create new momentum in the peace process. Norway recently led the work of a Presidential Opinion of the Council, the main objective of which was to oblige both Ethiopia and Eritrea to accept the decision of the United Nations designated Border Commission expected to take place at the end of February. We're also going to lead the Security Council's mission to Ethiopia and Eritrea next month. I myself had conversations with both the Ethiopian and the Eritrean Foreign Minister at the UN General Assembly last November, and I am planning a possible visit to the region in the near future to help, if possible, support the peace process. If anyone thinks this is uninteresting, I would remind you that hundreds of thousands of people are killed in this conflict. The situation in Afghanistan and the fight against international terrorism will undoubtedly be at the heart of the Security Council's agenda also in March and will, of course, be given the highest priority by the Norwegian side. However, how the Council will deal with these two important issues will depend on developments in the coming weeks. Norway's Presidency of the Afghanistan Support Group gives us an international leadership role in the effort to meet the huge humanitarian and reconstruction needs of the Afghans and to support the political process in the country. We will do this in close cooperation with the Security Council and the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan. I am very determined to remember so many discussions in Stortinget during the autumn that I am sure that Stortinget believes that this is an important priority. Norway's leadership of the Sanctions Committee for Iraq is in every way a demanding task. We have constantly been actively promoting the conversion of the sanctions regime with a view to improving the humanitarian situation of the civilian population while at the same time preventing Iraq from again being a threat to peace and security in the region through, among other things. the development of new weapons of mass destruction. I think this is a very important priority. Having a clear front against Iraq's development of weapons of mass destruction, I think we should all stand together instead of attacking those who make that issue clear. I am very pleased that, at the end of November last year, the Security Council decided to amend the sanctions by 30 May this year, in line with what Norway has been working for since we became a member of the Council. Now it is that Kristin Halvorsen asked me how we evaluated the work that has been done so far. To say that I have only been responsible for three of the 13 months Norway has had membership of the Security Council. I just have good things to say about my predecessor's handling these questions, and I want to say that even if this is what we're talking about, occurred in my period of responsibility, then there's no doubt that it's Thorbjørn Jagland of the two of us who are going to have the credit that this really happened. The Secretary-General's next report on UN weapons inspectors to Iraq will be held on 1 March and will then be discussed in the Council. Whether we can make progress on the issue of the deployment of UN inspectors with possible subsequent suspension of sanctions is primarily up to Iraq to decide. It shall not be in the Presidency's best interests. In the Balkans, developments in Kosovo will require careful follow-up by the Security Council. The follow-up to the provincial elections last November and the establishment of democratic institutions in Kosovo will therefore be subject to the attention of the Security Council in March. Another of Norway’s main priorities for membership of the Security Council is to contribute to strengthening the UN’s work on planning and implementing peacekeeping operations. I am therefore very pleased that, at the beginning of January of this year, we were elected Chairman of the Security Council Working Party on Peacekeeping Operations. The working group will be a good platform for further work on such issues, both during the Presidency month and in the further work of the Council. The mandate of the United Nations' greatest peacekeeping force, UNAMSIL in Sierra Leone, will be renewed in March of our presidency. Consultations prior to the renewal of the mandate will be an important task for the Norwegian Presidency. A third of our main priorities in the Council will be to focus in particular on the underlying causes of war and conflict. Such a current theme is the relationship between conflict and the plundering of a country's natural resources. Unfortunately, rich natural resources are not always a guarantee of growth and development. This type of conflict is particularly numerous in Africa, a number of which are already on the Security Council's agenda and are subject to sanctions regimes. In order to clarify what can be done to prevent this type of conflict, Norway has taken the initiative of a seminar in New York under our presidency. The outcome of the preparatory work, as well as of the seminar itself, will be made available to the members of the Security Council. Finally, only two comments on the Middle East. For my part, I am very comfortable with the vote that both Thorbjørn Jagland and I are responsible for in this area. And as my answer showed, these two resolutions, I think, have contributed to the fact that we are as central a player as this press statement carries a bid. For us, it's very important that you now come back from the edge of the abyss, and that we try to get the parties back together. That's the background for saying what we're doing. When Kristin Halvorsen used the word «final» about the statement that was given yesterday, I just have to say that I have had – and talked about – that position for weeks, but it is good that it now goes in here as well. To conclude, I am aware that I have now responded to what Kristin Halvorsen asked about, not necessarily the same as having responded to what she is interested in. But I'm going to assume that maybe we should focus on what she's actually asking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e111	I think I have my own ability to embarrass the foreign minister, who is otherwise a peaceful man. To be honest, however, it may not be a great surprise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the issue of Norway's role in the Security Council brings forward the two areas that represent the most acute challenges to world peace right now. And when I also put so much emphasis on the situation in the Middle East in the interpellation, it can't come as Christmas Eve on the bitch that I allow myself to ask some questions about what role Norway actually plays. It's a very serious situation in the Middle East right now. I note that today the Foreign Minister has been out commenting on what is probably a leak from an interview that is being printed in Israeli newspapers tomorrow, where Sharon regrets that he did not take the job at President Arafat in 1982. And that's what the man -- Sharon -- does in a situation where it looks black on all sides. I would like to have the Foreign Minister's assessment of what peace he now sees on the part of Israel, and whether he has any faith that Sharon, even if one could manage to get to a situation where President Arafat got his people with him to enter into new peace negotiations, would be ready for such negotiations. Firstly, Arafat has been under house arrest and humiliated over the last two months. Many of the self-government institutions that would help maintain order on the Palestinian side, Israel itself has bombed and thus made Arafat less able to carry out order work on its own. And since there was actually a break in the suicide action, after Arafat's speech, Sharon didn't even take that chance. What is the Foreign Minister's assessment of Israel's will for peace? That's question No. 1st@item: inlistbox The second is the Minister of Foreign Affairs' assessment of some of the views expressed by President Bush, for Norway can now sit there with a considerable drag on the American side, where Bush, with a very aggressive use of language, declares both North Korea, Iraq and Iran as the great, ugly wolves of the world society – I see that there has been a response from Iran today, where it is said that it is an honor to be the enemy of the United States. These opinions also refer to the Middle East conflict, and it is clearly seen as a declaration of war against Muslim countries. Is this wise in relation to the tense situation you are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e122	The President would like to point out that the expression 'to put it on' is a well-spoken form of speech in this Parliamentary assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e125	I think it's refreshing from time to time with verbal exchanges, but I'm going to stay away from it. I must also admit that I did not quite hear the opening attempt of Kristin Halvorsen. I'm not sure if she thought I was honest or boring – but it might not be necessary to go so deep into it. As far as the Middle East is concerned, I just have to admit – and I think everyone does – that we are looking pretty dark at the situation as it is now. I'm not a moment in doubt about it. I am also not in any doubt for a moment that a very significant pressure needs to be put on the Israeli side to get them back to the negotiating table. I've said that many times, but I'm using this opportunity to repeat it. There is no doubt that the terrorist bombing that has taken place, except that it is humanly irresponsible, in many ways also has played a lot of cards into Sharon's hands, not least in Israeli opinion. Therefore, I think it has been very important for the dynamics of the negotiations that we are very clear that this terror is unacceptable and must stop. That was the background to the pressure that was put in, and as Kristin Halvorsen very rightly said in his first post, led to a significant decline in violence after the speech that was given on December 16. I think it was a very important speech. It was important that it was kept in Arabic, but it is quite clear that it did not come of itself. It came from a press that I have the very best conscience to have participated in. But what is crucial, and that should have been done, is that the Israelis had shown greater willingness to give Arafat something back. There were some minimal reliefs that were introduced, but so little that it is virtually undetected. It had been very important that they had not helped undermine the Palestinian self-government authorities, had not humiliated Arafat, and had not made sure that the money he should have had to run his own administration was not transferred to him. These have been central parts of my message for a long time, not least in the conversations with Sharon. When Kristin Halvorsen asks about house arrest, I've been very clear about this all along. And just around Christmas it got a symbol expression by refusing to travel to the Christmas celebration in Bethlehem. It was of the very concrete things that I took up. Now the lamp is shining. I should have liked to have said a little more about the Middle East. I just want to say that in the case of the State of the Union, it is very clear when it comes to, among other things. Iraq. But I assume that we all have strong objections to Iraq's policy. I hope that Kristin Halvorsen will also say more about it. But that speech is in many ways overinterpreted, for it does not have the operational grips of which Kristin Halvorsen gave the impression. It says what it says. But I'm going to agree with Kristin Halvorsen that it would have been nice if there had been anything about NATO there, if she was first concerned about one point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e140	When Norway took its seat in the United Nations Security Council on 1 January 2001, the representative of Blankenborg characterised the Norwegian ambitions with the following adjectives: realistic, low-level and results-oriented. The then Labour Party Government had three main objectives for the work of the Security Council: Focus on the link between peace and developmentThe ability of the UN to plan and implement the peace operation in particular focus on Africa Of course, the three objectives were closely linked. Norway has long had the objective of strengthening the UN’s trusting role in Africa as the only organisation with confidence and authority to play such a role. At the same time, we all know that the biggest poverty challenges lie just in Africa. Membership of the Security Council is important. It's prestigious, but it's hard at the same time. Let's admit it! Trust and trust are essential, including: through dialogue with regional, tone-setting countries. The value of interaction and distance in relation to western countries and of visibility and profile cannot be sufficiently underlined. We should also be aware that day-to-day work and the unforeseeable will have to take a lot of time. We've seen that in the Security Council. On 11 September, Afghanistan, the Middle East, Ethiopia and Eritrea are in this context. Here Norway has made an effort for which it is respected. In the case of Africa, Norway has done a lot of work in, among others. Somalia, Sudan and Sierra Leone. Here it has also been important that we have been present even after the conflicts are over. Otherwise, I would like to give real praise for the Norwegian efforts to change the sanctions regime against Iraq. The Foreign Minister has also said a lot about that, and so did the interpellant. We have also been working to strengthen the UN's capacity to take action on conflict prevention, and have, among other things. an initiative to establish a UN fund in the field of preventive diplomacy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to the Peacekeeping Forces Working Group. The work of leading the Afghanistan Support Group is probably going to be extra demanding, so I want the Foreign Minister to be happy with that work. We must remember that the Security Council is a collective. So we're not alone, and Roma was not built in one day. I think we should also remember that when we look at the work we are doing in the Security Council. Finally, in our foreign policy, Norway has always focused on promoting the values on which our own society is based: democracy, well-being, equality, popular participation, etc. It is in many ways the Nordic dimension of politics, where foreign policy becomes most relevant to people, and that is also the case with our work in the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e165	In the interpellant, the interpellant states that ‘Norway is a major contributor to Norway’s action in the Council’ and refers to Norwegian vote in the resolution to send UN observers to the Middle East. I believe that the Foreign Minister's statement has thoroughly refuted this starting point. Norway uses its own apparatus outside and at home to provide an independent basis for its own positions. Norway follows no other line than its own. However, with regard to the issue of the Security Council Resolution on the deployment of observers, I understand that there is a need to justify the vote as you did. That reason has also been given to Stortinget. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that the resolution’s references to terrorism and violence were too weak, that the resolution lacked the necessary balance with the parties, and that the Government’s objective that the Security Council should be able to make a positive contribution to resolving the ongoing conflict in the Middle East is only possible as long as the Security Council stands united behind a resolution on the Middle East. So that was not the case with the resolution to which the representative, Mr Halvorsen, refers. The government therefore considered this to be negative for the Middle East peace efforts. This underlines a very important recognition in the work of the Security Council. Norway is at its most constructive when we can contribute to the creation of consensus and for the Security Council to be united on realistic and feasible measures. It is therefore a small point of light that the Security Council gathered yesterday on a joint press statement on the situation in the Middle East. It underlined that there is no military solution to this conflict, but that dialogue and negotiations are the way to go. And as the Foreign Minister said, Norway is also explicitly mentioned as one of the countries involved in the peace process. In fact, it has never happened before that Norway has been explicitly mentioned in an opinion of the Security Council on the Middle East. In other words, a comprehensive Security Council believes that Norway has a constructive role to play, but here, therefore, the representative Halvorsen disagrees with the Security Council. Norway, of course, has both opportunities and limitations in the Security Council and in the Middle East conflict. I believe that both our opportunities and our limitations are that we are a small country. Now that the situation is as critical as it is, perhaps our limitations come out more clearly. Of course, it creates frustration, but I think that the Security Council should be given a service to bear, but it should be noted that there is disagreement and conflict here. [[The President clubs.]] Then you have to act in the Security Council as if it were the General Assembly. I don't think that serves either the Security Council, the United Nations or the Middle East peace efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e176	The President will remind you that speaking time is to be held.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e179	In my opinion, the posts of the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, were strongly influenced by the fact that in some areas SV disagreed with Norwegian foreign policy. During last autumn we were marked several times in this hall, and it is a good thing. No one shall be able to take from SV or any other right to pre-defence their own vision. But I think it's going to be wrong when SV almost accuses the government of not following SV's foreign policy agenda. In my view, it would be strange if SV were quite satisfied. For the Progress Party, it is a good sign that SV is dissatisfied with Norway’s behaviour in the Middle East conflict. The party to progress is also critical of some aspects of the same conflict, but with a slightly different starting point than SV. Not least the criticisms made by Norway last night against both Israel and the United States. We'd like to see Norway lay on a different line. But we accept that the Progress Party here is in minority. However, it does not relieve us of being critical. But we realize that we cannot expect our positions to characterize our work in the Security Council. I would also like to add that, in relation to the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Progress Party does not significantly disagree with the work being done. The exception is some elements related to the Middle East conflict. We are also pleased with the work of Norway and the actions of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e188	The Bondevik I Government worked very actively for Norway's candidacy to the UN Security Council, and the government followed up Stoltenberg. And we succeeded in getting a place. The UN is a cornerstone of Norwegian foreign and development policy. Membership of the Security Council is about solidarity and our willingness to take responsibility for global problems such as war and conflict. It is also about our own security, as it is in the interests of small countries that the international community is as firmly anchored as possible in international law and through binding multinational operations through the UN and the Security Council. Norway has always been a strong supporter of the UN's efforts to promote international peace and development. That is why we applied for membership of the Security Council, so that we could be more involved in influencing the decisions that were made. I am aware that we are not alone in making decisions, but we still have a position as one of the largest donor countries, and we have experience that facilitates several peace processes. We therefore have an influence on the handling of matters, and we have an independent position and perspective in the Security Council. With the Presidency in March, we have a greater chance of setting the agenda. When we applied for membership, we had things we wanted to do with. This applies, for example, to: ensuring that the Security Council has taken greater account of a broad security concept in the approach to prevention and peace building in the context of conflict resolution. The UN needs a broad-based strategy to counter the underlying causes of war and conflict, such as poverty and underdevelopment, inequality and oppression. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the progress made in relation to this objective, and how to put such work into practice. To me, we seem to have a tendency to be quick out with financial help when conflict and war are a fact, but little is done to prevent such tragic outcomes. It has, for example, have been a major focus on Kosovo, the Middle East, Manhattan and Afghanistan. There are tragic events that deserve attention and where we want to help. But it can often become a little bit of a one-sided focus. Security is more than the absence of armed conflict, and in this context I would point out that Norway in the application process stressed that we wanted to pay particular attention to Africa. Through our aid exposure and our support for mediation and reconciliation, Norway has good knowledge of Africa and therefore also a particular emphasis on promoting matters relating to Africa. Here too, we can engage in conflict prevention and peace-building work. The Security Council itself recognised the impact of HIV/AIDS on peace and security. AIDS threatens security in a broad perspective, as the epidemic endangers fundamental conditions that people need to live safe, healthy and productive lives. Many of the current conflicts in Africa are widespread and remain unresolved. I can mention that both in Angola, Congo and Sierra Leone there are very serious security problems. This requires great attention from the Security Council. How will Norway work towards the involvement of the Security Council in a broad and preventive effort to find solutions to the many unresolved conflicts in Africa, and how, for example, can the situation in Kosovo teach us something about the importance of prevention? There are 54 000 soldiers here – about 1 000 Norwegians. We use huge resources for military purposes. It must be a task for Norway now to raise the issue in the Security Council about the importance of identifying potential conflicts long in advance, and then to focus on peace and reconciliation, trust and friendship between enemies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e208	The Central Party has previously stated that we are incomprehensible to the Norwegian vote related to sending UN observers to the Middle East. In this respect, we agree with SV. But there is a lot of evidence that SV has unrealistic ideas about what the Presidential month of the Security Council can be used for. When the vice-chairman of an interview gives the impression that the President’s month can be used to push financial sanctions against Israel, there is evidence of a lack of understanding of the work of the Security Council. If there's something that doesn't work in the Security Council, it's breaking in. Here it's only the fine diplomacy that works if you're going to have any kind of chance of bringing things forward. The Security Council is not the place to conduct symbol policies. The Security Council has a defined agenda. The Presidency is responsible for ensuring sound management of current matters and at the same time bringing matters forward. The ongoing efforts of the Norwegian Sanctions Committee in the Ethiopian-Eritrea conflict and in the work on peacekeeping operations are only to be given due consideration. The centre party has great confidence that the craft part of the job will be preserved in an excellent way from the Norwegian side. But in addition to the ongoing work, the President's month gives the opportunity to put one or a few of his own matters on the agenda. This possibility should definitely be used by the Norwegian side, and here is what we want for a maybe a little more offensive line. In view of the Norwegian leadership of the Afghanistan Support Group, the Centre Party considers it natural that the Government should use the opportunity to focus on the importance of reconstruction work in Afghanistan and its funding. Furthermore, the Centre Party believes that the opportunity to focus more strongly on the humanitarian agenda should be used, for example. by raising the issue of small arms on the international agenda. The small arms kill, the small arms destabilise, and the small arms expose the civilian population to great suffering. We are pleased that the Government will take initiatives to create a debate on issues related to the economic driving forces that cause conflict. This is a forward-looking theme. In party speeches, many people talk about the need to build an expanded security concept, but it has proved very difficult to operate it. Economic driving forces that cause conflict are precisely an interesting operationalisation of the concept. This theme is relevant to a number of African countries, such as Angola, countries in West Africa or countries around the major seas. These are countries that are characterised by disintegration and where authorities do not control large parts of the country. Insurgent groups are often financed by the gross exploitation of natural resources such as diamonds and tropical timber. As you can see, the problem also has an interesting environmental aspect. The Central Party therefore encourages the Government to go further in this work and hopes that it will be possible not only to hold a seminar in connection with the President-in-Office's month, but also to bring the issue into the Security Council's agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e219	It's unbelievably funny that everyone in the debate has been talking about the interpellant, except the interpellant. But in return, she was very pleased that she has picked up the Foreign Minister, so it is certainly a lot strange that you can use the Stockholm Chair for. But when it comes to the interpellation, about the work of the Security Council, it was when Norway entered the Security Council, so that one saw the boundaries, and therefore one was also very careful to flag specific cases. One thing came quickly on the agenda, namely the Iraqi sanctions. Norway, of course not alone, but together with others, on which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved, has been implemented for a policy to change the sanctions. But this also illustrates the limits of the work in the Security Council in a very good way – that it is possible through work in the Security Council to change policies in a direction that we want, that there are limits to how far it is going, and how fast it is possible to go, but the direction is clear. For the UN Security Council, a Norwegian flag pole is not. There is a job to shape policies, and that must be the basis, without reducing ambitions. The three main points that Norway highlighted at the entrance to the membership of the Security Council are equally relevant and will be there for decades to come, probably. That's why it wasn't that one could expect one to get very concrete insights at all points, but that Norway could be involved in and behind in the policy that the UN is pursuing through the Security Council at the point of the relationship between peace and development, which Åslaug Haga was involved here, and also in peace operations, which are becoming more difficult and more difficult. For more and more operations, resources for operations will be more difficult and more difficult to obtain if others do not take on that task. And that's the focus on Africa that many people here have on. It's not that one solves this dilemma quickly, but one puts it on the map, and there it should be, so that others follow up on it. And Norway has to follow it up after the time in the Security Council has come to an end. A more general debate on the situation in the Middle East is expected to come back at the end of February or when there would be a general foreign policy debate, and the many important recordings taken by the representative Halvorsen are naturally included in such a debate. The working party believes that the work in the Security Council is so important that one would focus on it in this round, and I therefore also appreciate the interaction that SV addressed, just to keep the focus on the work in the Security Council. One point that was not particularly prominent, but which was rightly mentioned when Norway was a member of the Security Council, and which one might want to see if there is more to it, is about helping this period in the Security Council to create greater understanding in Norway of what the Security Council and the United Nations really are. The events have probably made it a little bit in the background, but it's an important thing, not least this interpellation debate may also indicate from what some speakers have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e232	The interpellant showed in his intervention that from the regime in Iran it is said that it is an honor to have the United States as an enemy. The interpellant did not fully express that this is a reality she shares with the regime in Iran, but the red thread in her posts could at least be understood as meaning that the criterion of whether one plays a role in foreign policy, especially Norway, is whether one adopts the opposite positions of the United States. It means, as far as I can see, that the interpellant himself must have fallen for the same simplification that she accuses the Secretary of State and the Government, namely that it is the relationship with the United States that means everything in this world – just in the case of the interpellant with the opposite sign. Completely as simple as that, today's global reality probably isn't. Nor can it be the most interesting issue in foreign policy and international society, the role that Norway plays at any time, or the attention Norway is able to attract at all times. Just as far as membership of the Security Council and holding the Presidency of the Security Council is concerned, I would be inclined to turn that reasoning upside down and say that the criterion of doing a good job is that you are being minimized. The purpose of taking on that job is not to put Norway on the world map or to think of something spectacular that satisfies home opinion in Norway. My impression is that when Norway has so far heavy tasks that we actually have within today’s UN system – far beyond what our size should be in the world community – it is a testimony that Norway has built up a not insignificant trust over many decades because we have conducted a consistent and predictable and tidy foreign policy in this country. I am not sure whether Norway's position in the international context would have been equally strong if EN had had any influence on Norwegian foreign policy during this period. When we have the position we have, and when we can do so much useful work where peace is really threatened, both in the short term and in the long term, it's actually because there's been a broad cross-political consensus in this room about the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, and the broad lines have always crossed what has been SV's reality perception. I think both we and the world can be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e245	As a member of the UN Security Council, Norway is in the position to be involved and put matters on the agenda and to decide on issues of major importance for international peace and security. As a small country, we have a strong interest in helping to strengthen the authority and legitimacy of the Security Council and to contribute to the further development of an international legal order for the protection of human rights, the environment and democracy. We should therefore react clearly when the United States, as the world's only remaining superpower and veto in the Security Council, clearly indicates that they intend to act on their own and make their own interests the only guide in foreign policy. When Bush completely fails to talk about international cooperation, does not say a word about the UN, and not even about NATO, in its State of the Union speech, there should be a lot of alarm clocks to call the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in every small country. Today's SV interpellation is based on the fact that it seems that Norway is not able to act independently in relation to the United States and vote for what we are in favour of, even if the United States is against. Norway has been among those who have proposed sending international observers to the Middle East. Nevertheless, we have not voted in favour of this on the two occasions when the question has been raised in the Council. Both times the United States has vetoed. It is difficult to interpret what happened, especially the second time the theme came up, unlike Norway’s efforts not to bore the United States and Israel on its toes. But instead of inviting the Minister of Foreign Affairs to a debate on whether this was a reasonable consideration, he and the Government have shown bias in the text, etc. Norway has also acted very cautiously in relation to the Iraqi sanctions and has chosen a line close up to the United States and the United Kingdom. Of course, as a small country, we have to deal with the major powers. But in the SV's view, there is room for a much stronger commitment to peace and human rights, also in relation to conflicts where the major acts have their own interests. For the sake of the legitimacy of the Security Council, it is also important that the Council addresses conflicts in areas where the major acts have interests. In addition to a clearer defence of Palestinian rights, Norway should say more strongly to its eastern neighbour about the situation in Chechnya. This should be done by Norway even though Russia may use veto in any cases. The government seems to have chosen a line of work in the Security Council where we mark ourselves as good administrators, and without too many independent opinions. I could say that this is very similar to the government's general foreign policy, but fortunately that would not be quite right. Norway has an active and good aid policy, a clear commitment to human rights and to tackling global environmental problems. Couldn't we make this much clearer from our seat in the Security Council? It is quite possible to imagine that Norway could also gain influence by having its own opinions, and by wiping out controversial issues, especially if we combine this with administrative competence and knowledge of the conflicts in question. Then, too, the foreign policy line advocated by the majority in this Chamber could have been perceived by several as different from the ‘Norwegian America Line’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e256	First, a little comment to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who wondered if I thought he was honest or boring. In fact, I said peacefully. Then we have a third interpretation of my – possibly – mumbling. I have to say that I am a little stated, if it is so that the majority in this Chamber believes that when we discuss Norway's role in the Security Council, we should first of all stand and talk for three minutes about what we all agree on. The role of Norway in the Security Council is of particular importance in the cases where we now see that it burns the most. In that case, it is not SV who believe that Norway should break ahead. Then we're in a world situation where two actors are moving forward. One is Sharon, and the other is Bush. Both of them are in a rather critical situation. I would like to know what the Foreign Minister thinks might be the way forward after tomorrow it's under pressure in Israeli newspapers that Sharon regrets that he did not liquidate Arafat 20 years ago. It cannot be seen as anything but a very dangerous declaration of war and a further humiliation in a situation that is tense already. Isn't it time we wanted as clear a speech as possible to put the right proportions in that case? The other is in relation to Bush. It is a dangerous situation if the Bush administration continues and believes that the next round in the fight against terrorism is to bomb Iraq. It's not because someone in this room thinks Saddam Hussein is a hero. It is because we agree with what Mr Jagland, former foreign minister, writes in his book that the sanctions against Iraq were flawed because they did not weaken Saddam Hussein. On the contrary, they strengthened him. The purpose of the sanctions was not achieved by the way they were arranged. Then you have to ask yourself, when in this situation we have Norway's role in the Security Council up to debate, what we can do where it burns the most. Then it must be unwise for the leader of the world's only remaining superpower to express himself in such a way that the most harsh statements against the United States, even though the development in Iran has been both interesting and positive over the last few years, fall on the Iranian side. It is very important that Norway has a very clear position on these matters. It cannot be that if Norway acts like Ireland and France in the Security Council, we are undiplomatic and we are going ahead. Just a little comment at the end. Blankenborg was concerned about something that has also been a heart issue for SV for a long time, namely that we could have used more resources while we are now a member of the Security Council, to inform about the UN at home. It turns out that a minority of the Norwegian population are aware that we per year. is now a member of the Security Council. We would have had an opportunity to change it if we had used some more resources to raise awareness of the role of the United Nations in Norwegian opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e269	Of course, it must end there, namely that Kristin Halvorsen once again says that the most important thing is that we should settle with President Bush. She has talked about that in approx. Six months now. Time and time again she has pointed out statements that we must take a great distance from, as she says. What's interesting is that Kristin Halvorsen has repeatedly made mistakes in his foreign policy assessments. No one has been wrong so many times in the last six months as Kristin Halvorsen has done, and she's going on again. I must therefore say that I think that perhaps Kristin Halvorsen should sum up the error assessments of the autumn before she goes on. The other thing, and I have to say that made me pretty upset, was Bjørklund, who had read the inside of me, and in his wisdom found out that I'm a kind of American claw. I think that's a primitive attempt to take the man instead of the ball. Bjørklund is unable to justify this and thus shows the sad status of SV's foreign policy thinking. I will demand respect for my judgements. I have made up my own opinions, but respect for others' opinions is not good SV policy for the time being, I understand, as expressed by Bjørklund. But I guess you say what you have on your heart. So to the content of the matter itself. I fully agree with Haakon Blankenborg that one of the important things about the President-in-Office month will be that we are given the light to what the Security Council is actually. Note – for those who have spoken about the Security Council – that it is a unanimous belief that the Security Council Presidency will not be an egotrip for Norway. We are there to do a useful job for the Security Council, so that all members feel that we are fulfilling the objectives and prerequisites of the Security Council. There's a lot of things that have to be pushed into this very short month that the March month is. That means that we have to give a careful priority, so that we get a decent job with the problems that come up, not just clocking out and saying that you've taken it up, as it's called, but that we've also been able to make a real effort in that area. I have to say that the agenda as it stands is already very ambitious. It's going to be a lot about Africa, as it should be. It is absolutely possible that Afghanistan will also be on the agenda. There will be meetings about the Middle East routinely, and the purpose of the seminar to be held in New York is to bring up the issues. If the other members of the Security Council think it makes sense that we bring this into a form of a meeting as well, of course we do. But what we want is that the other members, when our month is over, say yes, here it was done a useful job, and not that it ends up with people squeezing their eyes and saying, And then these Northmen, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e280	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e291	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e298	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 2, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party. There will be an opportunity to make explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e310	I have noticed that in my speech, the Council of State was united in the intentions of proposal No. 2, where we ask the Government to submit a plan for the relocation of existing and new government enterprises from Oslo. It's positive, but it's worth noting that the Council of State also said that it might be difficult for time to put this forward for revision, as it says in the proposal from the Central Party. That's why I want to turn this into a transmission proposal. When it comes to the proposal from SV, I noticed that the Council of State was also there positive. That proposal will be supported by the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e319	I have received signals from a broad majority that if there is a clarification of what the proposal means, it may be possible to obtain broad support for the proposal. It concerns the concept of ‘equal pay’. I would then like to make it clear that it is about equal pay for women and men, and not a desire for a system where everyone is going to earn the same amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e324	It sounds reassuring!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e327	With the clarifications that the representative Karin Andersen has now made on this with equal pay, I would recommend the representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e332	Left too!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e337	And the Left, President! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e346	If there are any from the Left, they must report!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e349	Yes, it's quick to forget. So on behalf of the Right... on behalf of the Workers' Party... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e358	There must be limits to cross-political agreement!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e361	We're so used to being the largest party, sir. President! On behalf of the Workers' Party Group, I would also recommend voting in favour of the SV's proposal – with the clarification given by Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e369	There are no more people who feel the need to explain themselves, and we go to voting. Proposal No. 2, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Centre Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal and the introductory part is replaced by ‘Recommendation to the Government’, etc. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2002 Revised National Budget, to submit a plan for the relocation of existing and new state establishments from Oslo.’.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal is amended according to the explanation and clarification given by Karin Andersen and is worded as follows: «The government is asking the Government to ensure the ability of the public sector to recruit and maintain labour through equal pay for women and men and an offensive wage and employer policy.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e393	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Labour and Administration on the modernisation, efficiency and simplification of the public sector be annexed to the Protocol. It has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e406	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The negotiation of the conclusion of a contract under the invitation to tender and the conduct of a two-year trial procedure with a national knowledge base shall be conducted as soon as possible. The President will propose that an alternative vote be taken between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e428	During the debate, Mr Swensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision sends the case back to the Government, which is required to open new negotiations with a view to maintaining the EFTA Convention as a trade agreement without the extensive adaptation to the EEA rules currently proposed. These relate in particular to investments, public acquisitions, the free movement of capital and the free movement of persons.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-31-2.ana.ud1087e480	There is no voting theme in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
