ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e28	The representatives of Ursula Evje and Kenneth Svendsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Åshild Karlstrøm Rundhaug, has taken the seat. The representative of Julie Christiansen has applied for leave to attend the meeting in Brussels on Thursday 18 April following an invitation from the Atlantic Partnership Programme. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Mette Korsrud, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Mette Korsrud is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets for Julie Christiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e65	The President proposes the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting on Wednesday and Thursday – and considers it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e70	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e75	Kjell Engebertsen and Ranveig Frøiland are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Ranveig Frøiland are unanimously elected as presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e103	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and the Council of State Ansgar Gabrielsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e112	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Workers' Party's fraction in the Foreign Affairs Committee today submitted a proposal to ask the Government to set up a People's Fund for the Palestinian refugees, where the state is supposed to contribute a significant amount and people are invited to give their share. We have to turn people's anger over what's happening in the Middle East into something constructive. There can be no peace without creating a future for the Palestinian refugees. The issue has always been the most difficult issue in the negotiations, and if it is to be resolved, the international community must take responsibility. We're facing the largest international action ever if this is to be solved. Norway has to take responsibility to pave the way for such international responsibility, and that is why we are promoting this proposal. It may thus facilitate the return of the parties to the negotiating table. I would like to ask about the Prime Minister's position on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e121	The attitude of the Prime Minister and the Government towards increased efforts for Palestinian refugees is positive. As you know, Norway already allocates quite considerable funds to the state budget for work among and for Palestinian refugees. It's obvious, after what's happened in the last few weeks, that the need has become much bigger. Norway, as we know, has leadership in the so-called donor country group, where we have heavy players inside, such as the EU, the United States, Canada, Japan. As chairmanship, we are now scheduled to be hosting a donor country conference here in Oslo at the end of this month. Then, in my view, it would be quite natural to discuss how we can step up efforts to rebuild the Palestinian territories and not least an effort towards Palestinian refugees. So such a thought that Norway is going to channel some of its funds through a fund, we are going to take up a positive assessment and also want to discuss with our partners in the donor country group. The crucial thing is not the form of this, the crucial thing is that there will be a huge effort on behalf of Palestinian refugees, and I fully agree with the representative of Jagland that the issue of refugees is one of the most central to laying the foundation for a hopefully lasting peace solution in the region. First of all, we must get a truce, get Israel out of the Palestinian territories, the Palestinians to fight terrorism and suicide, and then this must immediately be brought into a political negotiation process, where refugee issues, border issues, housing issues and not least the issues surrounding Jerusalem become the most difficult and decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e126	I thank you for a positive answer. I am aware that Norway already grants a lot of money for the humanitarian work within the refugee camps, and that we have also contributed significantly to the work of building Palestinian authorities and institutions and well-being in Palestine. But this is about what's going to be the future of refugees outside the camps. If we do not get a major international action on this, future negotiations will not succeed. This has been the hardest question. The international community must take responsibility for this, because otherwise it will be difficult for the parties to go back to the negotiating table, and if they come to the negotiating table, it will again be difficult to solve this issue. Norway can go ahead with international communities in order to make an effort when the parties return to the negotiating table, thus finding a solution for the refugees other than to continue living in these camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e133	Of course, I agree that the goal is for the refugees to leave the refugee camps, because there is a very bad situation for many of them, and it has been further exacerbated by what has happened in recent times. I agree that the future of refugees now on a more permanent basis becomes one of the important issues. Norway wants to go ahead and do what the representative Igland called ‘draw with the international communities’, but of course we are totally dependent on the heavy players, such as the United States, the EU, Japan, Canada and others, both those who are in the Giverland Group, and those who are not. Of course, the UN needs to be fully centralized, as they are today in the refugee work. I think it is natural that we are now discussing when the Giverland Group is going to have its meeting in Oslo at the end of this month, because there are several of the key actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e140	There will be follow-up questions – Haakon Blankenburg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e143	I understand the Prime Minister so that he is open to support a proposal for a people's fund for Palestinian refugees with a view to contributing to solving the problems in the Middle East. Of course, we do not expect the Prime Minister to say absolutely yes or no. The majority shall first examine the proposal and then proceed to the Government. But it is important that the Prime Minister is open to the proposal. It is also important that this proposal – if appropriate – is not delayed by other processes, because such a fund can be created independently of other processes, such as: what is also happening in the Givarland Group. There is therefore no reason for such an initiative to be ongoing and to wait for other initiatives and to continue to hold meetings. I also see what the Prime Minister is now saying, as a willingness from the Government to take new initiatives, and also to, for example, take new initiatives. to contribute actively to support the peace coalition between Israel and Palestine, and that the impression that was made last week that the Government is negative to support this coalition is so wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e150	What I think is crucial in terms of the humanitarian situation and the more permanent situation of refugees is that there will be a strong stepping up of efforts for them. Which form this is going to take, I think we should be able to get back to. And if it's going to be a real dimension over this, we also have to have other, heavy players with us. But even though Norway is a small country, we have actually meant a lot in the Middle East also in terms of the humanitarian situation, and I am concerned that we should continue to do so. We also need to have sound control of the money that has to be allocated so that it can go to their intended purpose, whether it be for refugees or for other humanitarian purposes among the Palestinians. The so-called peace coalition, we don't mind. In fact, we also have contact with those who are in it. A few of them on the Palestinian side were in Norway as late as November. But the crucial thing now to stop the acts of violence is to intervene with those who decide the situation on the Israeli and Palestinian sides, and then we must also intervene with Prime Minister Sharon and his government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e160	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e163	On 29 March Israel launched a strong offensive against a range of Palestinian villages. At the same time, these cities were shut down for journalists and others who could have witnessed what happened. The refugee camp in Jenin was subjected to a very brutal military operation that led to a high number of killed and wounded civilians. On the Israeli side, about 200 people were killed, while one on the Palestinian side thinks that up to 800 people were killed. I want to ask the Prime Minister if the Government will bring up an international investigation of these terrible events in Jenin.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e170	The government is absolutely committed to putting all the force into finding out what has happened in the refugee camp in Jenin. The government wants to contribute. What is now the immediate need is to stop the acts of violence from both Israeli and Palestinian sides. Then we must seek to find out as quickly as possible what has happened to assaults, not least what has happened to the refugee camp in Jenin, but also other abuses that must have been done from different sides. But both to get this done and to rebuild a trust and a peace process, we are totally dependent on it now having to enter a truce. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox If we don't, we don't get to do anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e177	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e180	I have a question for the Prime Minister. A few days ago, the head of the Crime Police Central, Arne Huuse, said that we are starting to pay the price of immigration policy that has been in place. In the past, Tromsø’s police chief, Truls Fyhn, has said that Norway is the ideal place for criminal foreigners and potential terrorists. Former police officer in Bergen, Rolf B. Wegner, has stated that drug policy and immigration policy are related. The reaction of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice is not to listen to these experienced police officers, but to put their mouths on them. Today it says in the newspaper: ‘Now the Minister of Justice will contact Police Director Ingelin Killangreen. She will be told to tighten the ropes on the police officers." I would like the Prime Minister to confirm that it is still an obligation and a right for the leaders of the external agencies in Norway to express their views, so that voters are given the basis for which information and views are also given to government and growth on debated issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e194	Of course, they have a right to express themselves, and it is said quite clearly from the Ministry of Justice – I show, among other things. For an interview with State Secretary Holme in the Newspaper – that it is not appropriate to give liberal police tops oral baskets. But I also record that, according to Dagbladet yesterday, Kripos Chief Arne Huuse receives little support from Norwegian police officers for his rather general and unprotected opinions on the relationship between immigration policy and tragic killings. I also refer to a wise editorial in the Evening Post today that points out that it cannot be proved that such killings could have been avoided by another immigration policy. And when a representative from the Progress Party even starts to make signed and other named politicians personally responsible for what has happened, one goes far beyond the line. I had hoped that we would avoid such growth in the debate. But let it be quite clear: the government looks extremely seriously both on this particular case and on the fact that there is considerable crime of violence among immigrants. We're not passive and we're looking at this. We have started and are in the process of launching further measures, including: to allow the police to search for fingerprints in the foreign registry in connection with criminal investigations. An extended access for the police to visit people in public places and in vehicles has already been proposed to the Stortinget. We also propose to extend the criminal framework in order to carry a knife in public places. I think we are wise to address these questions actively, but also to seek to avoid over-exploitation of opinions and proposals whose side-effects may also be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e205	First, let me say that if the immigration and criminal policies of the Advance Party had been conducted, at the moment, based on media information, at least one of the concerned persons would have been in prison and would not have been out and possibly had access to these actions. It is also likely that several of the others would not have been in Norway. Some of the element of the immigration policy of the Progress Party is that many of these simply would not have been allowed into the country. But my question was not about that, but it was about the right and the duty of the leaders of the external agencies to express their opinions. The head of the Justice Committee, Trond Helleland, has expressed his desire for a mouth basket. It is the same in the newspaper’s headline today, that ‘the Minister of Justice will now contact police director Ingelin Killengreen. She will be told to tighten the ropes." I want a general statement from the Prime Minister that both the head of defence, the officers, the superiors, the principals and the others in the external offices should be obliged to express their views on the consequences of the policies of the government and the majority of the population in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e214	As I have said, it is not relevant to give either the house or the other oral basket. I now think the representative Hagen should accept that answer – when it is given by the Prime Minister. Of course, when it comes to commenting on political issues, no one in the outside world has any obligation to do so. There are precautionary measures that apply to issues related to political issues. We do not intend to give them a mouthpiece, but that one discusses this on a general basis with the director of the Police Directorate. Otherwise, I think one should be careful to tell who its policy could have led to what. We know, for example. that most acts of violence are committed by intoxicated persons. A liberal alcohol policy can contribute to this. The party of progress is, moreover, the foremost exponent of such a policy. But I will not stand here accusing Carl I. Hagen or any other named person of being personally responsible for acts of violence. It's going far above the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e223	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e226	I feel that the Prime Minister still does not answer the question from Carl I. Hagen. It's obvious that the Prime Minister won't give the leaders of the outer floors oral basket, but at the same time it turns out that what the Ministry of Justice wants to do is tighten up, give someone a scratch in the paint. And if there's a difference between tightening up and giving mouth organs, it might be very interesting to hear the Prime Minister's explanation of where that difference goes. It can't be that you want to scrutinize information to avoid unpleasant reality descriptions from leaders in the outer floors. It must be so that everyone in our society should be entitled to the same information. Regardless of whether it affects current political debates, whatever political parties may hear the truth, whatever the circumstances, everyone, whether in the public or private sector, should have the right to participate in a public debate on important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e231	Yes, we have said that they have the right to do so, and we do not intend to put the oral basket on them. But of course, there is no obligation for anyone in an external body to comment on controversial political issues, as it could be heard from the representative Hagen. There is also disagreement within the police about the contentious statements made by Kripos Chief Arne Huuse. It came, among other things: as expressed in the daily newspaper yesterday. It is therefore useful that the Department and the Directorate have a dialogue on the borderline between professional opinions that are useful for us politicians to get, and more purely political ones. That's what's in it, neither more nor less. So I answered the questions from both the representative Hagen and the representative Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e239	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e242	The problem of the last day's debate is probably strictly not putting a mouthpiece on anyone. However, the question has triggered a tragic and insane debate, including: The Central Party has proposed an almost impossible and likely international law-enforcement proposal to take citizenship from people, and senior police officers perform statements that do more harm than they do to the fight for integration and against crime. However, there is reason to point out that where immigrants are represented in crime statistics and where they are over-represented, young men in larger cities who have a small labour market approach and who also have a low level of education are involved. There is also reason to note, as the Prime Minister was about, that most violent crimes, 70-80 pst. by them, also committed by ethnic Northmen, is committed in alcohol intoxication. And there is a basis for asking: what will the Prime Minister contribute to putting this on the agenda, and what kind of action does the Government think about doing something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e249	Let me first say that I fully agree with the representative of Storberget that this is a tragic matter. Every killing, whether by someone with foreign or Norwegian origin — and it is, after all, most of the killings committed by people of Norwegian origin — is a tragedy in itself. We're introducing special measures in relation to the immigrant environment, to which I referred. In addition to what I referred to in my previous answer, I can also mention that we want to present in our law an introduction scheme for newly arrived immigrants because the municipalities are a better tool in integration work, and we will further support voluntary organisations working on this. We will also promote a separate action plan for children and young people with a minority background, including: to prevent them from falling outside and entering criminal environments. Then it's an undeniable fact that 70-80 pst. by all acts of violence committed by intoxicated persons. And it's no coincidence that there's a lot of violence in the streets of Oslo where the tipping points are tightest, namely the area around Rosenkrantz Gate. The undersigned has tried several times to put this on the agenda and encourage a more restrictive alcohol policy, and I would like to do so further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e258	SV shares the view that the worst thing is not that anyone speaks about a theme. The problem with the Kripos Chief's statements is that they seem so incredibly unqualified both in relation to the views of the underlying agencies on this and in relation to the fact that one is not familiar with the government's policy. I just want to mention an example, which is also referred to in today's Evening Post, where reference is made to the search option that the police have now received in terms of the use of a knife. It turns out that of 27 police districts, only two, Oslo and Tromsø, have taken advantage of this opportunity. And once you've used it, it's been very successful. You've found a lot of weapons, and you've managed to clear out that tool that could have made maybe little fights end up in major tragedies. What will the Prime Minister do to get the police to know and use the means they have actually received?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e267	I agree that if it can be shown that the police are not using the tools they have now actually received, we need to increase information on this. As I said in a previous answer, we will now give the police access to search for fingerprints in the foreign registry in connection with criminal investigations. It has already been proposed that the Storting should have extended access to visit people in public places and in vehicles in order to detect weapons. The government also proposes to extend the criminal framework to carry a knife in public places and to attack a knife during fighting. I believe we know this has provided, and will provide us, some tools to combat the crime of violence. With regard to the killing situation in Norway, it was the case last year that of 38 people who were killed, there were ten with a foreign background, i.e. about 10 with a foreign background. one quarter of foreign origin. So three-quarters was the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e276	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e279	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. NorWatch and Dagbladet have revealed that Norwegian oil crowns have been invested in bulk bomb production. This is the same as SV at an earlier point in time pointed out, but that turned out to be the wrong company. It has now been demonstrated that General Dynamics, an American company, produces key components for class bombs — the same class bombs that are scattered in Afghanistan and that Norwegian miners are now stationed in Afghanistan to help eliminate them. So the Storting has ordered the Government to work for an international ban on class bombs – a directive I suppose the Government will follow loyally. I would assume that most people would think it is shameful that Norwegian oil money is invested in a company that produces class bombs. My challenge to the Prime Minister is this: What will the Prime Minister do to prevent this type of investment from hitting companies whose production is contrary to what is official Norwegian foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e288	The Co-operation Board, after its accession, provided for the establishment of a Council on International Law which is advisory to the Ministry of Finance on such matters. This advice was made, among others: asked to assess a specific company in Singapore in relation to our obligations under international law. One found that this company had investments via the Petroleum Fund which could violate the Antipersonnel/Landmines Convention to which Norway is a party, and the Ministry of Finance therefore excludes this company from the Petroleum Fund’s investment portfolio. Furthermore, we have asked the Council to consider whether we can extend the so-called extractive mechanism to conventions on human rights, so that if investment from the Petroleum Fund comes to companies acting in a way that is contrary to human rights, we will be able to obtain an opportunity to withdraw. This is now under work. With regard to the specific matter now referred to by the representative, Djupedal, we have first asked the Bank of Norway to find out the facts. As Djupedal quite correctly said, a case was brought up here in Stortinget earlier that turned out to be the wrong company. In order to be on the safe side, we will now examine the actual situation first. And if the actual circumstances are as things point out, we will ask for an opinion from the Swedish Council on whether, under the current regulations of the Petroleum Fund, that is the basis for withdrawing or not. The problem with class bombs is that we do not yet have an international convention that prohibits such production, but I can assure you that Norway is working for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e299	I am pleased with the answer given by Prime Minister Bondevik, who in his basic tone is positive. The example of landmines to which the Prime Minister referred also revealed that this company Singapore Technologies Engineering invested in landmines. What this shows is the great weakness of the investment profile of the oil fund. You invest first, and then you have a council of international law that can afterwards see whether investment is in conflict with official Norwegian foreign policy or conventions Norway is bound by. This is what still creates embarrassing revelations, for example. that the oil fund has invested heavily in Burma, a country in which the Prime Minister himself has a great personal commitment. We're in more than ten, maybe up to as many as 20 companies, with investments of up to NOK 10-15 billion. This is not forbidden either, but we have warned private investors from Norway against going into Burma, while government can do so. This is what creates problems for the oil fund. That is why my last challenge to the Prime Minister will be: will it not be wise to create a regulation that prevents that kind of investment in advance, and not a regulation like what we have today, that one can withdraw, in the worst case, afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e306	I agree that it would have been desirable to have a regulatory framework that was operational, to prevent such investments before they had to happen, and not just an extraction mechanism that can take us out after they have happened. We worked very intensively on this under my previous government in the light of the objective now expressed by the representative, Mr Djupedal. It turned out to be extremely difficult in practice because the investment of the Petroleum Fund, which is often known to go through other funds and takes the road to companies and subsidiaries. A code that prevents this in advance, before it comes to the final company where the investment is made, is in practice extremely difficult to deal with. I have recorded the debate that some private funds believe to have provided legislation where this is manageable, so I am willing to review it again. But the track we are now going along for the time being, which has connections in Stortinget, is possibly expanding the basis for extraction mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e313	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad. The President would also like to recall that follow-up questions should be relevant to the main issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e319	Yes, it shall have the follow-up question. These are difficult assessments of the oil fund. But the example of Burma and class bombs is so crucial in relation to the Norwegian visible and very strong profile we have had in these areas, and it will be difficult when one action helps to undermine the other. Class bombs are the closest thing you get to land mines. Both the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV led a successful struggle in the 1990s to persuade the then workers' party government to impose a ban on landmines. Then a lot of arguments were produced from the Workers' Party that this was formalistic and difficult to implement, and that it was in every way difficult to take a clear position on, so it was not easy. That's not the question either. But I hope we can trust not only that the Prime Minister will leave this to an advisory body, but that there is also the necessary will of the Christian People's Party and the Prime Minister to cut through...... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e328	Yes, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are finally taking a stand, not the Council. They give us advice. In the case of class bombs, it is true that some of them, namely the type where explosives remain that can be triggered later, can come closest to land mines. But then there's also another type of class bomb where there's a series of immediate explosions, and it's a type that doesn't look like landmines. We are now working on this in the relevant bodies in Geneva with a view to a convention on the prohibition of the type of class bombs that are land-like. Otherwise, I think that the representative Arnstad also remembers from the government we put together in, that getting practical legislation to prevent such investments in advance is extremely difficult. It strove with our government. We made a couple of suggestions, and one of them was rejected by Stortinget. But I'm willing to look at this completely again, because I have the exact same commitment as the representatives Arnstad and Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e337	Tore Nordtun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e340	The Labour Party Government proposed an extractive mechanism and agreed to it – to withdraw investments that were contrary to international conventions and agreements. Now I understand that the Prime Minister will go further with this extraction mechanism. But isn't it that it's important to do a pre-work, so you're in the forefront? The Prime Minister went quite high on the track for a few years ago and said that it was easy to get such a code in place. When will the new legislation for a more active extraction mechanism, which the Prime Minister now announces, come in what form? For the most part, we need to use the precautionary principle here, so that we do not always fall behind, that each company is taken up in the Grand Duchy afterwards, but that we have a preventive code.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e349	As the representative Nordtun just said, it was the workers' party government, Nordtun's own party government, that came to the conclusion that one had to deal with this through an extraction mechanism. And some conventions, including: The anti-personnel mines convention, and as far as I know the one concerning chemical and biological weapons, is subject to this mechanism. What our government has now been working on is whether or not it can extend this to human rights conventions. It was investigated by this Council of International Law. They have now provided some material to this effect, and treatment is to be provided in the Ministry of Finance and in the Government. The material suggests that there are also some difficult issues out there and going, but we have a very clear intention of trying to get there. I cannot give the date for the Government to complete this work, but of course we will do it as quickly as possible and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e356	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e359	I find it positive that the government now seems to focus somewhat more strongly on the ethical aspects of the management of the oil fund. The online newspaper quoted on 12 April a representative of the Government who stated that the oil fund should manage its investments in a way that does not violate our obligations in relation to human rights. In my opinion, this must mean that we should not invest in companies that operate, for example. child labour, the production of non-conventional weapons, which violate fundamental labour rights and the like. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is the Prime Minister behind these statements, and does this mean that the Government will carry out a full review of our existing oil fund investments with a view to withdrawing from the companies that are in conflict with these commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e368	As I said, the Government has the clear intention that what is affected by international human rights conventions – as such examples were now mentioned – we want, if it is possible to get it into practice, to have an extraction mechanism for. There are some practical questions that need to be clarified: Will this go to the company? Or, should it go to a country that violates such human rights? Now, the Petroleum Fund is also so that we already have a country list that we're following, just to avoid some of these problems, but just as fully they occur from time to time. We have just received material from the Swedish Law Council and are about to start assessing it. The intention is the same as the last question was after. But we also need to find manageable rules for this that make those who manage the Petroleum Fund know what they have to stick to, and that there won't be too much discretion on the part of the administrators.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e375	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e378	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The government has announced that it wants to increase support for private primary schools and make it easier to start up such schools. At the same time, we have recently received examples from the media that government primary schools in Oslo and elsewhere would have received more money in State aid if they had operated under the private school law instead of continuing as municipal schools. Very many of the basic public schools in, for example: Oslo has less to route by per. students than the four largest private schools in this city. This is before the Government has increased the grants to private schools. In addition, we experience that there are many places, such as: in Oslo, reduces the appropriations allocated to municipal primary schools. I believe that the Prime Minister and the Government are right, in a situation where the municipal school appropriations are cut, among other things. in Oslo, to increase support for private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e387	The image may not be as clear as the representative of Stoltenberg. He forgets in his calculations that private schools do not receive support for the construction of school buildings. The cost of renting is not included in the subsidy base either. This is what makes private schools also in Oslo see themselves having to make some parental payment for the budget to go on, which one does not do in public schools. The Private School Act, on which the Workers' Party has also participated, is such that support for the operation of a private school — which is not all the expenditure, but only the operating expenditure — is based on an average of public school expenditure across the country. So private schools get covered 85 pst. of these average costs. 15 pst. they must stand for themselves through parental or collected funds. If you want to meet exactly in a private school in a municipality in relation to a public school in the same municipality, you have to calculate the average cost of a public school in a municipality and then give 85 pst. of it in operating aid for a private school in the same municipality. It's going to be a pretty complicated system, and nobody's suggested it before – either the Workers' Party. In fact, the parents of students at private schools have to pay something, including: because they do not receive money for capital expenditure and for construction and renting. We think it's reasonable that this excess is being reduced somewhat, so that all the social groups of the people can go to such schools. It shouldn't just be for the rich. That is why we have proposed to increase the aid from 85 pst. to 90 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e399	I thank you for the answer, but I feel that the Prime Minister does not grasp what is the main point. Here in the city and in many other municipalities it is now cut into the appropriations for the municipal schools. In Oslo, for example. So 75 out of a total of 122 municipal primary schools have less to go with this year than last year, thanks to the cooperation here in the city between the Christian People's Party and the Right. At the same time, it is warned that instead of securing more money for municipal primary schools, the grant will increase to private primary schools. This is done in a city where we have examples that private schools have significantly better finances, fewer students per year. teachers, better PC coverage and better premises than primary municipal schools. Then we simply believe that the government's priority is wrong. Instead of upgrading the common primary school to a good school for everyone, you choose to spend more money on a private school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e406	If there's someone who doesn't get the point, I think the representative Stoltenberg might be in that category too, because he made it so that it would be economically more lucrative to go to a private school in Oslo than to the public. So that's wrong. Private schools do not receive support for the construction of school buildings, for rent or for capital expenditure. So they get less than the public schools in Oslo do. That's why the students have to pay to go there. I can't believe that it's such a very good social-democratic policy to demand high parental pay from those who choose a private school. The representative Stoltenberg himself has a background in a good private school. The social democrats in Sweden and Denmark are much more generous in this area. In Sweden, you actually get the same support whether you go to private or public school. I think it must be good both Christian-democratic and social-democratic policies that children from all social groups of the people, including those who don't have that much money, can go there. As far as Oslo's priorities are concerned, I think you can take that debate in Oslo. There are different priorities in different municipalities – also in workers’ party boards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e415	Five pieces have been drawn for follow-up questions. The President will allow three and will distribute them to three different parties. The first to follow-up question is Karita Bekkelem Orheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e418	It may seem that the government's unilateral objectives in school policy are a large-scale privatisation, this in order to escape its own promises. But the Prime Minister's strong government partner, Right, said in the election campaign last year that their goal was at 12 p.m. of the country's students were going to go to private schools, and that private schools were going to get 100 pst. the recovery of its expenditure. Is this a long-term goal shared by the Prime Minister? And does the Christian People's Party mean that we no longer need the common meeting place that the public school has been for students with different backgrounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e425	Firstly, a large-scale privatisation of Norwegian schools is not relevant – and I do not think that will happen either. As regards the number of students attending private schools in Norway, it is actually small, among other things. in comparison with neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark, which have been socially democratically overthrown for many years. Sweden, under Göran Persson's Social Democratic Government, has gone much further than we intend to do when it comes to non-discrimination between private and public schools, so I think in case it's a settlement that needs to be taken between the social democrats in the Nordic region. As I've already indicated, it's not our plan to give 100 pst. support for private schools compared to public schools, but we want to increase it somewhat so that even children from families who do not have such good advice are allowed to choose such an alternative if they so wish. It is the government's policy, and we will explain this in more detail when we now propose amendments to the current law. Our long-term goal is not to build up public schools at all. We need it as a meeting place for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e434	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e437	State Secretary Bergesen of the Ministry of Education has stated to several newspapers that the amendment of the Private School Act could be the rescue for many schools, i.e. the change opening to private schools, regardless of life views or alternative pedagogics. The view that Bergesen advocates is difficult to interpret in a way other than that the government does not see it as its task to maintain the public school in small towns in the country. The consequence of this line is that running schools in small places will become voluntary forces on the ground. So my question to the Prime Minister is, does he agree with Secretary of State Bergesen that changes to the private school law can be the salvation of many schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e446	While the government sees it as an important task to maintain a decentralised school pattern and as far as possible branch schools, as the representative Haga well knows, it is, of course, the individual municipality and local government that adopt the school structure in their municipality. It shall not be adopted in the Ministry of Education. But we are looking through the income system to introduce criteria that can counteract centralisation in this area as well. So this is the municipal government that decides. What we have registered in some municipalities is that parents have taken the event on their own and are seeking to establish or pursue a school in their area. In such cases, the State Secretary Bergesen may have stated correctly, namely that a law on free schooling, which we will propose, can be the rescue. But that doesn't mean the government in general wants to build up cross-border schools, and replace them with private ones. This is actually the decision of the local government itself. We want to maintain as many primary schools as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e453	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e456	The main question was probably such that it should have been asked by a school politician to the school office in Oslo, but there are also nationwide problems raised in this question and in the answers given by the prime minister. So the Prime Minister clearly says that in Sweden there has been an increase in full equality between public and private schools, so my first question is: why does the Bondevik government not want to do the same, have full equality between public and private schools so that there is equal treatment for all parents? Secondly, the Government has announced that it will propose that the financing of kindergartens should be changed to be financed by the State, with a direct grant from the State to the individual nursery, whether public or private. Why can't the government expect to do the same when it comes to funding the school? It would just solve these problems by removing the authority of the local government, which the prime minister has just used to explain little positive aspects of school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e465	When we do not propose full equal treatment in support of private and public schools, it is because, in our opinion, the private should be a complement to the public. And then there should be a real need behind it. That a certain self-help is then required by the volunteers who want to go to a private school, and by those who send their children there, I think for my part a healthy principle. It's not like the government always has to pay everything. And that one expresses an commitment, and that here there is a need for an alternative school also through a certain self-esteem, I think that for my part is reasonable. But the demand for self-employment should not be so high that it becomes a social class distinction. This is why the Government is prepared to increase support for schools in health, private schools. As far as state funding of the school system is concerned, in my view, such a model would further undermine local self-government. I think it is right that the municipalities manage this through framework grants from the state. What we have said about kindergartens is that there should be a government grant that ensures non-discrimination between private and public.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e475	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e478	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has welcomed the setting up of a district commission, and that is good. This means that we can have a broad and ongoing debate on rural policy objectives, which is needed in the Norwegian public space and in the political environment. But it must not be that a Commission becomes a sleep cushion for what appears to be the challenge of district policy long before such a Commission comes into operation. That is why I want to address three challenges with the Government immediately, because there are challenges that one here and now faces in district policy. At the cuts in SND in the fall, the Minister of Industry said that this was a fundamental choice in which targeted industrial policy instruments would be replaced by general tax reliefs. Does the Prime Minister share that view, and will it be followed up in the big news about the use of instruments in industrial policy? Agriculture is in a very difficult income situation. This applies in particular to rural agriculture. What will the Government contribute to raising agriculture? And what will the Government do to ensure the future prospects of coastal fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e487	I think it is good that the Centre Party now adopts a positive attitude towards a possible district commission, because I have the impression that the first reaction of the Centre Party was a little more hesitant in relation to that question. Of course, it is important to maintain some instruments in district policy, but I think it is now so important to try to think again, because we see that the existing regional policy instruments are not sufficient to slow down and possibly reverse the flow of relocation in the long term. I can assure the representative Arnstad that such a possible commission will not become a sleeping cushion, and I also said this very clearly about it in my reply to the representative Ryan that it should not be. On the contrary, we must always pursue an active district policy. With regard to the relationship between general instruments and more targeted instruments in district policy, the Minister of Industry has not stated that it is either – or, of course, it is needed for both. The debate on the last harvest was particularly linked to two instruments: the volume of funding through SND and local food funds. It is also part of the overall picture that we have made more proposals that are positive for districts, namely reducing air transport costs through the removal of air passenger charges, which is important for many districts, and improving tax and tax conditions for businesses, which are also largely located in districts. As far as agriculture is concerned, the representative Arnstad knows that we are facing a new agricultural settlement. Of course, it would be totally wrong for me now to present the country's offer even before we have received the demands of the farmers' organisations, but we are based on the Sem statement, which says that we want income development in agriculture in line with other groups in society. It will lie at the bottom, and then both tax measures, transfers and the price mechanism will be the instruments involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e496	First of all, I think it is nice to be able to correct the totally wrong impression that the Prime Minister has got from the Central Party's position on this matter. Of course, we are in favour of a district commission. All that can contribute to the debate on regional policy in this House and elsewhere is positive. But it must not be a lightning conductor for conditions in which one has to take a decision immediately. From what the Prime Minister says, we are hoped that this means that one should not continue to cut down on district policy instruments to cover tax relief. If one is serious about the need for income development in line with others, it means that there must be an economic uplift for agriculture in addition to the tax relief already promised by the Government. As far as fisheries policy is concerned, I also think it is important that the Prime Minister here takes a position on the structural signals that have come from the Minister for Fisheries and provides a clear guarantee in relation to the future position of the coastal fleet. It's under threat today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e503	No, as I have already said, the district commission is not going to be sleeping cushions or any lightning divers. A continuous regional policy work shall be carried out. But I think it's also important for the Center Party to take inwards more than now that maintaining a scattered settlement and taking care of the main structure of the housing pattern requires both general and specific targeted district policy instruments. It is not enough just to continue in old wheel tracks when they do not always prove to have the desired effect. As far as agriculture is concerned, as I said, we are prepared to follow up what we have said in the Sem Declaration. Of course, it requires a lift. This applies to the use of both fiscal instruments, transfers and, where appropriate, the price mechanism. As far as the coastal fleet is concerned, it is the government's clear view that we should have a varied fleet structure and a good balance between the coastal fleet and the sea fishing fleet. These are always discussions about regardless of government, but the government's goal is balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e512	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e515	It seems that the Prime Minister has already forgotten that the previous government he led, in very many environments, including in professional environments, got a reputation for being one of the governments that had run the most innovative in relation to district policy measures for a long time. That doesn't mean, of course, that there can't be any more new thinking, but it's all the more worrying that this government is building down schemes that we already have and that we know work well. My follow-up question is the answer that the Prime Minister now gave to Marit Arnstad about the future of the coastal fleet. I share that view that it is important to have a strong coastal fleet, and it is important to have a widespread ownership of the fishing industry. Kjell Inge Røkke has offered to purchase a significant holding in the Lofoten Trälerageri. He already controls a large proportion of the total whitefish resources. My follow-up question to the Prime Minister will be: Does the Prime Minister see it as desirable, in the light of the answer he has just given to Marit Arnstad, that we will have an additional owner concentration in the Norwegian trawler fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e522	First of all, I fully agree that the government of Enoch and the undersigned was in, pursued a lot of good district policy and also introduced some new measures, and in this way gained new grounding. But as Enoxsen himself said, it is still a potential for innovation, and I intend to continue in the government that I am now running. I would also like to maintain that a balance between the coastal fleet and the sea fishing fleet is important. With regard to the specific matter that the representative of Enoxsen now raised, I assume that it concerns Norway Seafoods" permission to acquire shareholding in AS Hammerfest Industrial Fishing. There the company was given a total quota factor for cod trawling estimated at 9,61. In other words, that factor in cod trawling is already slightly greater than that which, as a general rule, was to be accepted according to current guidelines. [[The President clubs.]] Any request... President, I can't move forward, but I share the main point of view of the representative, Enoxsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e529	Inge Ryan - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e532	Once again, I would like to commend the Prime Minister for taking district policy seriously and supporting SV's proposal on district commission. We are very happy about that, and we are happy to get started with the work. But I would like to ask a question related to a matter that concerns me strongly now when we are just in front of the beginning of the agricultural settlement. Many young people count on buttons if they want to take over farms. Like the fishing industry, agriculture is one of the most important carriers we have in Norway. I therefore believe that proper efforts should be made to facilitate better opportunities for young people to take over farm use, both in terms of holidays and leisure time and not least in terms of income. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore as follows: Does the Prime Minister share the view of SV that recruiting young people for agriculture should be a priority task in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e539	Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, although this question is far from the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e543	Yes, I share that view. I have even met many young farmers who stand on the threshold to decide whether to continue and take over the use after their parents, with the investments it often requires, or whether to choose another way. I know that the Minister of Agriculture is also particularly concerned about this, and he is concerned about giving them arm strokes and opportunities for a size of their use, which means that as many as possible of the young people who are now going to decide whether to take over the farm or not, feel that it is worth the investment and that there is going to be a profitability in the operation. I think, as Ryan's representative says, that this is very important, and we need to keep this in mind in the forthcoming agricultural settlement. And so, since I couldn't complete to Mr. Enoxen, but it is, after all, within the area of district policy, I would say that, in the case of Norway Seafoods, any request for further purchase at Lofoten Trölergerageri means that the owner's concentration in the cod trawl fleet will be further increased, far above the limit set as a general rule in the current instructions. There is something that the Ministry of Fisheries will pay attention to when it will deal with this matter. I can't run the treatment over the Great Council's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e550	Then it became black on it, too, overtime. We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e555	It is said that unemployment is the root of everything bad, so I have a question for the Minister of Industry. Over the last few years, several of our neighbouring countries have introduced different tax-free pay arrangements for their seafarers. This has worsened the competition situation for Norwegian seafarers. In the opposition, both the Christian People's Party and – not least – the Right were very active in securing Norwegian seafarers' competitive conditions. The first thing these parties did when they entered the government offices was to withdraw the proposal on the net pay arrangements for Norwegian seafarers on passenger ferries on international voyages. On June 29, last year, the leader of the Right, Jan Petersen, wrote a letter to the Norwegian Maritime Association describing the developments that have been taking place, and he goes on to say: «Rights believe Norwegian seafarers must have similar framework conditions.» Now Right has all the possibilities to follow up this promise. My question is, what time will it be?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e564	First, I would like to say that I agree with the head of the Business Committee that unemployment is the root of all evil, and as a general starting point, of course, it will also apply to the Minister of Industry and the Head of the Committee. As far as maritime policy is concerned, it was laid down in the Stortinge during the budget procedure of the autumn in respect of reimbursement arrangements, shipping taxes and the special net pay system. I have invited the parties both on the employee and on the employer side to a dialogue throughout the year to see if there are things that should be adjusted in the framework of the 2003 budget proposal. I have also had a conversation with the Swedish government council responsible for the special issue of the net pay scheme, in which case companies in the Nordic region point to their neighbouring countries in relation to the arrangements being put in place. It's no secret that the two ferry companies Color Line and Fjord Line got the special scheme last fall after the alleged threats of deflagration etc. This means that there is Nordic competition in the tax field for this profession. I think it is important that we have a stable framework for all industries, and not least for the industry we are talking about here, the shipping sector. We know that of the 25 000 seafarers that we have on Norwegian ships, that's about. 7 000 Norwegian. I think it's important that we put up a policy that means that we can continue a system where we have a significant number of Norwegian seafarers. Because we know that these are important in the total maritime cluster of 70,000 employees, very often in District Norway. I take that into account in the treatment we now have, which I aim to present the result of in the budget proposal in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e573	With the background of this case's history, I thought it was a little surprising that someone now needs to ask for the correction of what is the course today. A year ago, the Right simply knew very well what kind of action was needed, and put forward proposals here in the Chamber. The only concrete proposal that has come so far is the proposal to exacerbate the conditions imposed by the previous government. Previously, the Right has said very positively about the net pay arrangement and that kind of thing. I would have believed that this was one of the most important things for a Right-State Council, with the background that Right has here, and that there was here a would-flag the party's position and actually followed up the promises that one has made before. But based on the answer I get now, I realize that here has a very good time, and there's no way that the concrete suggestions that Right itself has made will now be made when Right has a position to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e580	First of all, I would like to thank the head of the Business Committee for his description of the proud history of the Right in this area. Secondly, to the extent that nothing should be promoted in the revised national budget relating to the framework conditions for the maritime sector, it would actually be a historic event. For it is such that this industry has been subject to at least two adjustments per. years, both in the ordinary budget and in the revised national budget, and there has been a lot of forward and backward policy. I have said that I will present a comprehensive review of the framework conditions for this industry in the 2003 budget. We are in that process in relation to the parties to this, and it will also be natural to have some dialogue with our Nordic neighbours related to this. But, as I said, the overall political objective is to preserve Norwegian seafarers. To what extent it will be, time will show, but it is important for the entire maritime cluster. That's what I'm putting forward in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e589	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e592	The treatment of Norwegian seafarers by the right and the other government parties is an example of a breach of promises. It's an example that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party mean something else in position than they meant in opposition. When they were in opposition, they made strict and strong demands for the same framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping companies as for the other Nordics. What they did when they got in position was to exacerbate the proposal for improvement that the Labour Party government made. On the question of when to correct it, do something new for shipping companies and Norwegian seafarers, the Council of State says that one has to think about and assess and ‘look at’ it. It's a very unclear answer to what you stood for just a few months ago, and that means that the deterioration that you got a majority last autumn is obviously going to last for a while. Then my question about the Council of State is proud of the change in policy that has now been implemented for Norwegian seafarers and maritime industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e597	I don't need to express what feelings I have attached to the different positions – whether it's pride or other things are relatively uninteresting. With regard to what the representative describes as ‘a breach of promise’, I find it difficult to understand that it is a breach of promise to say that we should have a complete review of this, which also involves contact with our Nordic neighbours in relation to the regime we are applying. It is of so much interest that this comes from the representative of Stoltenberg, who has taken part in most of the labor party governments in the 1990s, and to the extent that one should sum up proposals from the governments he has participated in, and what are improvements and deteriorations in this area, I think that if one were to put them in the right and left jacket pocket, you would actually have problems with the balance even on the spokesperson of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e602	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e608	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 2, from Mr Haga's representative to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Defence who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Defence has left. Questions 3 and 4 from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Torbjørn Andersen, respectively, of the Minister of Finance, must be postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from Mr Karl-Anton Swensen's representative to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Odd Roger Enoxen to the Minister for Fisheries, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, by Mr Inge Ryan to the Minister of Labour and Administration, is proposed at the request of the Council of State, moved and answered in response to question 19, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 15, from the representative Morten Lund to the Minister for Transport, is proposed at the request of the Council of State, moved and answered for question 1. Questions 17 and 18, from the representatives Per Roar Bredvold and Jan Simonsen respectively to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 19, from Knut Storberget's representative to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 20, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for the Environment, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e639	This question, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e642	‘The National House of Nablus and the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics are both examples of Norwegian-based infrastructure on Palestinian soil that has been destroyed by Israeli attacks in the last few months. The Land Organisation and the Central Statistical Office of Norway have protested and asked for explanations by their top leaders. What action has Norway taken to figure out what has happened, and in what way has a protest and condemn these actions against Israel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e649	The government is very serious about recent Israeli actions in the Palestinian region and is shocked by the social and humanitarian consequences of the ongoing crisis. In addition to the enormous human suffering, it is very regrettable that the actions also lead to extensive damage to infrastructure in the Palestinian region. The destruction of Palestinian infrastructure weakens the foundations of economic and social development, reduces the capacity of the Palestinian authorities to combat terrorism and increases the hatred of Israel in the Palestinian population. It is very difficult to get an overview of the projects that have been damaged as a result of the last Israeli military offensive in the Palestinian Territory, as well as the extent of the damage. Unfortunately, several Norwegian-supported projects have been affected in previous actions. We have taken up damage and damage to Norwegian-supported projects from the Norwegian side with the Israeli authorities and have deplored them. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has addressed the destructions with Prime Minister Sharon, Foreign Minister Peres and other Israeli leaders. The Prime Minister has specifically addressed the action against the Palestinian Central Statistical Office with Prime Minister Sharon. Sharon promised in December to investigate further the action against the Palestinian Central Statistical Agency. As no response to the request was received, the Norwegian side has repeatedly requested an explanation. Unfortunately, we have not yet received any response from the Israeli side. The Norwegian representatives in the area are now seeking to provide information on the consequences of recent Israeli military actions. This will also include information on damage to Norwegian-supported development projects. As military operations are still ongoing in the area, this is a difficult task, which will take some time. The government is very careful about the rest of the situation in the region and is in constant contact with both the parties to the conflict and other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e667	I thank you for your answer. It may seem a little small to ask how Norwegian funds have been deployed to support and build an infrastructure in the Palestinian self-government areas, but at the same time it is important to react to as extensive infrastructure degradation as is now taking place in Palestine. Nothing, of course, comes up against the civil suffering, but sometimes it may be nice to ask for something concrete and ask for concrete answers in connection with the destruction of infrastructure, which the Norwegian State has been helping to build up. I would like to ask the Council of State if the Council of State sees the enormous need that the Palestinian people have to take note of the war crimes that are now being perpetrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e672	In my opinion, the government has done exactly what Bjørn Jacobsen is concerned about, namely asked for concrete answers in connection with concrete destruction. We are now working to get an overview of the events of the past few weeks to see what concrete projects this could involve. From the Norwegian side, we have invested less in infrastructure than many other donors. This means that the Norwegian aid has not been so exposed, but we expect that in the case of Norwegian-supported projects, there has been damage or damage at least in the order of 15 million. kr. Of course, with regard to the need to focus on the humanitarian crisis and the situation in the conflict area in the Palestinian self-government areas, the Government also sees this. There is a need for focus and, not least, the need to ensure compliance with international humanitarian law, which Norway has also been committed to maintaining in the context of not least the Red Cross and access to several of the areas in which Israel has carried out military actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e679	I thank you for your answer. Sometimes things have to be put in place in relation to right and wrong, and we know that Israel has been occupying Gaza and the West Bank illegally for over 30 years. But at the same time, behind that reality, we know that there are different opinions in the Israeli opinion. Does the Council of State see that it can also have a positive effect in Israeli opinion that Norway protests against the abuses committed on the West Bank and in Gaza by the Israeli army?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e684	I think it's difficult in today's situation to have an overview of the effect that different attitudes and different protests will have in Israeli opinion, but at least there's no doubt what the Government is doing. The government has said clearly from the point of view of what we experience as an Israeli attack in the Palestinian region. However, I would like to stress that our role now is also to try to remedy the humanitarian crisis. And for Jacobsen's briefing, there will be a major international conference of donors, the AHLC Conference, in Oslo 24-25. April, which will focus precisely on the situation of the Palestinians and what needs they now have on the aid side, not least in order to remedy the very critical situation of the Palestinian people now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e691	So we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e698	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Parts of the county road network in the South Trøndelag are in such a poor condition that the telecommunications solution causes full stoppages in traffic. This is a result of too little money for repairs and maintenance over a long period of time. The Road Manager points out that more money is needed in the current year to improve the situation next year. People who are hit don't care about who is 'indebted', but see that there is no money with anyone other than the state. Will the Council of State contribute to the granting of more to the county roads this year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e707	County roads are part of the framework grant to county municipalities. It is the responsibility of the county councils to grant funds for the operation and maintenance of the county road network by undertaking the necessary priorities within their own budget. The former Item 60 of the Ministry of Transport’s budget, Grants for county road purposes, has since 2001 been included in the Framework grant. There are then no earmarked funds for county roads above the Ministry of Transport's budget. When the Storting has agreed that earmarked funds for county roads are transferred to the income system, together with other earmarked funds in the state budget, it shows that the Storing is committed to local responsibility in key areas of society. It's a principle view I know the Center Party shares. In 2001, South-Trundellag spent 104 million. kr for the operation and maintenance of county roads, amounting to 7,6 pst. of what the whole country uses in this area. In comparison, South-Trundellag has 1,752 km of road, which represents 6,4 pst. of the country as a whole. If South-Trandelag believes that the county road network has a poor standard in relation to the country, it is possible for the county to give higher priority to the county roads in relation to the annual budgets. The state road system is currently undergoing extensive reorganization. At the same time, competitive outsourcing of the Road Service’s production tasks is being prepared. The aim of both of these reforms is to release resources for the investment, operation and maintenance of our roads. This will also benefit the county road network. I would also like to mention that the Government aims to present to Stortinget a fundamental review of the two-way network.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e720	I thank you for your answer. I had hoped that it was said that there would be more money, or at least that the council said that she cared that the roads were bad, that people were angry and confused because the school bus didn't show up, that the post office didn't show up, and that even the doctor and the ambulance were stopped. People who are hit by this say that there are worse roads now than before the war, and it's clear that it's a scandal. It's totally unacceptable. Those affected also said that they would rather think that some of the motorways were waiting. I've heard that a mile of highway costs 20 million. kr to build, and it is possible to repair 10 miles of county road to a good standard for such a sum. So it's not so weird if people think like that. I would like to hear from the State Council if the Department has an overview of what it costs to get the county roads up to a good enough standard, because there is no doubt that there are more places than in the South-Tronde Team you have this hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e733	Of course I care about this. Transportation is my area, and transport standards are an important area for me. But at the same time, I would like to stress what I said in my reply initially, that in the case of county roads, it is part of the framework of the county municipality. And in this particular area, we have not stressed the importance of going in with earmarks to a great extent because it is bridging by the autonomy of the county council in prioritising the use of the money. However, I also know that there are county councils facing major economic challenges, and there is a perspective that we need to take into consideration in a further debate related to much more than the county road network. But I can assure you that I am concerned about how the roads in Norway are and function, whether they are state or county.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e740	That's good to hear, because we're talking about a national scandal here. And it'll be worse on these roads next year if you can't make repairs in the current year. The reason why this is not a priority higher in the Süd-Trøndelag is that you have had too little money. Health has had to be given priority over roads in recent years. There has been an economic loophole on the part of the state both in municipalities and county municipalities, and that is an actual situation. The state is a crawler, and everyone sees it, but it's society that loses its weights. We also have other losses, including: the fact that we politicians are being disdained because we don't do anything about such things. There are two ways that this situation of South-Tread layers can now be improved. The first is direct appropriations in the revised national budget. The second is to be informed in the revised national budget that the debt involved in hospital operations for the last year, the deficit you have, is covered by the state. Can the Council of State say whether it is likely that any of this will happen, or will the sea of worms be even deeper next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e751	Just the point that was finally raised here, that health is a priority for the road, and that there is a desire to rehabilitate debt related to the health sector, shows that there is a need to look at these issues in the context of the economy of the county. I would like to point out that this is a broad debate and that is a great debate. We like it, but it's still the way – and I think the Center Party also agrees – that per. Today, the degree of freedom in prioritising the use of money either to county roads or to other areas should be maintained. That's what we have to deal with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e756	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e792	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e798	This question, addressed to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e801	I have the following questions for the Minister: ‘The ESA spokespersons have repeatedly suggested that the Norwegian system of differentiated employer charges is contrary to EU and EEA competition rules. Does the Government have any strategy for how to meet a situation where ESA requires that the employer’s fee is approximately the same in all Norwegian states?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e810	In 1999, ESA was informed by the EFTA Court that the system of differentiated employer charges was State aid and therefore had to be adapted to the EEA Agreement’s State aid rules. Later that year, ESA approved the differentiated employer fee system based on the ESA guidelines on support for additional transport costs in sparsely populated areas, i.e. as an indirect transport aid scheme. The guidelines on transport aid are part of the ESA’s and the Commission’s guidelines describing which regional aid the Commission and ESA will consider to fall under the general exemption from the ban on State aid. The ESA’s prerequisite for approving the Norwegian scheme was inter alia: that parts of certain industries have to pay the maximum charge regardless of the place of residence of the worker. This covered well under 3 pst. the value of the differentiation. The decision of ESA indicated that the Norwegian scheme would be reviewed by the end of 2003. In December 2000, the European Commission refused to approve a Swedish scheme of reduced social contributions for parts of the service sector in northern Sweden. In this case, the Commission used a more emphatic interpretation of the existing guidelines on regional transport aid than had previously been done. The Commission and ESA shall apply the State aid legislation of the EEA Agreement equally. In the light of the Commission’s decision in relation to Sweden, ESA has notified by letter of 29 November 2001 that a decision will be taken on requirements for certain changes to the Norwegian system of differentiated employer charges. The aim is to ensure equal enforcement of EEA legislation. At the same time, however, ESA asked Norway for proposals for amendments to the guidelines on regional aid, in particular the guidelines on transport aid, in the context of the Commission’s review of these guidelines. ESA's announced decision on the Norwegian scheme is not expected at first and it is uncertain how concrete the decision will be in the form. What is relevant to change will depend on the final demands of Norway. The ESA signals are that the Norwegian scheme will be assessed in the light of the Commission’s negative decision to Sweden. It is the Government’s objective that the main features of the current scheme can be maintained even after 2003. Differentiated employer’s fee is one of the most important means we have of maintaining the housing pattern in District Norway. Reference can be made here to a report from an independent expert committee which concluded that a differentiated employer’s fee is a rigorous regional policy instrument that contributes to increasing the demand for labour in the districts. The departments concerned, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, have therefore entered into a dialogue with ESA in this matter, with a view to achieving a solution which will continue as far as possible the main features of the current system of differentiation. However, there is uncertainty about the extent to which ESA changes will require in the current legislation. It is therefore natural that work be done in parallel to assess possible alternatives to a differentiated employer’s fee. Any alternative arrangements should be as secure and cost-effective as possible. They should therefore be generally designed and targeted to maintain housing and employment in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e823	I would first like to thank you for your answer. I share the concerns that lie in this with the ESA Court, and I agree that a differentiated employer's fee is important as a district policy instrument. But I believe that if we do not do anything concrete to prevent ESA running a case against us, the possibility of the matter being pushed forward more quickly. On the other hand, if, through a public debate and concrete action, we make an ESA case less topical, we will in practice be able to avert the accident that would force us to increase the employer’s pay in the districts radically. Is the Government willing to consider such a procedure to prevent an ESA case against us?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e830	I agree that we should generally have open debates in Norway on the design of the legislation. What is the Government's strategy is to influence the common legislation we have within the EEA system, i.e. what is recognised as State aid. One of the things that is a problem for us today is that in the legislation that exists, transport of goods is covered by the transport legislation. We believe that services should also be provided to justify the provision of transport assistance. We are working on this in relation to our dialogue through ESA with other parties in the EEA system. Then it is that we also assess what alternative targeted measures we could have had if we cannot maintain a well and accurately differentiated employer-fees system. I am not so sure that a strong debate in Norway is the main instrument. The main instrument is to try to get on the inside of the regulatory design of the State aid system within the EEA. I would like to remind you that there are major changes in the EU at the moment, including: enlargement to the east will create a more dynamic debate on these issues as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e837	I thank you for your answer. We have a part of the same issue in Sweden with regard to a differentiated employer's fee. Now I'm not quite familiar with how evolution goes there. If you were to switch to a pure transport aid scheme, if you were not allowed to continue with a differentiated employer’s fee, there would not be sufficient compensation for any differentiated employer’s fee. After all, it must be felt like a direct fatigue tactic to negotiate with ESA every fiscal year with regard to the employer’s fee in order to obtain its approval. On the part of the Coastal Party, we believe that it would be much better to develop an alternative Norwegian strategy that will resolve the conflict with ESA in the long term. Then my question is: is the Government willing on this basis to consider a gradual reduction in the employer's fee? Have you considered that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e846	The starting point for the Government is that the system we have with differentiated employer fees is approved in 2003. Then we get the revision in 2004. At the same time, what is known in EU languages as the ‘midterm review’ of the State aid system in general in the EU, i.e. the rules underpinning the transport aid schemes, which also apply to the legislation we have to deal with. On a one-sided basis, eliminating the differentiated employer fee without external pressure would, in my opinion, not be right, because we believe that this is the most targeted instrument. But we have a parallel investigation going on, where, among other things, an expert selection has gone through alternatives. It has been pointed out that it is possible to have differentiated VAT, it is possible to have more geographically differentiated tax rules in Norway, which could give some of the same. It is further away from State aid law. This will need to be clarified in relation to the EU’s demand to address this as a State aid issue. But in many ways we keep all the possibilities open in that work, because what we really want is to maintain the differentiated employer's fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e857	I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In several media redundancies, it has recently been shown that criminals who should have been expelled from the country are still here because police officials believe that the contract work is not good enough. overtime payment. Lack of transport costs to Norwegian society, including in the form of crime, are considerable. What will the Council of State do to get this relationship cleaned up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e866	The police are responsible for the transport of asylum seekers who have been finally rejected and who do not want to travel on a voluntary basis. As a result of a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway, there has now been a build-up of a remainder of about 10 %. 4 500 persons, including approx. 300 criminals who are being expelled, who are about to be expelled. The priority is given to foreigners who have committed crime. The overtime agreement for the outsourcing of the police is governed by an agreement concluded between the Police Joint Confederation, the Norwegian Civil Service Team and the Ministry of Justice, now the Directorate of Police. The agreement was concluded on 1 November 1999. The agreement may be terminated by the parties at least three months' notice. The Joint Police Association has expressed its dissatisfaction with the compensation provided to the police under this agreement. However, the association has not used the option of cancelling it, which would be the normal procedure. Figures from the Police Directorate show that police officers transporting asylum seekers receive much higher compensation than has been obtained in recent media redundancies. However, we are facing a capacity problem due to the large increase in the number of asylum seekers in recent times, and the numerous refusals to apply for residence in the country have led to a significant increase in the need for emigration. Nevertheless, there has been a significant increase in the number of shipments. In the first quarter of 2002, 1 277 asylum seekers were transported. It's more than ever before. During the corresponding period in 2001, 688 were transported. In other words, the stopping of transport does not lead to correctness. However, it is problematic that the police have so far no power to meet the needs resulting from the increased influx of asylum seekers. The judicial authorities are now cooperating with the non-resident authorities on an action plan for the forced transport of these non-residents before the summer. Rapid deployment will now be an important signal to the countries concerned, as the number of asylum seekers is increasing experientially in the summer months. Some measures are already effective. On 10 April this year, the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs signed an agreement with the International Organization for Migration. This is a UN-supported organisation that, among other things, shall motivate foreign nationals who refuse their applications for residence in Norway to leave voluntarily. The purpose of the agreement is, inter alia, to: to free police resources that are currently being tied up in the field of transport. I also assess whether, among other things, retired police officers and the civil border controls at Gardermoen Airport shall be able to assist the police in transportation. The size of the budget is at least. S. No 4 for 2001-2002 asked the Government to investigate the use of prison watchkeeping companies. Forced transport of asylum seekers is part of this work. It is a prerequisite for the exit to be carried out under police control. I have now approved that the Police Directorate sends out an invitation to tender for participation in such a project. In conclusion, I can inform you that the Police Directorate is currently having ongoing discussions with the Police Union with a view to finding a solution to the issue of the deportation of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e887	I must first be allowed to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that I have not claimed that the shipment has stopped. I have pointed out that we have a problem with that. Otherwise, I note that the Minister also points out that there are large surpluses here, and that there is a large proportion of them who have committed crime and thus have to be expelled, and that it is urgent. I am positively surprised at the answer I get, and I am looking forward to a move on the issue. In terms of what is referred to in the media, it has, among other things, by the director of the POD was shown that the difference between demands and wishes was somewhat marginal, and so perhaps one could have solved this in a simpler way than taking the big debate in the media about these things. After all, it must be an objective and an intention for the Minister and Ministry to meet the requirements that society sets as norms. For this reason, I would like to ask: within what time frame does the Minister expect it to be possible to intervene in relation to the balance that is now available?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e896	I am fully aware and aware that the representative Ellingen has not said that it has stopped. So it wasn't said for the sake of the representative Ellingen, but he gave me an opportunity to tell the public through his excellent questions to me. With regard to the time perspective, I have asked to get this plan quickly, that is, over a few weeks, and I have said that we must have clicked on this before summer. These include: about those who should travel voluntarily, and many of them do. I have been told that in March there were more of them we call groundless, who turned around than arrived. It's also the case that a lot of people travel on a voluntary basis. The Prime Minister’s excellent initiative to stop the payment of compensation in Norway to those who have been refused is one of the measures. But my perspective on this is that we have to get pressure on it until the summer, and it requires cooperation not only between the Ministry of Justice and the police, but also between us and other departments. So I have to say, I rarely go into the media's tariffs. I don't think it always contributes to solution, and I've learned as a politician that if you want to be polemic, you'll usually keep it to yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e903	Yes, I thank you again for an interesting answer, and in the end I will try to ask the Minister if he sees any concern in getting professional groups other than the police to assist in the transportation. I expect that this might create a conflict with the Police Federation and those who may not want such a system, as well as with law enforcement. Would there be a need here to make some changes to the regulations in order to meet such a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e908	The Directorate of Police has been given a mandate to follow up what the Storting has said about tendering procedures, testing procedures for the transport of prisoners, and we have also asked them to assess it in the case of asylum seekers. It is essential that this be done under the direction and control of the police. I then take it for granted that when you want to invite a tender, it has coverage in the law. We are also obliged, as the Ministry, to follow up what the Stortinget asks us to do, because some of the announcement from the Stortinget was that we should be as cost-effective as possible when it comes to both prisoner transport and asylum delivery. And let me say, without going further into the offer with regard to the security company, that this is exactly what the government is trying to do with the voluntary exit, connected with the pressure that comes with not getting paid money once you have been denied. So if anyone is going to say that, by knowing it, one has set a limit on supposed geniusist politics, I hereby confirm that that was the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e916	‘12. This March, a report on violence against prostitutes was presented in Bergen. This report revealed very alarming circumstances. Prostitutes are kidnapped, among other things, over several days, subjected to brutal violence and abuse. The cases are rarely reported. What can the Council of State do to improve the situation of the prostitutes, and what concrete action can he intend to take to protect this vulnerable group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e923	The outreach in Bergen by the Street Prostitution Team, the Kaia team, with the support of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, has produced a report in which the aim was to identify the violence of women in the street prostitution in Bergen. The Ministry of Justice has received a preliminary version of the report, but it has not yet been finalised. The report is based on interviews with 12 women in the prostitution community in Bergen and on previous surveys carried out in Norway and other European countries. The figures from Bergen support the findings previously made, which show that women in street prostitution are exposed to violence on an alarming scale. The violence to which the women are exposed is largely done by random customers. Violence varies from holding the women to brutal rapes with several perpetrators. In some cases, women have been threatened with weapons. Most of the abuses appear to take place in the street, but also customers' homes have been the scene of several rapes. This kind of violence is shocking. In our fight against violence, I have asked the Directorate of Police to implement a series of measures focusing on the prevention and combating of violence against women. These include: measures taken to enhance police competence in violence and abuse and to develop models of multidisciplinary cooperation: family violence coordinators are established in each police district. Educational material is developed in the context of the problem of «violence in close relations». Efforts have been made to improve police registration procedures. Police action to secure women in prostitution will vary according to whether this is street prostitution or prostitution. The internal market, i.e.: provision of housing, massage services and the like makes police prevention difficult. However, police presence in public space is likely to have a preventative effect on this issue. Problems related to trafficking in women, Trafficking in Women, are also being addressed. The aim is to help reduce the sexual exploitation of women. Among other things, a Nordic-Baltic campaign is to be launched, which is intended to enhance the competence of the police. The campaign shall also provide relevant information to prostitutes in order to better prevent and prosecute violence. The women in the current report reveal that they have largely good experience with police officers. Nevertheless, they often choose not to report the relationship if they are subjected to violence. This often has a background in, for example: that they lack a signal on the perpetrator due to intoxication, the experience of being assigned low credibility and previous experience in dedicating cases. In order to gain a wider understanding of the prostitution environment, the management of the Ministry of Justice will discuss measures in relation to prostitutes who are subjected to violence, including, inter alia: Pro Center. The Pro Centre was established in 1983 and is a national centre of excellence for prostitution. The mission of the Centre is to systematise knowledge and to disseminate knowledge and guidance to auxiliaries, authorities and the public. Pro Centret has competence in the field of prostitution in a broad sense, i.e. Both child prostitution and female and male prostitution. Furthermore, the centre has general competence for the phenomenon of prostitution and working methods in social work with prostitutes. In addition, Pro Centret assists current universities and colleges with material and education and receives students and host students. The purpose of this is to give a broad description and to state that we are taking this seriously, and that we are trying with different means to attack what the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e946	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. It was a very satisfactory answer, and I am very pleased that the department will discuss these measures to help prostitutes with the Pro Center. The report shows that women in street prostitution are the most violent and violent. The report also says that violence against women who are prostitutes is rarely reported to the police or registered with the Leges Act. In view of this, it is not an easy task to take action. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice if, when the Ministry of Justice receives the completed report, he will carry out an evaluation and, if necessary, evaluate some of the measures proposed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e955	It is clear from my response that I want to evaluate many measures, both under my own direction and in cooperation with other government councils. And let me add, to use a little popular expression here: there are some solid social pigs that are behind the exploitation of these women. They're called in formed language for pimps, but most of the time it's about people who have a cynical view of everything just profit comes in. It is clear that many of these women are in a desperate situation. Many of them come here to the country perhaps on an unclear basis. By signing up they are sent out, so they are in a Catch 22 situation. It is clear that reaching them is absolutely crucial, and then at least one of the measures is to go after the backers. The police have now started such a work. The phenomenon is called Catch. It's a tranny expression for taking someone. I would like to discuss with Catch, who has already had an impact on the fight against drug trafficking, whether these aspects of prostitution are also issues to be addressed at some point, because they are the backers we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e962	As important as measures to protect these women from this type of violence is to help them out of drug addiction, which is often the cause of their prostitution. I therefore wonder whether, on the basis of the forthcoming drug notification and in cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs, the Council of State will look at specific measures for this vulnerable group in relation to their drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e967	I can confirm that. It's quite right that the trouble is associated with a lot of relationships. It's also that prostitution is not a single phenomenon, it's a complex phenomenon. But in any case, it must be that people who come into a hopeless situation of coercion, and who in that context are subjected to violence, must receive help differently. I would like to stress that despite the action of the Pro Center and others, in fact, the social services the prostitutes depend most on, the police. When I've not been in favour of the criminalization of whores, it's based on the good reason that we then risk making the everyday life of these girls even worse. You can't take away the only friend they have from them. So the police are a lot of the social contact area that makes them have a minimum of security. And the presence of the police is one of the things that in the elections between the undermen brutalizes this less, by being present. So I have to say that I carry these things with me, among other things. because I have quite heavy existing experiences through my work in the Church's Bymission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e977	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘Wang Toppidrett has applied for the establishment of a department at the Church Park secondary school in Moss. There is broad political consensus both in the county and at the municipal level in Eastfold about such an establishment of a top sport line. In view of the many applicants concerned, it is desirable that the school should start from the autumn of 2002. The matter has now stopped in the department. Can the Council of State contribute to the rapid handling of the matter so that the start of the autumn of 2002 is possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e986	The answer to the question is essentially yes. After the government change, I immediately took the initiative to simplify the administrative procedures for the treatment of private school applications, which has considerably reduced the length of the procedure. However, as far as the application from Wang Toppidrett is concerned, this has taken a little longer than other applications. This is due, inter alia, to: that Wang Toppidrett has asked for exemption from the private school law's demands on the principal. The Ministry has also had to ask the applicant for supplementary information concerning the application. It would not be right for me to formally conclude in advance regarding the processing of this application, but I would nevertheless like to say that once the terms of approval have been clarified and we have received this supplementary information for the application, the ministry will be able to decide the matter quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e995	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That was positive. I also expect that Wang Toppidrett will accept the rules that apply to private schools. It is very important that this school should start up to the fall, because the candidate mass actually represents five times more than it can cover today. There are also a lot of people in the area of Eastfold/Follo who are applying for that school, and by putting such a school in Moss, it will have a surrounding area that is very densely populated, so that very many people can take that education in Moss instead of in Oslo. For the Workers' Party, it is important that young people engaged in sport receive such an offer for a combination of school and sport. For my part, I want to add that physical activity we have too little of, so it's good if we get to this. So I just want to repeat the question if the Council of State can assure that as long as they go under the rules, this will start in 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1004	As the representative Eye is probably familiar with, the Government will in the relatively near future propose further simplifications in the private school law, but as long as we have what we have, we must, of course, adhere to the rules that apply there. The representative Eye probably knows better about the local needs and wishes than I do. As I said, we have managed to reduce the length of the procedure considerably, but it is clear that the assumption is that the application is qualified, in the sense that it meets the requirements of the law. We're going to help do this quickly as soon as we have the necessary information in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1011	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is an exciting collaboration project between public and private schools, and I see it as important that there is such an offer also outside Oslo. It is probably the case that Wang Toppidrett has also received approval as a private school as early as the early 1970s, so it should not be so much new that is in this application that needs so long treatment. This school is run on a non-profit basis, where government grants are wholly allocated to the students. There are many positive things here that I think it's important to assume that we can get a start as quickly as possible. I would again ask the Council of State to cut through so that it does not take another year for this school to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1018	I am cutting through on a general and fundamental basis in the sense that I have helped to ensure that the processing time is as short as possible, but I cannot cut through a law adopted here in Stortinget. So finally, we have to have the information on the table that is actually required by the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1026	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The municipality of Scotland offers three wheelchair users in primary school to go to a school other than that to which they naturally apply instead of providing adequate facilities for the school in the community environment for wheelchair users. Does the Council of State consider this to be in accordance with the Training Act § 8-1 where it states: «Grundskolelevene have the right to attend the school nearest to or at the school in the community to which they are sobbing», and § 9-3, which says: «All the students are entitled to a job that is adapted to their needs.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1035	Wheelchair users are also entitled under the Training Act to attend the nearest school in the same way as other students, and the municipality is responsible for facilitating the situation so that it is practically possible. I do not know this specific matter, and I therefore know nothing about whether the responsible municipality has informed the students and their parents of the right they have under the law, something the municipality has to do. The law does not prevent a student from being offered a better arrangement in exceptional cases elsewhere than is possible at the ordinary home school. However, such an offer cannot be made without a proper expert assessment of the case and the student and parents have been informed of the right to attend the nearest school. However, if the student chooses to attend home school after having received an offer to attend another school, conditions must be provided to enable the student to receive the training there. I would also like to stress the importance that the municipalities do not expose the student and the parents to undue pressure in this context. The student has the right to appeal to the State Education Office, if the student believes that the municipality does not facilitate the situation in an acceptable way for the student to receive the training at home school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1044	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as very positive. The starting point for my question is a specific case in a specific municipality, but there is every reason to believe that this applies to many disabled children in many schools and in many municipalities. From this point of view, there is an important question of principle, which concerns the equal rights of all children in relation to school and education, and the real integration into Norwegian primary school. I do not think it can be right and in accordance with the training law that parents of disabled children, in this case wheelchair users, should have to go round with the municipality in order for their children to have the right all children should have to go to the nearest school, where siblings, friends and neighbors go. It should, in my opinion, be a matter of course, and I perceive the Council's answer to that to the point that she agrees with me. My question is: How will the Council of State follow this up with Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1055	I must first agree with everything that the representative Molvik now said. The key in his question to me is that there is a municipality that has offered this. I have stated that it is not prohibited in and of itself, but it must be done on certain premises, it must be informed of the rights of the student to still attend home school, etc. I explained that in my reply. I do not know this specific matter, but I have checked with the Statens Bildungskontor in Telemark before that I answer this question, and they have not received this case as a complaint. I think it is generally important that the audience also be aware of their complaints, so that they can deal with the matter if they feel that they are being unfairly treated. So just to repeat, these students have a straight line with everybody else. They may be offered something else, but then on certain terms, and I do not know what has happened in this case. As far as the general question is concerned, I agree with Mr Molvik's representative. We contribute as much as we can to informing the municipalities about how this law is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1064	I thank you again for the answer. I'll go over to the level of organization, because there's also an important element here. In this case I am talking about here, the municipality has said that at the school in question, they will make availability for wheelchair users to a classroom, while in other parts of the school, such as. special spaces and spaces associated with the school leisure system, not so far intended for wheelchair users. Does the Council of State believe that such organisation is good enough to comply with the training law? And does the Council of State think this is sufficient to promote the real integration of children with reduced mobility into school everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1073	It's a little difficult for me to go into a single matter and quite specific questions about organization, but in general I'm very concerned about this issue. It can be understood that it can sometimes be difficult in existing old buildings etc. to facilitate as much as you would like, but I think it is very important that all municipalities and we, as national politicians, are committed to ensuring that we are organised, especially in the case of new buildings and when new measures are taken. What is now called universal design, should be a little problem for us, and I think it can be quite cost-effective if you take these considerations right from the start. I understand that sometimes it may be difficult in old and existing buildings, but it is difficult for me to judge this particular matter. I'm asking for an understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1091	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11 will be answered to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1099	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘1. in May of this year, a law is in place to ensure that dependants who are recipients of social security are allowed to retain the allowance in the social security area if the other dependant falls from it. However, the press informs the Swedish Government that the new law does not have retroactive effect. Was it not the aim of this amendment to improve the situation of all children who are dependent on the insured, and not only of those who come into such a situation after 1 May 2002?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1108	Age and disability pensioners in popular security today lose the right to child allowances in their pension when the other of their parents dies. This is because the child is entitled to a child's pension. However, in some cases the family may fall into total income because the child allowance tested may be higher than the child pension. In addition, the child contribution from the deceased falls away. For persons with moderate pension income, such a reduction in total income would be very unfortunate. I found this little reasonable and therefore made proposals for a change in the harvest. Consequently, from 1 May onwards, child allowances shall continue to be provided even if the child receives a child pension. Since the child supplement has been tested for income, the measure is targeted at beneficiaries with a weak economy. This amendment, which provides access to the same child allowance and child pension for the same child, applies to all payment of child allowances, regardless of when the situation has arisen. I can therefore reassure the representative that the change concerns all age and disability pensioners in the population with sole care for children. As well as the government agency as the ministry is unknown with any misleading information in the press about this. In addition, the National Social Security Agency is undertaking the necessary preparations to ensure that the social security system reaches the beneficiaries concerned as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1122	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm very happy that the Council of State is clearing up here. I am not only familiar with the signals sent to the press from the Rikstrøgdeverket about this – I have a copy of it here – but it is also practiced this way after I have been informed. I would like to ask the Council of State to send out a clear signal to the social security offices so that such misunderstandings do not take place in the future. I have had a telephone call from people who are affected by this, who have received a short refusal on the grounds that this will not have retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1134	As I said, the payment will apply to everyone in that situation, and will apply from 1 May regardless of whether the other parent dies before or after. The National Social Security Agency is already working on the necessary preparations to ensure that the social security system reaches the beneficiaries of the benefits concerned as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1139	I thank you again for the answer. I am very pleased with the clarification that was given here, and assume that there are quite a few around the country who are excited about this preparation by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1149	I will be allowed to ask the following questions: «The right to care in the care of children in the home after hospital stays is given today under the National Social Security Act § 9-10, when hospital stays have been for seven days. Medical development has led to shorter and shorter periods of sleep. Will the Council of State change the rule so that the practice is in line with modern medical treatment principles and that it is essential for the admission of care allowance to be an assessment of the need for continuous supervision and care from one of the parents in the rehabilitation phase?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1158	In the past, care was not granted at the time of child hospitalisation unless there was a life-threatening or other very serious illness or injury. In Ot.prp. No 26 for 1996-97, it was proposed to introduce care allowance, now called care allowance, to parents with children admitted to hospital for more than seven calendar days, regardless of diagnosis. In the course of the examination of the proposal, the Social Committee proposed that parents be entitled to care allowance even in the care of children at home after discharge from the hospital. The proposal only covered cases where the child has been hospitalised for more than seven calendar days. The Committee stated that in the case of shorter submissions with subsequent care needs for a period, chronic disease children will usually be the subject of discussion. In such cases, there is already an extended social benefit period of a total of 40 days according to the general rules applicable to the disease of the child. Hospitals are getting shorter and shorter, and as a result, several will fall outside the care allowance scheme. Most children’s hospital stays have a duration of 1-3 days. If such short-term cases were to be covered by the rules, it would involve an annual additional social security cost of between 110 and 240 million. kr, and the case must be dealt with in budgetary terms. Otherwise, it is important to stress that the more general rules on care allowance capture a great many of the cases where no care allowance is provided. As the social committee also pointed out, the situation will often be such that hospitalisation is caused by chronic illness. In such cases, parents are entitled to a total of 40 days — equivalent to eight working weeks of five days — of care allowance, which may be used for the rehabilitation of the child. When an otherwise healthy child has to undergo hospitalisation, parents will be able to receive up to 20 days of care allowance. However, the situation may be such that rehabilitation takes even longer, or that parts or all of the care allowance rights have been exhausted in advance. In such cases, paid or unpaid leave from the employer or parents may use holidays. Although hospital laytime is falling steadily, there are still many cases of longer hospitalisation. Most of the time it is in such situations that the need for long-term rehabilitation is greatest, and I therefore find it right to continue to give priority to these cases. When you see the arrangements for care allowance and care allowance together, today's rules provide good solutions. Although what might have been said could be cases where, in a final phase of rehabilitation, parents will not be able to cover the salary of the population, it is nevertheless a question of whether this is an area that should be given priority at the expense of the many other important challenges and needs that we need to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1171	I thank you for your answer. The reason for asking the question is, among other things: two very specific issues which have been dealt with in social security law, and which show that there are clearly examples that we have situations where children are printed after six days, for example, but where the medical condition clearly indicates that the severity is equal to if the child had been lying for seven or eight days. In a way, building a rule based on the number of days and not on the medical condition in which the child is in seems to be a somewhat square way of understanding the child’s needs. We have several examples that there have been alternative medical treatments where one form of treatment — which is not considered to be the best one — suggests an eight-to-ten-day sleep period, which parents can then choose to receive care, while the best form of treatment indicates a six-day sleep period, and it is not chosen. It seems a little pointless. Doesn't the Council of State think so?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1178	I should not go into the medical assessment and the different treatment methods. What is important, however, is that the legislation requires the border to go somewhere, that the social committee has expressed what I have said in the reply before, and that there are other arrangements. The question of even better arrangements means that we also have to assess the budgetary aspect, and in that case this is a budgetary matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1183	I am aware of what the Social Committee has said in this matter. However, it may also be that development takes place, so that assessments made by a former social committee should also be reviewed. I have an urgent appeal to the Council of State. I agree that the border should go somewhere, but it seems unreasonable that the border should go by the number of days, and not by the child's needs. I find it strange that the Council of State insists that it is the days that come, too, that should be the important thing, and not the child's need for care and thus the parents' need for care.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1190	I fully agree with the representative that it is important to follow developments closely. But, as I said, this is also a priority, and it has a budgetary side – in that case this must be assessed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1198	I have the following questions: ‘In the context of the 2002 State budget, the Welfare Alliance has applied for grants of NOK 700000 above cap. 614, heading 70. According to information from the association, they were to receive a response to the application from the Social and Health Directorate during March. When can the Welfare Alliance expect to receive an answer to a request for money for operations in the current year, and will the Council of State ensure a positive treatment of the application?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1207	The welfare alliance is a voluntary stakeholder organisation that has put poverty issues on the agenda in several contexts. I have examined the matter and in this respect I have been informed by the Social and Health Directorate that the application will be dealt with as soon as possible, and at the latest within the month of May. For the current year, have cap. 614 item 70 a frame of 39.2 million. NOK while total applications for 102 million have been received. kr. Applications have been made for many good purposes and it appears from this that the amount of the application far exceeds the sum made available. However, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health states that the procedure will also focus on the comments made in the budget statement of the Social Committee, where the members of the Committee of the Workers' Party stated that the Velferd Alliance should be granted support. I cannot, at this stage, advance the outcome of the application procedure, but I would like to reiterate that the Social and Health Directorate will examine the application as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1216	I cannot see the answer from the Social Minister as very positive. I can't believe what she's saying is that she'll be in favour of this application. I can have an understanding of that. But if I can't get a clearer answer, I'm kind of disappointed in it. For the government has been relatively high on the road in combating poverty, and I believe that in that case this is a poor response to the Government's poverty effort. This is an organisation that is just working with those who have the most difficulty and who are poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1223	That's absolutely right. I fully agree with the representative that the Velferd Alliance is a good and important organisation in this work, along with very many others, and it also provides important insights into our poverty investigation. What I want to say is that it is important that these types of organisations are supported, that they get a quick response, and that they have a predictability for their operations. The fact that it has taken a little longer this time is probably the result of the many applications and of a change in social and health management, which was also initiated by the previous workers' party government. But I promise to follow up this matter quickly. What the directorate has confirmed to me is that by the end of May the Velferd Alliance will have received an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1230	I sincerely hope that the Minister of Social Affairs will look a little bit special on this application, because, as I said, there is an organization that does the maximum, and that does a very good job for the poor. Then I understand that the social minister and I agree that it is difficult to run an organisation where the financial framework is so unpredictable. I sincerely hope that it will be as the Social Minister says, that they will get answers very quickly, because they were actually promised an answer in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1237	I think the answer is given in what I've already said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1242	Question 15 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1248	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Rome and romance claim it is too difficult to get cheap substitutes. Int. S. No 145 for 2000-2001 asks the Municipal Committee of the Government to assess the evidence requirements and the requirements for comparability. In addition, the current government parties, SV and S.R., asked the Government to establish a separate compensation scheme for persons who had been forced to undergo forced sterilisation. Many rooms/romanies that were attacked are now old, and there is an urgent need to find solutions. How far has this work come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1257	As a follow-up to St.meld. No 15 for 2000–2001, Norway’s National Minorities — State policy towards Jews, women, rooms, the Roma and forest Finns, and the Int. S. No 145 for 2000–2001, from the Municipal Committee, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working on an overall action plan. This work, coordinated by the Interministerial Cooperation Committee for National Minorities, also includes an assessment of what is required by the representative of Østberg. There is no doubt that serious abuses have been committed against individuals in the work that has been carried out or financially supported by public Norway against the Roma/romani people. Former State Council Sylvia Brustad used the occasion St.meld. No 15 gave an official apology to these peoples for the burden they had been subjected to. Also former councillor Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad offered an official excuse for these circumstances. Compensation for forced sterilisation is a matter of great importance to the persons concerned and the Government is committed to clarifying it. I would therefore like to take the initiative to give this issue a separate treatment, in cooperation with the departments concerned, so that we can quickly find out whether a separate scheme should be established and how it should be designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1266	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the work on an action plan has started, and I am particularly pleased with the promised initiative of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs to address the issue of compensation for forced sterilisation. When the Municipal Committee considered the matter, the then Council of State sent a letter referring to a report by researcher Per Haave, «Sterilisation of the Taters 1934-77». According to the letter, the report concluded that 300 tattoos may have been sterilised from the 1930s to the 1970s. The unreasonable thing is that the basis for compensation is whether the damage or loss occurred at the time it was professionally and socially accepted – and it was. They are therefore not eligible for compensation. This is unreasonable, and since the upheavals occurred in the period 1930-1970, it is urgent. When does the Council expect a treatment of its own to be completed? And will it come as a matter of its own, or will it be part of the action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1277	The establishment of such a system will, of course, require the Storting to adopt a decision on the rules and to grant money to them. So it can not only be part of a separate action plan, it must also enter the budget or otherwise come back to the Storting. The action plan as such is a continuation of what has already been promised in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2000-2001 and in this way should not be the subject of a new landfill. I dare not say anything at the moment about the timeframe in order to obtain a separate order. It will depend on how long it takes to investigate it, the possibility of financing it, and the limitations you see in relation to other issues. But I fully agree with the representative of Østberg that today's logic behind the compensation schemes otherwise – that if the policy of that people's group was acceptable at that time, it does not provide the basis for getting separate, individual compensation – does not mean that with today's measures when the group it is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1286	It's true that we have apologized, and in St.meld. No 15 starts by apologizing. But first of all with regard to those against whom we have committed an infringement, I am afraid that it will only be despised by our governing body if we apologize without finding solutions and concrete measures. The Roman People's Association has actually called for an audit commission, pointing to the fragmentation of families, lobotomy, sterilisation, forced integration, child kidnapping, misposition in specialised schools, failure of the supervisors and abuse of institutions as a topic. Does the Council of State see the urgency of such a system of compensation, or does she perhaps wish to meet the demands of the National Association of the Romani people for a commission of inquiry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1293	Related to St.meld. No 15 was the measure that was taken at the time to remedy, among other things. These abuses, better historical management of the traditions of the Roma/romani people in Norway, among others. through the Glomdal Museum — taking care of the peculiarity of culture and providing evidence of this for the future. In St.meld. No 15 were not required to introduce any such specific compensation schemes or a separate review. In principle, I think we know a lot about the abuses that have occurred – there is a lot of research and documentation – and I think it would be a delay in the process to go through an investigation before you were able to investigate a replacement scheme. Sweden has established a compensation scheme. What was the starting point of the decision last year was that one should go in and look at the Swedish scheme, and possibly make an investigation into whether such a scheme should be implemented in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1322	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1328	This question, from Knut Storberget's representative to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1331	‘Successful implementation of the Eastern Zone region requires the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the General Decision. Does the Council of State believe that the assumptions of the Storting decision on noise, water pollution and the number of settlements affected following today’s implementation plans remain firm and will be fulfilled?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1338	The decision of the Grand Duchy in 1999 on the establishment of the Eastern Region, cf. St.meld. No 11 for 1998-99, Regional Shooting and Training Field for Defence Departments in the East — Region of Eastern Europe, was based on the introduction of a manoeuvrative-oriented operational concept. The basis for the notification was the need for defence and a comprehensive impact assessment of the impact on nature, the environment and society as far as was fully described at the time. Since the work on the impact assessment was completed in 1998, follow-up studies have been carried out of independent expert consultants on all themes as a basis for the planning process and on-going preparation of applications for emissions under the pollution law. The result of these studies is that the impact on nature, the environment and society is largely the same or slightly better than that presented to the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 11th@item: The project has paid particular attention to the following: 1. the organisation, as far as possible, of makeshift as a substitute, i.e. settlement in the form of similar real estate2. increase the entry for ‘remedies and follow-up studies’. This has been followed up by the cost framework proposal presented in the St.prp. No 55 for 2001-20023. Adjustment of the plan of operations for the defence activity in the field of fire. This has been achieved through an ongoing planning process and is incorporated into a sub-communal plan In the case of field noise, it is recognised that the activity will cause noise to the environment. In particular, this residence and cabins in the noise zone, where it is now theoretically estimated that 305 dwellings with 950 persons will be exposed to noise. However, these figures differ slightly from previous estimates, due to different estimations. Nevertheless, the reality is that, seen as a whole, the noise is assumed to be slightly lower than previously calculated. Detailed planning for the location of stand for heavy weapons and adjustment of load sizes is aimed at minimising the noise load as far as possible. The prevalence of levels of noise likely to cause population distress is therefore attempted to be reduced in relation to the impact assessment. State pollution control will set permitted noise levels on its own basis. With regard to the part of the issue of pollution to water, I can inform you that the defence has the aim of moving to lead-free ammunition for small arms. For Østerdal garrison and Regionfelt Eastland, the process of phasing out lead-containing ammunition will be accelerated. This means that the landfill of lead in the field will be significantly reduced, whereas for copper there will be a risk reduction through the location of measurement areas and the management of heavy metal waste from ammunition. From these points of view, it is my opinion that the implementation of the project takes place according to the leadership of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1363	I thank you for the answer, which is a good answer for the people who live around this really violent natural intervention, from the point of view of the great community. However, what caused my question and, to a large extent, the fears of many, is that the nature protection organisations have the opposite conclusion in relation to both emissions – copper, phosphorus – and among others. with regard to the use of Rena River. In this way, there is also reason to ask further what is the reason why the project manager, Dag Westby, confirmed on TV 2 last week that the assumptions are broken in these areas. Is it the case that the project director and those who run this project have a different opinion from that of the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1370	The fact is that the project manager believes that the look-up that was on the news last week is not sufficient for what is actually the relationship, and that what I said in the answer is also quite comprehensive for the project organisation in fact believes in that area. With regard to the claims made in the media on investigations by the nature protection organisations, there is a report that the defence has not been made available. It has not been received by either the project management or the Ministry of Defence. It is therefore not possible to comment on what has happened in the media by going in and evaluating the individual pieces. Of course, the defense can do it further. But so far, it's just something you can relate to based on what's been in the media, and it's not enough to see if what they're pointing at there is correct, or if there's things that are actually within what was already in the impact assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1377	I thank you again for the answer and am glad that the statements we heard last week, in so far as they do not represent what is the public view – no matter how they may have been cut to. But does not the Government now see a need to calm the population, interested organisations, etc., and does this not mean that proper concession treatment should be given to these conditions, in particular those relating to emissions, and that, in fact, the concession treatment should be awaited before entering the soil, just to provide security around as important a situation as this major natural intervention?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1384	So far, the conclusions are that there are no deteriorations associated with this project in relation to what the Storting has decided. On the other hand, the assessment in the Ministry of Defence and from the Minister of Defence is so far in the new impact assessments that there is actually less burden in these areas than the Great Britain did. In this way it would be wrong to stop the project as such. With regard to SFT requirements with regard to noise and emissions to water and land, there is an ongoing process between the action holders, the Åmote Municipality and the State Pollution Control Authority to arrive at the final content of the application. The aim is that this should be clear by 2002, so that the review procedure, in case of appeal proceedings, is completed by 2004. But there is nothing in the studies that has been done, and the development of the project that has now been, which should indicate that this is the basis for stopping the project, because there are consequences that Storting has not taken a decision on. On the other hand, it is better. In this way it is nice that the representative Storberget has been asked the question here – perhaps it calms down in relation to the media stores that have been there. Of course, these kinds of questions are disturbing among people, but that is not the basis of what the Defence and Project Management have now been working on, because of this turmoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1391	We go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1397	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: « each year, Member States appoint a number of committees, boards and councils. Many of the samples are important pre-mistake providers for decisions that are subsequently taken in government, magnificence and other bodies. It is therefore important to have a wide and representative composition when sampling etc. shall be appointed. Both geographical, gender, age and professional background needs to be carefully considered. The Government has guidelines to address these concerns in the context of the appointment of State samples, boards and councils, etc. ?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1406	Since 1987 is St.meld. No 7, Governmental selections, governments and councils, etc., are presented every four years, while the summary section showing the actual composition of the various councils and selections is online and will be available to the public on the Internet from the autumn of 2002. There are no key guidelines in this area, but there are very many considerations to be taken into account when identifying and appointing members of government boards, councils and committees. The most important thing is to take into account the requirements of Section 21 of the Gender Equality Act. The 2001 background figures show that 41 pst. of the members of the boards, councils and committees were women. Also in 1997, which I'm going to use a little bit as a reference, the women's share was 40 pst. So in this area one has succeeded in caring for the representation of both sexes, as the requirements are – and I had almost said: it should just be missing. In terms of area of residence and age, background figures from 2001 show that persons from Oslo and Akershus are relatively overrepresented in relation to persons from other areas of residence, and more overrepresented now than in 1997. In 2001, background evidence shows that 43 pst. come from Oslo and Akershus, while the proportion from the same area four years earlier was 31 p.m. Furthermore, the same background figures show that 48 pst. of the members of government boards, councils and samples come from the 50–64 age group, while the corresponding figure four years earlier was 41 pst. To put it mildly, I am not overly enthusiastic about this development. Of course, each department or public body to obtain members and alternates from a sample, board or council must carry out an overall assessment on the basis of the mandate of the sample, the statutes and the qualifications required by the sample or council. But in the overall assessment, geography and age are also important dimensions. It is not always possible to take full account of the appointment of members of the council and committees, but to try as far as possible. Last time St.meld. No 7, Governmental Selections, Governments and Councils, etc., were presented, in 1997, the then government said that it would give priority to the following issues: 1st@item: inlistbox The government will work to maintain the proportion of women in the college bodies and at the same time increase the proportion of women in leadership positions.2. The government will work to increase the proportion of younger and older people in college bodies and to ensure the geographical distribution between members.3. The government will work to increase the proportion of people with a migrant background. We can therefore see that in relation to these objectives, the first objective is achieved. The second objective is clearly not achieved. So the third goal is, as far as we can see, to do something about it. I want to, when I'm going to post new St.meld. No 7 for the Grand Duchy later this year, consider whether there is a basis for assessing the need to make recommendations in order to fulfil both the professional and political tasks which, after all, are the main objectives of the sample and the council, while ensuring a broader and more representative composition of these boards, councils and committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1440	I'm very pleased with the answer. I think the Council of State sees the point and sail points out the biases that lie here. The last report I have had available is from 1999 and is published by the Ministry of State. I just want to mention a couple of numbers, not to go into depth: c. 49 pst. come from Oslo and Akershus, while, for example, 1 pst. comes from Sogn and Fjordane and 1 pst. from East Agder. This is, in my view, quite a serious number, in relation to who is allowed to get that kind of problem. The councils realized that the women's share was good. In contrast, when it concerns managers, it says that it was 23 pst. female leaders of the selections, while 77 pst. were male. So I think we have a job to do right there if these numbers are still in force in recent years. My question to the Council of State is: would it be possible to propose guidelines, in addition to having intentions – that is, concrete guidelines to be followed in connection with this type of work? The second is, has the Council of State considered the problem that we often have a rather uneven distribution in relation to this with a professional background, that the university environment and the research environment are often over-represented in relation to other types of professional environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1451	To this extent, I can only repeat what I said in my first reply that in the context of the work on the new big business message we will consider recommendations. I think recommendations will work better than absolute guidelines, but we need to consider what is needed to get a better representation. As far as this is concerned, with a professional background, the situation is probably slightly different. In many boards, councils and selections, there is a basis for a wide range of professional representations. But in some of them there are also issues of involving special skills, and that will probably always lead to that in many governments, councils and selections there will be an overrepresentation of people with higher education. Once again, what we have to achieve is that the qualification requirements that have to be met, they have to be met. That's what's the main function. But we have so many exciting people around the whole of Norway that it should be possible to attend at the same time to the wishes of old age and housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1463	I'll just close the cards. As I said, I see that the Council of State takes this seriously, but I want to follow developments closely over the next few years and see if this improves in line with what the Council of State was about. I thank you for the answer, and am glad that this is taken seriously in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1470	I would like to thank you for your response!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-17.ana.ud2547e1486	This question has been raised. Case No. So 1 is done.
