ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e54	Honourable co-representatives! It was with sadness that we received the notice that former depositor Ivar Odegaard died on 29 October, at 77 years of age. Ivar Odegaard was born in the municipality of Lunner in Uppland, where he grew up on the small farm Marka on Grindvoll, which his parents drove. He started his professional career in 1945, when he began as a station officer at the Grefsen station. After completing a conduct course at the Railway School, he was employed as a conductor at the Norwegian State Railways in 1947. He held a number of positions of trust in the Conductors’ Association until he was elected district secretary in the Oslo district of the Norwegian Railway Federation in 1960. Later he became a secretary at the NSB's main administration from 1967 to 1973. From 1973 to 1982 he worked as a consultant in environmental and protection matters, later as a first consultant from 1983 to 1987, as a welfare manager from 1987 to 1989 and as a work environment manager from 1989 until he retired in 1993. Ivar Odegaard had a number of trusts in both the professional and political fields. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Trade Union Confederation for 13 years and Vice-President of the Trade Union Confederation of Oslo Labour Party from 1974 to 1980. He was a board member of the Oslo Labour Party for many years and had a number of trustees in local party teams. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Norwegian Railway Company of the Norwegian Workers' Party from 1965 to 1969. As an elected trustee, Ivar Odegaard was very concerned with information activities, and he was a driving force for the training of trustees in basic organisational work. His commitment to the trade union movement always went hand in hand with his political commitment, and he was a hot defender of the professional political cooperation with the Workers' Party. His political commitment also brought him into the Storting. Ivar Odegaard was elected alternate to the Stortinget for four periods, 1969–73, 1973–77, 1977–1981 and 1981–1985. He met several times as an alternate and as a permanent representative from 1 October 1977 to 14 October 1981. He was a member of the Administrative Committee from 18 October 1977 to 1 October 1978, a Vice-President of the Committee from October 1978 and an alternate member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee from the autumn of 1980. He was also a member of the election committee at Stortinget’s inauguration in the autumn of 1981. Ivar Odegaard was a knowledgeable man, and he was always well prepared for matters in his field. He was an indispensable person with a lukewarm and good sense of humor. He had many friends both among representatives and employees. In 1993 Ivar Odegaard was awarded the LO’s highest distinction ‘Pioner’ for his expeditious and long-standing commitment as a trustee in the trade movement and in the Workers’ Party. It is in deep respect that we bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e94	The directive that we are approving today aims to strengthen workers' rights in terms of health and safety. The Directive deals with the organisation of working and sleeping time. The search light is correct for employees not to cause injury to others or to themselves because they are simply tired. It also includes the right to a health examination for night work and, in addition, the right to four weeks' paid leave. And then we realize that the directive is a minimum directive that only to a limited extent is relevant to Norway. It is also possible to derogate from its framework by means of regulations or collective agreements. However, the fisheries organisations were very critical, but in cooperation with the organisations a proposal for a regulation has been developed which opens the way for a collective agreement to be concluded. It has dampened the criticism a lot. However, a comprehensive committee stresses that the exceptions must be provided for the necessary dispensation conditions which safeguard the interests of the whole fishing industry, including fishermen. Although the Directive does not provide for Sunday rest, the Working Environment Act remains in place so that it does not have consequences for Norway. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been heard and has no comments, so the Municipal Committee suggests that the Stortinget approves the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e105	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 519]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e120	: St.meld. No 37 for 2001-2002 concerns the ILO's 89th International Labour Conference in Geneva last June. The message contains a short version of the issues discussed and the decisions taken. As a follow-up to the conference, two cases will be submitted to the Stortinget for ratification, i.e. Convention No. 175 on part-time work and Convention No 184 on agricultural safety and health. Convention No 175 were joined by the ILO Labour Conference in 1994 and are mentioned in St.meld. No 36 for 1994-1995. He could not be ratified in Norway immediately. Norway did not comply with the Convention in respect of its right of representation in the governing body. The regulations of the Share Act have now been amended and the Committee endorses the recommendations of the Ministry and the Norwegian ILO Committee on Ratification. To Convention No 184 informs the Ministry that some clarification is needed. The Committee agrees that agricultural safety and health can be defined very differently depending on your country. The Norwegian ILO Committee is in favour of ratification, provided that Article 3 of the Convention provides for a derogation for liquidators. Noregs Bondelag has said in his hearing that they believe from their point of view that Norwegian environmental legislation in certain areas goes far beyond the requirements of the Convention and the Recommendation on safety and health. They are, however, one of the few hearing bodies that have asked questions about their accession to the Convention, which will impose new requirements on the industry they represent, for example. requirements for compulsory farm health services in agriculture. It is apparent from the Ministry of Labour and Administrative Affairs' assessment that there will be a need for changes in the regulations of occupational health and safety laws in order to comply with the requirements of the Convention. The Committee is in favour of ratification. We have argued that the work currently being done in the department is in close dialogue with the agricultural industry, and we are also saying that if such clarification leads to the ratification of the Convention increasing the cost of nutrition, then we should refer the matter back to the Storting before any ratification. We note that, in connection with the second convention that we have to deal with today, no. 175, went back to Stortinget. So we're not making that a requirement on the committee's side. It is only in case it triggers new costs for the agricultural industry. So with this, it's a consensual committee that's in favour of ratifying both of these conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e137	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 520]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e153	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e160	Inner. S. No 20 for 2002-2003 concerns the new Svinesund link, etc. The Government has proposed the creation of a separate toll company for the new Svinesund link. The company should raise the necessary loans to finance the development of a new link and manage the collection of tolls. The Svinesund link is important in accelerating the development of a continuous four-field road between Oslo and Gothenburg. The construction of the new Svinesund bridge is undoubtedly epoch-making. This is a historic decision for Norway and the Nordic countries. Swinesund Bru is the very gateway to Europe from Norway. This border point is also the main road-traffic year with very high traffic, so that today’s Svinesund bridge is unable to meet the increasing traffic needs of this link. The development of a four-field road throughout this route is important both for road safety and for the promotion of business. The project shall be fully financed by tolls through a common Swedish-Norwegian toll scheme at the national border at Svinesund. The Swedish and Norwegian Governments signed an agreement on 7 August this year between the two States in which the premise for such a joint toll collection was clarified. It is a historic decision that is now being taken, in which the Swedish side also showed the willingness to contribute to the user funding of this development. I'm glad to see that you're now getting a head start on the development. There are very high accident rates on E6 through Eastfold. Traffic cooking on E6 through Eastfold is higher than on most other road sections of the country. The road is of poor standard, and the number of road accidents has increased dramatically in recent years. This is not sustainable, and I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport has actively worked to speed up the development of a new Svinesund link. As the case rapporteur and representative of Eastfold County, I am pleased with the good and constructive work done by the Minister for Transport on this matter. The Minister of Transport has taken concrete action on a matter that several former Ministers of Transport have had the opportunity to address. Now thought and paperwork are finally translated into action. I therefore expect the new Svinesund link to be opened on 7 June 2005 and the toll collection to start afterwards when the link is opened for traffic. The project is of great importance as the main road route to Europe. Norway’s main road link between Oslo and Gothenburg will then have improved capacity, which will mean a great deal for transport needs and safety. The goal of zero vision is important for the Christian People's Party, and correcting the E6 is a good start towards this goal. On behalf of the majority, I would therefore recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e175	I would like to join in the matter raised by the rapporteur on the occasion of the case. In our opinion, the Stortinget, by a large majority, adopted the positive decision on the forced expansion of E6 through Østfold, including a new bridge over Svinesund. Furthermore, Stortinget decided that the Svinesund link should be financed by tolls. This was to be a cooperation project between Norway and Sweden. The organisation of the toll company itself was to come back to us. Today we have the matter for consideration. The agreement between the governments of Norway and Sweden was signed on 7 August 2002. Here lies the premise for the tolling system itself. The Svinesund link itself shall be fully financed by a tolling scheme at the national border. The Tompengegesellschaft, the Svinesund compound AS, is wholly owned by the Statens vägvesen. This will now be established in 2002. The Svinsund link shall be able to raise loans from the State under market conditions. The pig health compound is scheduled to be opened to traffic in 2005, more specifically on 7 June. The toll collection starts when the distance itself is open to traffic. The savings made by the Eastfold package itself in this solution shall be directed towards a reinforced development of the remainder of the Eastfold package. I would like to thank the efforts and action of the Council of State and the Government for their support for the Eastfold package and for the solution for the new Svinesund link. This power of action contrasts with the government of Stoltenberg. In the 2003 budget, the Government follows up the Eastfold Package. E6 Halmstad–Patterød with 125 million. kr, E6 Patterød-Akershus limit of 100 mill. SEK, E6 Assurian-Klemetsrud with 130 million. kr. It is my pleasure to see that this road section will soon have the necessary road standard. It will benefit businesses, drivers and the environment. And not least – it could reduce the number of tragic accidents that we are constantly experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e196	The whole idea of tolls began a couple of decades ago with some toll imposed. However, as early as 1991, the sum of tolls that we road users had to pay came up to NOK 1 billion. Ten years later, we can see that the sum is up to NOK 2.6 billion for a service that was actually meant to be the responsibility of the state. Section 20 of the Road Act states that the state bears the costs of planning, construction, repair, maintenance and operation of highways. Today we adopt a financing arrangement for a new bridge over Svinesund, which involves 100 pst. toll financing. In addition to all the revenue from the bombs, the state took in – the last figures I have – from 2001 is NOK 10.5 billion in petrol, at a charge of NOK 4.7 billion in car diesel, at an annual fee of NOK 5.3 billion, at an annual weight tax of SEK 342 million. NOK, in a one-off charge of approximately NOK 10 billion, in the re-registration fee of NOK 1.6 billion and in the levy on lubricating oil 52 million. kr. The sum of these excise duties will then be NOK 32.5 billion. Then we have something called personal injury tax, which you get in the insurance. It's at 810 million. kr. Then we have a specialty in Norway, that there is VAT on all our fees. So there the state takes in another 4.2 billion kroner. Then we are up to a sum of fees for 2001 of NOK 37.5 billion. In addition, the tolls, as I said earlier, are going to be around 40 billion kroner that the state is taking in from the drivers, and this year, the numbers are going to be even higher. Then it is just to remind you, when we have a new toll project for treatment today, that what the state is issuing again, both for the operation of roads, for the maintenance of roads and for the construction of new bridges and roads, is about. 10 billion to 11 billion DKK. In addition to that, we have huge oil revenues. Then I find it sad that we in the oil country Norway have passed 40 toll facilities, and that we are adopting new ones almost every week. As I said, the Progress Party is in favour of new Svinesundsbro, but we honestly believe that the state should finance this by the ordinary means.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e207	The Government has proposed the creation of a state-owned toll company to raise the necessary loans to finance the development of the Norwegian part of the new Svinesund link. Tolls should also be collected by the company. I am pleased that the Storting supports the Government's proposal. Without prejudice to the Storting's handling of the matter, in October, I asked the Directorate of Road to start working on a proposal for a loan agreement between the State and the company. In this respect, I have taken the view that the agreement is to be concluded by the State at the Ministry of Transport. The agreement will be concluded and the toll company will be established as soon as possible in line with the treatment of the Storting. The construction of a new bridge is central to the deployment of E6 between Oslo and the national border to the continuous four-field motorway. The rapid expansion of E6 through Eastfold is necessary, both in terms of traffic volume and, above all, road safety. Both the people of Eastfold, the business community and others who regularly use this major year between Norway and Sweden will be delighted that we are now getting ahead of this development. Then we choose to use tolls on this project, because it gives us the opportunity to speed up this project, which we believe is so important. Traffic accidents cost society a lot in terms of concrete costs to hospitals, rehabilitation, etc. There are many costs that are also borne by society in connection with the pain and suffering of those involved. That is why I believe that this is both a sound project and an important project. I am pleased to register the agreement on this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e218	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e221	Like several of the previous speakers, of course, it seems to me that it is very positive that a decision has now been taken to support the development of E6 through Eastfold and also the construction of a new Svinesund bridge. It is imperative and has been so for many years. So it's positive. However, what I think is very negative is that the majority are in favour of toll financing for the new Svinesund Bridge. Thus, once again, the Progress Party is alone in opposing toll financing of such projects. What makes the matter even more special is that at the Svinesund Bridge, which is actually the entrance gate to Norway, the first drivers coming from Europe, meet when they come to Norway, are now to be met by a toll station. I think that's very negative. The other thing that is very special about this particular case is that there is a clear overweight of Norwegian registered cars passing over the Svinesund bridge. Actually, 83 pst. of all passenger cars across the Svinesund Bridge are Norwegian registered cars. Then you can analyse this further. This is based on a traffic census for the year 2000 that 58,5 pst. of the 83 pst. are drivers who are going to Sweden to trade, and of them again 85 are pst. from Eastfold. If you add this — and this is a relatively simple calculation — you will find that East folds that go to Swinesund to trade food and alcohol and tobacco actually finance 43 pst. of the new Svinesund Bridge. I think that is nothing less than a scandal in view of the negotiations that the Norwegian authorities have had with the Swedish authorities in this matter. It is that you can believe that these things have not been evaluated at all. I therefore think that these things should be reconsidered. I think it is very unreasonable that Eastern folds have to pay 40 pst. by the new Svinesund Bridge, which is actually a national matter and which should be financed by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e230	I will not repeat the rapporteur's observation of the importance of getting this case into port. I'm going to join in what he said, and I'm also going to join in the commendation he gave the Minister of Transport for her activity and commitment to this matter. But I have to point out in relation to what Anne Berit Andersen said that this contrasts with the predecessor. I would like to remind the representative Andersen that the government does not have a majority in this Chamber, and that in this case the government's basis and birth aid have not been set up and contributed to getting the matter into port. Then there is a little interesting thing in the setting, namely that a joint committee – including the Progress Party – looks forward to the opening of the new Svinesund link in 2005. However, the Progress Party is opposed to the position on this matter and does not want the link toll to be financed. This means that if it had been adopted, there would have been no opening to look forward to 2005. There's a new confirmation that this party is leaving to others to make sure that things come from word to action. It's a party that protests to all the world, but so it has to be happy about the journey when it can start.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e237	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 520]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e252	The work on the dissemination of higher Sami education and research has stimulated a debate on the role and purpose of higher education and research for society in general. Do all people and cultures in the world need the same knowledge? Does everyone need the same knowledge to develop their society and their peculiarity? The answer given by the Committee is no. All nations, countries, geographical areas and cultures need different knowledge. And education and research take place on these premises. The establishment of the University of Oslo was in its time — and is still — important for Norway both culturally and economically, and without Norwegian academics both then and now developments in Norway would have been different. These are perspectives we need to take into account in the work on the future of higher Sami education and research. Most of the parties in Stortinget have had this in mind through their work on the paper. Education and research are very international in many areas, and it is also reflected in our institutions. But it's also a topic that can be said to be most peculiar. And that's what you're dealing with today. Development of Sami language, reindeer and indigenous knowledge are areas of particular interest to Sami. Professor Ole Henrik Magga, at the hearings of the Committee, stated that, through Sami education and research, the Sami is being developed from traditional to modern. This work takes government and accumulation seriously, and the result is available for treatment today. During the examination of St.meld. No 34 for 2001–02, this was addressed in three wordpillars. One is recruitment for education and research, the other is the institutions involved, and the third is research and its organisation. In the case of recruitment, it is particularly the limited basis that is the theme. There is a relatively small number of people who initially have Sami backgrounds and know Sami. The Committee points to a number of measures, such as: distance learning, student welfare, recruitment positions and scholarships, just to mention someone. The Committee's particular emphasis is that recruitment to Sami education and research is not only to be seen within Norway's borders. Same people as an indigenous population live in the entire North Callot in four different countries. Recruitment should therefore be seen in the context of all these countries in order to increase the scope and offer of co-operation in all these countries. Here, all the environments and institutions involved have an important task in the future. The Sami educational and research institutions have come a long way in a very short time. The establishment of the University of Tromsø and the Nordic Sami Institute early in the 1970s was the start of a major investment in the area. Later, Sami higher education has come into existence, as well as a number of other higher education institutions having different responsibilities. This big message will point out the direction of the further investment in higher Sami education and research, and it is a very offensive line of Government and the Storting adds up. The University of Tromsø with its professional breadth and commitment to Sami and indigenous themes is an important locomotive. To this end, the Committee wishes to implement the university's Sámi strategy plan for education and research. The University of Tromsø takes its role as a university in an indigenous area seriously, and it is perhaps one of the world's leading institutions in indigenous research. It's a very good basis to build on. Sami University of Kautokeino is the youngest in Sami education and research. With only 13 years behind it, we have come a long way, and the Committee is committed to continuing this development. Both the Government and the Grand Duchy open up the possibility for the Sámi College to become a scientific college with national responsibilities in a number of disciplines. The Committee is of the opinion that this will require a sound financial basis for the development of the depth required by a scientific college. The Committee also draws particular attention to the need for Sami higher education institutions to have a greater role in northern Sami languages and the development of Sami as a scientific language. Sami higher education is currently the only institution in which Sami is the working language of both administration and education and research. The College of Bodø and the College of Nord-Trøndelag today have a special responsibility for lulesamian and southern Sami respectively. It is important that these areas receive particular attention, as this is a minority in the minority. This will require a financial instrument to enable a high professional level to be maintained in both lule and southern Sami. The Nordic Samisk Institute in Kautokeino is not an institution directly under Norwegian responsibility and control. The institution is owned by the Nordic Council of Ministers and is a joint Nordic project. However, the Committee is concerned that the Nordic Sami Institute and the Sami College need to be co-located and co-organised, in order to make better use of the academic resources available in Kautokeino, and to integrate two environments for the benefit of the whole Northern Calote. The Committee therefore considers it important to set up a new scientific building in Kautokeino. Sami research faces several challenges. The Government has announced a reorganization of the Norwegian Research Council and the Committee is concerned that the Sámi interest in this reorganisation will be taken into account in particular. The Committee is particularly concerned with strong cooperation and coordination between the different Sami research communities, both nationally and internationally. Although research and scientific work are initially not restricted by national borders, the Committee is concerned with the creation and publication of more Sami research in the original language. Therefore, the recruitment of researchers with a high level of professional competence who manage Sami is very important. Reinforcement research and reindeer research are essential both for Sami life and Sami culture. Therefore, the Committee distinguishes between scientific research and social sciences. The Committee notes that such research in environments with the best knowledge of the various aspects of this should be anchored as far as possible. Tromsø, with its strong Arctic natural sciences environment, has an important role, and Kautokeino, through its proximity to reindeer management, should have a greater role in social science research. There is a great deal of consensus on the way forward in Sami higher education and research. The debate has been marked by a willingness to invest and to find good solutions. The government presented a good big message that also inspired a constructive debate. Through the work of the Committee on this matter, contact has been made with the different environments in Norway. Many pioneers have been met, and there is nothing to suggest that developments in Sami higher education and research will stop. The environment is small but maintains high international quality in its work. This is a good basis to build on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e288	A national responsibility for higher Sami education, Sami-related subjects such as: Sami languages and Sami craftsmanship are the carriers of the university's activity today. Easy-to-ice modules in natural and resource management and some social sciences — what they mean now — will be a science college in the future. Developing Sami languages as a science subject with the aim of strengthening the Sami environment and enabling Sami languages to be established at master's level as a basis for awarding doctoral degrees is, in reality, what we are talking about. It had been a more natural task for the University of Tromsø, in the view of the Progress Party. In addition, Sami craftsmanship is to be completed as a major subject at the Oslo University of Applied Sciences. In addition, a certain range of professionals is requested in order to defend a professional transformation for the main purpose, a scientific college which is, of course, to be accredited by NOKU. The party does not find the basis for the transformation of the Sami university into a scientific college well thought out. When it is seriously promoted a claim that Sami should be included as a scientific language without providing substantial evidence that this language will be relevant to an interesting number of users, the Progress Party finds it difficult to provide unreserved support for yet another higher education concept. It's actually like 40 pst. of the Norwegian Sami indigenous population enjoys the offer of the big city in the country's capital. Having said this, there are certain rules that make me not want to speak out more and so push the Progress Party a complaint in these bullying times. For the Progress Party, it is important that it is not discriminated against in any way, in relation to gender, ethnicity or background, or in relation to economics. In it is that we have a demand to be taken seriously by the rest of the population in the country. With that, I aim that we have thousands of families who are concerned about their daily outcome. There are large cuts in municipal budgets, cuts that affect education, industry, care and business in general. I will not bother those present in this room with the comments that will fall among ordinary people if the Progress Party also grants money to develop a scientific college with the necessary research many miles into the Finnmarks. In addition, the dissemination of research resources is not our policy. For the sake of order, I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party does not in any way express itself on the quality of the offer given at the Sami University today. We consider that to be a task for the accreditation body. However, it is of great importance to note that the economic implementation of the quality reform in general for all institutions seems to be problematic. Travel expenses for students from study places to visits to homes have also been difficult over time. From an economic point of view, it would therefore mean significant expenditure if the relatively large quota of inhabitants of Oslo, with a Sami background, wanted to study at a Sami scientific college. We may also have a capacity problem, which has not been assessed in the notification. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the University of Oslo seems to have met the need for Sámi crafts education so far in a good way. At the same time, until now, the University of Tromsø has done an excellent job in the fields for which the university has been responsible. Finally, I would like to refer to the comments of the Advance Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e307	Raymond Robertsen has given a good account of both the message and the setting, and he has done a fine job as rapporteur-in-chief. There is an overall committee behind the vote, except for the special comments of the Progress Party, and Ursula Evje has made it clear why they are not in the majority in this case. Higher education and research are important for the development of Sami society and for Sami identity. Knowledge of the Sami is gained through research and this knowledge is passed on to new generations through the educational institutions. Here all the institutions that have Sami as special play an important role. We have a national responsibility to facilitate the development of our Sami indigenous people, both language and culture. In this context, it is important to develop the language as a scientific language, which can be used in higher education and research. We know that the recruitment basis for higher Sami education is limited. It is therefore important that educational institutions seek to recruit Sami students from both Sweden, Finland and Russia. The Central Party agrees with the Government’s proposal for recruitment measures. The University of Tromsø has developed indigenous perspectives in most disciplines in a good way. The Central Party agrees with the Government that it is necessary for the University of Tromsø’s Sámi strategy plan to be implemented. It is necessary to have recruitment positions earmarked for Sami-related subjects. Sami higher education is the only educational and research institution that uses Sami language in its activities, and it is a very good offer for Sami students. We believe that Sami higher education can be developed into a scientific college. An obligatory funding and procedure plan must be established to achieve this objective. And precisely because of the limited recruitment opportunities, basic appropriations for Sami higher education must be secured at a level that allows this school to operate in a good way. Nordic Sami Institute and Sami University must be co-located, and we are pleased with the government's positive attitude towards a new science building in Kautokeino. We also believe that co-organization is also necessary. It appears from many points of view that the recruitment basis for Sami higher education is limited. This also makes recruitment for research difficult. The Central Party therefore agrees with the Government that special scholarship schemes, language training and internationalisation are important ways to go in order to increase recruitment for research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e324	The Mjøs Committee's setting, which came two years ago, has in many ways contributed to the premise for the message we are processing today. The emphasis of the Workers' Party has been on the strong leadership of the sample as regards the development of an overall Sami-language competence environment, which will gradually be developed into a scientific college. This goal is now within reach, and the Sámi University of Kautokeino will be such a scientific college in Finnmark after a targeted effort in a few years. Furthermore, the Workers' Party has in various contexts highlighted the importance of identifying and taking initiatives for innovative activities in the field of Sami higher education, education and dissemination, of the higher education institutions providing services in Sami. In the long term, these environments will be able to establish the desired database to document Sami social conditions. In the message, it is a review theme that responsibilities and measures are to be shared mainly between the environment in Tromsø and the Sami University of Kautokeino. The communication focuses on actions and responsibilities, but unfortunately says little, if nothing, about funding. This is the weakness of the Government message. In fact, the message focuses on the university’s submitted strategy plan for Sami education. The Ministry even writes in the 2003 budget that consideration should be given to providing the University of Tromsø with funds to implement the Sámi Strategy Plan. Then we're going to have confidence that the assessment has been carried out, whether or not the money has been proposed to implement the action, despite the fact that the university is entrusted with a national responsibility for indigenous research, education and dissemination, and has already spent 1 million. to draw up the plan document. The majority of the Committee has stressed that it is the University of Tromsø that currently has a national responsibility for Sami languages at the primary and doctoral level. We are also concerned with the responsibility of one institution on the part of the Workers' Party, but we do not exclude that other institutions will be able to hold a greater responsibility in the Sami language in future. So we went to Sámi University in Kautokeino. Here I would like to start by saying that it is good that State Building has started its work on a future new university building in Kautokeino. The school is currently located in the Defence deportation facility, which is, in fact, not suitable for modern education. A new school building is also necessary in order to obtain the desired joint location with the Nordic Sami Institute, a co-location of both institutions wants. This is about both co-location and co-organization. It is an exciting idea and a solution that will strengthen the professional environment in the community. Even today, Sami teacher training in Kautokeino recruits students from Sweden, Finland and Russia, and it is important that the development of the Nordic region as a recruitment area should continue and be further developed. There should be a lot of pressure on recruiting students from all over the North Callot. The majority of the Committee then also agrees that, in the future, Sámi College should have a national responsibility for Northern Sami languages in line with the school’s responsibility for Sami craftsmanship. So a little bit about research. There has been a broad debate on research in the Sami academic environments. I am pleased that the Committee has so clearly underlined that industry-related reindeer research is mainly to be carried out in Kautokeino, and in close cooperation with reindeer operators and reindeer industry organisations. It is important to stress that research is to be carried out in the communities and in the reindeer-based and reindeer-based environments. Finally, I would like to quote from the debate in Sametinget when they dealt with this matter, which I had the pleasure of attending. Then one of the representatives said the following: ‘Does the Government believe that the measures proposed are free of charge? This should be noticed by Stortinget." Yes, that's true. And then it should well be our joint responsibility to finance the actions we agree on, which will provide a necessary boost for Sami higher education and research in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e353	I would first like to thank Mr Robertsen for a good review of what has been achieved by a majority of the committee. The Committee points to a number of important points. St.meld. No 34 for 2001-2002 must also be seen in the context of the examination of the communication on the common policies now taking place in the Municipal Committee and of a common policy. This message is important for the Sami indigenous population, it is important for the Norwegian population, it is also important for the indigenous population in other countries, and it is important for the Northern Calotte and cooperation in the Northern Calotte. Through international law and national law, the Norwegian authorities have an obligation to facilitate the maintenance and development of the Sami language, culture and society of the Sami indigenous population. The size indicates that the language has a natural place and use in higher education and in research. In the case of recruitment, Storting points to some important points. Both primary and secondary education have the right to have Sami as their first and second languages. However, this must be brought back to Parliament in the context of the discussion of the communication on the common policy under consideration in the Municipal Committee. We have pointed out, among other things: study welfare, adult training and various recruitment measures, including: scholarships for pre-school teachers are important. The University of Tromsø has primary responsibility for both research and teaching in Sami language and culture. This is one of the important pillars on which the university was founded and established a number of years ago. The University of Tromsø has done this in a good way in a number of areas of indigenous research, for which the primary responsibility lies. We have pointed out that the Sami College should have a central role in developing the Sami scientific language. The development of a scientific college is, as a number of representatives have previously been involved, the goal, and with a targeted focus, this will be in place within a few years. I am pleased that the Committee has expressed a positive opinion on co-location with regard to a new Sami science building, and that the Nordic Sami Institute and the Sami College should not only be co-located, but should be co-organised as far as possible. This will strengthen competence, the environment and research, which are cross-border. I would then like to point out one important point in terms of research, as the Committee has also pointed out, and that is that the reorganisation of the Norwegian Research Council must take into account Sami research and indigenous research. This is important. Norway shall aim to be among the world’s best countries for indigenous research. This is important both for the Sami environment, for Norway and internationally. As the representative before I pointed out, this will cost. These are things Stortinget has to follow up in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e376	In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the broad majority who support the main features of the government's communication, and also that it has succeeded in having a broad majority in the committee position. Christian People's Party is part of it. We have heard the representative of the Progress Party clarify the differences in policy in this area. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the situation of the indigenous peoples is also a national responsibility. It concerns both culture and language. Norway also has a special responsibility, simply because a large part of the Sami population lives in Norway. We also know that Norway has actually been leading the way in the question of indigenous peoples on our part of the European map. In the Committee's position, we have pointed out that the University of Tromsø has a special responsibility. They have had it so far in relation to research training, and they have also developed a strategy plan to take care of it. We think it is important that it be implemented and followed up. It does not prevent new institutions from also taking responsibility within language and culture. But to do that, I think it's necessary to strengthen the environments that we already have. As far as professional environments are concerned, we have a Sami university in Kautokeino, and we have the Nordic Sami Institute. And it is positive that there are now plans for a co-location in a science building in Kautokeino, which can facilitate a closer integration of this professional environment. However, I would point out that the Sami University School is a purely Norwegian responsibility, while the Nordic Sami Institute is an institution of the Nordic Council of Ministers. And while the President of the Nordic Council is now sitting and presiding, I would like to point out that Norway needs a dialogue with the Council of Ministers and the other Nordic countries on how we can achieve a stronger union of forces without weakening the responsibility and involvement of neither the Council of Ministers nor the other Nordic countries in strengthening this professional environment. Here we have a challenge that I think we should take seriously and work on. I think it is important for the entire Sami population in the North Callot. Let me also point out that the Committee in its position points out that we have some smaller language and cultural groups within the Sami population, and that some colleges have been given responsibility for these. Bodø is responsible for the Lulesamian population. The Nord-Trøndelag College has a special responsibility for the south-Samian population in terms of language and culture, especially in relation to teacher training. It is important for me to point out that these institutions need to be provided with funds in addition to that resulting from the ordinary financing mechanism in order to be able to take the responsibility for these small language groups that this is about. I am pleased with the broad majority behind the position today, and I hope and believe that this can help to strengthen the Sami education in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e391	The President allows himself to correct a slight exaggeration. It is not the President of the Nordic Council who presides, but the future President of the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e394	I am pleased that the Committee determines that Sami education and research are important for the development of the Sami society and that we have a national responsibility in this context. I would also like to add that through international law we are obliged to facilitate the preservation and development of the Sami people as indigenous peoples of Sami languages, culture and society. It is therefore a very important matter for the now treated Sami people and society. Stronger commitment to Sami higher education and research will enhance the Sami identity and competence, thus improving the capacity of society to develop. The majority of the Committee, in its position, agreed with the background description given in the Storing Communication, and thus with the Government's justification that there is now a need for increased investment in and strengthening higher Sami education and research. I have noted and am pleased that the majority of the Committee broadly agrees with the measures proposed in the Storing Communication. I have also understood that the Committee broadly agrees with the division of responsibilities between the various educational institutions provided for in the communication. In the case of Sámi higher education in particular, there is a broad commitment to the Government's objective that the university should be able to develop into a scientific college. The majority point out that it will require targeted efforts both by the ministry and by the college itself. I have noticed that the Ministry, in consultation with the College, should set up an obligatory plan for funding and the procedure for it to become a scientific college. I agree that a future changed status will depend on the university making a professional effort, so that it meets the professional requirements that will be imposed, and that the ministry will follow up with the necessary resources. I'll take this up with the college. At the same time, I have noticed that there is a consensus that the Sami college must carry out the same accreditation procedure as other institutions when applying for a changed status. It is important to ensure that the institution maintains a high professional level. The majority agree that Sami University and Nordic Sami Institute should be co-located and have expressed their satisfaction at the government’s positive attitude towards a new Sami science building in Kautokeino. I point out that this is a construction matter that is still in a planning process. The matter will be referred to the Stortinget in an ordinary manner when this process is completed. I have also noticed that the Sami University School and the Nordic Sami Institute are not only being co-located, but also being co-organised. I will address this in the Nordic context when the future organisation of the Institute is considered. In the field of research, the majority indicate that the Research Council has a five-year programme for Sami research and agrees with the Government that this programme needs to develop further. In the message, the Government is committed to strengthening the Sámi Research Programme. This has been followed up by proposals for an increase of 3 million. kr i Ministry of Education and Research. No 1st@item: The majority have stated that Norway should aim to be among the leading countries in the world in the field of indigenous research, and have pointed out that the Urfolk network will play an important role in this respect. I fully agree with such a objective. We're already a long way ahead in the field of indigenous research, but we can get much better. The Urfolk Network is a collaborative project run by the University of Tromsø, the Sami University School and the Nordic Sami Institute in order to define, initiate and coordinate research efforts in key areas of joint research and indigenous research. I believe this is the right approach that needs to be taken to strengthen and coordinate the activities of rather small and scattered trade unions. The majority call for a review of reindeer research in the notification. I refer to the fact that reindeer management research has been given a brief mention during the Ministry of Agriculture's activities, as reindeer management and related research activities are covered by the Ministry of Agriculture's sectoral responsibility. However, I have noted the majority's emphasis on the importance of basic research also in reindeer research and the majority's opinion that the University of Tromsø should have a national responsibility for the natural sciences part of reindeer research, while Sami University and Nordic Sami Institute should be built up to discharge national responsibility for traditional reindeer management knowledge and the social science aspects of reindeer management nomadism. I agree that such a division of responsibilities can be natural, which will be based on and adapted to the professional strength and preference of the institutions. I also expect the institutions to be prepared for such a division of labour. The focus must be on quality and value creation. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e411	Increased recruitment to Sami education and research, and thus also building up knowledge of Sami social conditions, Sami culture and Sami languages, is a policy area that the Government is positively highlighted and put on the political agenda through the enlargement report that we are discussing today. I think it is important to point out that the development of good educational provision aimed at the Sami population and research in Sami languages, culture, business and social conditions, in other words, must not only become an activity for the particularly interested professional environments linked to the University of Tromsø and the Sami College, although these institutions will have a future primary responsibility for education and research within their special fields. Sámi issues and Sámi challenges must also provide interesting research and professional issues for more researchers and research communities, including at other universities and universities. Nor must the research and knowledge development related to Sami issues and Sami purposes be presented in such a special way that this is isolated from the other Norwegian knowledge and research communities. Rather, my call is to see this activity as an integral and important part of our overall research activities, where knowledge of Sami matters and Sami issues can have transfer value to other parts of the Norwegian and international communities, in the same way as other knowledge production and new knowledge acquired in other areas can be recovered in Sami culture, Sami language and Sami business development. An explicit objective in higher education is student exchange, that at least 50 pst. students must have a six-month study abroad or more during their study period. I would like to stress that this should also apply to Sami students and students at Sami college. In this context, it is necessary that students with Sami as their main language, as well as Norwegian, also acquire another foreign language. This needs to be facilitated by educational institutions providing educational services to Sami-speaking students in the preparation of their study programmes and by using foreign languages in education for this student group as well. Like the representative Lyngstad, I would like to take the opportunity to stress that the big message also deals with the fact that there is teaching in Sami language and also training of Sami-speaking teachers at the University of Bodø and at the University of Nord-Trøndelag, with special responsibility for lulesamic at the University of Bodø and southern Sami at the University of Nord-Trøndelag. Although these offers are open to applicants from neighbouring regions in our neighbouring countries, the target population is limited and the number of students is low. At the same time, current study services are very important for those concerned, and in particular for the preservation of lulesamic and southern Sami languages and culture. In order to maintain and further develop these courses at the College of Bodø and at the College of Nord-Trøndelag, it is therefore important that extra resources are earmarked for these activities at both places of study. Without such earmarking of funds for this particular purpose, I am afraid that colleges will not be able to maintain such specialised study facilities for a very limited group of students, especially when higher education institutions are increasingly allocated budget funds after student and weight numbers production. It is therefore necessary to give special attention to this part of Sami higher education in the coming years, so that an important part of Sami culture and language does not disappear because of the lack of provision in our education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e426	The notification and setting makes a division of tasks between our various higher education institutions: the Nordic Sami Institute in Kautokeino, the University of Tromsø and the environment in Oslo. It's important to keep in mind that there are different institutions that have a responsibility for the different parts of what we're talking about now. There is also a broad consensus that the Sámi University of Kautokeino should have the ambition to develop into a scientific college. But I really want to stress that in this process a standard requirement should be set. It shall be through accreditation and shall be subject to professional judgement. And until that happens, it's awfully important that the university is still a college and has a responsibility to develop as a high school – a good state college. For there are often designed some contradictions between a university, a scientific college and a university. They have much the same tasks, with different emphasis on education and research. But I would like to stress that the Sámi University of Kautokeino will continue to develop within the framework they have today, within languages, social sciences and Sami culture, and this work will be taken seriously on the way forward towards changing status, which is the goal. This means that, in the future, Sámi College will have to develop new courses in these main fields of activity, regardless of their status, regardless of their role, and that we take this seriously, precisely to strengthen this university, which is needed to strengthen both professional and research. The Committee is also ready to do so with the Nordic Sami Institute, which is close to the Kautokeino College. It's important that there is close cooperation. Ideally, one should have integrated these two institutions, precisely to strengthen the professional and scientific environments of the Kautokeino. Arne Lyngstad pointed to some of the practical problems associated with this, as the Institute has links with the Nordic Council. It is established by the Nordic Council of Ministers. I now expect the Council of State to engage in a dialogue with the Nordic Council of Ministers with a view to integrating these institutions. It will be important just to strengthen higher education, not least on the research and teaching side. I hope that it is possible to find practical arrangements in relation to this very thing, because I am reasonably sure that the ability of the Sami university to develop within Sami languages, and become a heavy player in Sami languages, is linked to the possibility of achieving close, well and preferably integrated cooperation with the Nordic Sami Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e436	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 520]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e452	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e459	Many of the debates that characterise Norway today are just about primary school. Both resource use and system change are under the spotlight, and I think we can agree that there is a real commitment from all parties. This exposure is the basis for the promotion of Document No by the Party of Progress. The 8 that we have to deal with today. The proposal extends – from the length of teacher training to the ownership of our schools. The party wants a system change at many levels in primary school. The majority of the Committee would also like to see certain changes. However, the reason why we believe that it is not right to deal with the proposal as it exists is that either work is done on the issues in the ministry today, including: through the Quality Committee, or we've simply dealt with the issues. This applies, inter alia, to: teacher training and school environment law. The majority want a debate in the United Kingdom on a major issue with a high level of education to take place on the basis of investigations and a broader overall thinking than a Document No. Eight proposals provide a basis for this. As we know, there is a so-called quality committee that is working on quality in primary school. The mandate of the sample is to assess the content, quality and organisation of initial training. I will refer to some of the objectives of the Quality Committee: High-quality training shall be provided to all, regardless of age, functional level, ethnic and social background, sex and place of residence.The selection shall describe, analyse and assess the main features of the current supply structure and the content, organisation and quality of initial training, in relation to the intentions of Reform 97 and Reform 94.The selection shall evaluate the length and extent of initial training.The selection shall describe possible strategies and measures for developing training in the light of different developments, national and international, and assess their implications.The selection shall assess the overall public expenditure of initial training in relation to the proposed actions. In this context, the sample shall explain how, in order to ensure and improve quality, freed resources can be recovered in primary and secondary education at any 12-year term. This sample shall end its work by 1 April 2003. As can be seen from the sub-targets of the sample, it is an ambition to plough deep into, among other things. the boxes in Document No: The 8 takes up. In the budget proposal, which we also deal with in these days, it says that in 2003 the Ministry, among other things, will assess the impact of the current financing scheme on quality and adaptability, and what legal and contractual works have to say on the action options of municipalities, schools and individual teachers. This is consistent with some of the things the Progress Party also mentions. I notice that the Progress Party, in its comment, says that they ‘are alone about implementing a system change in the Norwegian school framework’. I would say that there is something our government has been concerned about, so it is focusing on quality development in the Norwegian school. Both resource use, organisation and learning outcomes have been the focus of many issues put forward by the Council of State in the last year. It is therefore surprising that the Progress Party needed this Document No. The 8th proposal. The Christian People's Party wants a good Norwegian school, and will continue to work to make it better and better. I will therefore look forward to major school debates in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e492	The need for far-reaching changes in Norwegian schools, both for private and public schools, seems to be indisputable to most people. Despite the demand for changes, which have increased in magnitude over time, I have noticed that the majority, consisting of all parties – from the Socialist Left Party on one side to the Right – do not find reason to ask the Government to propose a major change of system based on the measures outlined in the proposals of the Progress Party. The majority have a lot of reasons why they don't want to do anything about school right now. The people who are concerned agree on this. How they can agree with as far as substitute motives are in themselves remarkable. But when you use the majority's own words, that in the majority's opinion it has to be'seen in a larger context', you might put a perspective on it. That's what's in the comment. What the majority really means by ‘a larger context’ is unclear. But I would prefer to suggest that it's about the hegemony of the so-called school parties in defining the only right school policy. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the school day for more than one and three hundred million people in the country is a major link. But the majority want an even greater relationship. The unisone ramaschwark from municipalities and parents does not seem to have penetrated into either the comitology or the government quarter. The majority here refuse to ensure predictable funding for individual schooling — with simple grips. As regards the quality of the training, the quality of the learning environment and the safety and safety of the individual girl and boy, it does not seem that the events of the last few days have had any effect on the majority, which unfailingly continues on the path they chose many years ago. To draw a couple of parallels, I would like to point out that there is more recent research that says that something as simple as cohesive problems in children cause major problems in training. The individual municipality, e.g. in Akershus, have no competence in this regard, and children are therefore not fully trained — nor is proper special education. Is it possible that the newly discovered problem of consensus is not a new phenomenon, but concerns issues that also have a significant impact on the political environment? If so, we should start taking it seriously. In the case of the unwillingness to admit that teacher training was not as good as one had hoped, it should again be possible to enter into discussions that would lead to a improvement, including, among other things. a professional unit with regard to class management and training for the student in promoting class management and education and education as the concept of children. We could go into discussions get to do this before the new teacher training has solidified itself in a final form. It would eliminate the need for expensive bullying that works for a long time without visible effect. It is a fact that Dan Olweus has been present with his program at the much-discussed school in Moss, according to the HEMIL Centre's own information, for more than one year. Is it the case that we, as representatives of big business, are equally troubled by the audiovisual nature of our children in school, that we do not have a clear and well-founded policy without a sample assessing whether there is a need for change and how to resolve the need? With that, I would like to address the seven proposals mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e511	The representative Evje has addressed the proposals she mentioned. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 520]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e521	The store is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e697	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e731	During the debate, the representative Ursula Evje put forward seven proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals incorporating the Private School Act into the Training Act and opening up the free establishment of schools based on national eligibility criteria.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the school funding scheme so that school money is paid by the State and paid directly to the school that the student chooses.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the release of today’s public owned schools by establishing autonomous operating boards with pupils and parents’ representatives on the board.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the establishment of a recognition body for new schools and a quality school supervision.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the temporary takeover of school buildings by the State.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that teacher training be extended to 5 years.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the training period be changed from 10 to 9 years of primary school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-21.ana.ud2526e786	There is no record.
