ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e28	A number of Document Nos shall be produced. Eight proposals before we start the oral question procedure. First out to make a private proposal is the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e31	I will put forward a proposal on behalf of Britt Hildeng and myself on the review of the new rules of Law 28 February 1997 No. 19 on population protection, performances during medical rehabilitation and during rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e36	The representative Britt Hildeng will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e39	On behalf of myself, I would like to make proposals to amend the provisions of Law No 28 February 1977. 19 on social security Section 10-7h) on social security schemes for motor vehicles or other means of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e44	The representative Per Erik Monsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e47	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I propose to extend the exemption from the increase in the weight limit from 5000 kg to 6000 kg for combined trucks, from 1 March to 1 July 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e52	The representative Karl-Anton Swensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e55	On behalf of myself, I would like to propose measures to facilitate coastal fishing and to increase coastal fishing quotas in those areas where the coastline poses a threat to biodiversity and the ecological balance of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e61	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e64	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Lodve Solholm and myself, I am pleased to make a proposal to promote the necessary legislative changes so that wine and starch can be sold in grocery stores and in specialist stores.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e69	The proposals will be dealt with commercially.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e92	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Per-Kristian Fossstaatsrådet Ansgar Gabrielsenstaatsråde Kristin Krohn Devold The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We'll start with the first main questions from Per OveWidth.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e111	My question goes to the Minister of Defence, but I recommend the Minister of Finance to listen carefully. During the International Security Conference in Munich a week and a half ago, NATO Secretary-General George Robertson strongly criticised the European NATO countries for the lack of will and ability to allocate the necessary resources to the national defences, as stated in the Evening Post's statement: ‘Robertson addressed the challenge directly to the finance ministers of each country. Otherwise, the United States may rely on solitude.’ The question then becomes the Minister of Defence, a few weeks before the Government of Bondevik II will present what they call ‘Additional Guidelines for the Conversion of Defence for the period 2002-2005’: Is it still the intention of the current government to comply with its own statement by Sem to pay for the adopted structure, or is it such that on 15 March we will see the result of the current Minister of Finance’s search for a budgetary balance that must be social economy in the Ministry of Finance in order to understand something of which?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e123	The President understood it so that it was the Minister of Defence's question to which the question was addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e126	Yes, but I'm not going to rule out that the Minister of Finance would like to take a line. I would like to say to the representative, Width, who started by referring from the last meeting in Munich, where all the defence ministers – not only from NATO countries, but also from large parts of the world – were present, that it is quite right, as it is stated, that Lord Robertson was very concerned about the finances of NATO, and that all the world's finance ministers were given their own publicity in Robertson's posts. Robertson even said that he thought it was a good idea, perhaps for the next NATO summit, to summon the finance ministers. The guy who signed up then was Secretary of Defense Ivanov from Russia, who said he thought it was a very good idea. So it illustrates that, in the balance between the needs of a defense and the total finances of a country, there are challenges in all countries. But I would also like to say that Norway is still one of the countries in the NATO alliance that gives the most defence. It is by no means the worst for us, rather on the contrary, as the action in Afghanistan has shown, where we have been among the countries that can actually deliver under the commitments. So the question of whether this government is on the Sem statement. Of course, we are on the main content of the Sem Declaration, but there is also reason to add that we have had some new challenges, not least related to international terrorism. What is my clear ambition is to balance structure and funding in such a way that the main content of the structure adopted by the Stortinget continues. But as I said, some new challenges mean that we also have to take into account to finance things that we might not have been sufficiently aware of last June.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e135	I think Ivanov was clearly heard, and I will support that proposal. But I think the Council of State was a little unclear and answered a little evasively on my question. I don't think that's a good signal, and that gives me cause for concern. But I'm still following up on this with funding. In my opinion, the proportion of GDP of the defence budget in Norway is in a free fall, while in a number of our allied countries, at least the negative trend has been halted and finally turned to the positive. While our share of GDP is falling, nine hopeful nations stand there and have applied for NATO membership. As a NATO member, we have instructed these countries, some of which are the poorest in Central and Eastern Europe, to have the defence budgets' share of GDP of 2 pst. or more. The question of follow-up, which still goes to the Minister of Defence, but I still think the Minister of Finance should listen carefully, is: does the Minister of Defence feel comfortable in the context of the PFP, when she meets the representatives of these countries and makes financial demands for them, demands that she obviously does not get through in her own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e144	Yes, the Minister of Defense feels comfortable in the context of the PFP. There's a lot of reasons for that. The effect of a defence is a sum of quality, response capacity and the number of means allocated. What is challenging for many NATO countries – and I repeat that they are much worse than Norway – is that they have given money to a very large and heavy structure, which has a poor effect, poor response capacity. Norway has done a lot. In addition, the last NATO numbers show that we're still above 2 pst. of GDP used for defence, and thus still among the highest in NATO. In the case of PFP, i.e. new candidate countries to NATO, their starting point is a very immature, heavy, poor structure, so it should just be lacking that they don't rise above the NATO average when the starting point is so bad, because we don't adhere to the requirement that new candidate countries also add real capacity if they want to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e151	There are quite a number of people who have joined in on the main issues today. The President sees it as important that we make the most of it, and will allow three follow-up questions to this main question. The following have reported: Siv Jensen, Gunnar Halvorsen and Ketil Bjørklund. Then we have a proper distribution between the games. There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e156	In question 37 from the Progress Party to the Cooperation Government, we asked for confirmation that the Cooperation Government would finance the agreed defence structure. The answer is: ‘A cooperative body will ensure that the defence structure adopted by the Stortinge is financed.’ It's relatively understandable. Now the Minister of Defence says that in addition to this, new challenges have arisen in relation to international terrorism. Then I would like the Minister of Defence to confirm that it means additional funding from the Government to take over the new challenges, and that it should not be at the expense of the defence structure adopted by a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e167	When I mentioned that we have had new challenges, it is not least related to the situation in Afghanistan, where we did not know what contributions we would be asked to make, where we have been asked to deliver quite a lot, and where we have also been in the situation that everything we have offered the Americans has actually been accepted. Of course, it has a cost page that needs to be financed, and we will soon put forward a proposal to Stortinget and will try to get support for our funding model. Because we have to see the Norwegian economy in an overall context, this obviously means that it could have an impact on how much money the defense gets in the current year. However, I will by no means foreshadow the outcome of this treatment in the Government. We aim, as we have reported to Stortinget, during March-April to present an implementation proposal, through which we review the follow-up to the June decisions. My main aim is to realize the main content of these decisions. But I also reserve the right to look at some details.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e174	Gunnar Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e177	After Bondevik II had presented the defence budget of SEK 27.7 billion, former defense spokesman for Right, Ingvald Godal, came with an eloquent statement, apologizing for the Right's betrayal of defence policy. My question is: if the Right on the Next Crossroads does not follow up the promises that are now contained in the Sem Declaration, can we get a new excuse from the Right in defence policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e182	I believe that in the case of statements from my good friend and former colleague Ingvald Godal, we shall, in the name of freedom of expression, allow him to make the statements he wants, and I have no need to comment on them any other way than to say that of course I understand everyone who is disappointed that we were not able to finalise the full implementation of the decisions in June already this fall. But it wasn't time. I would like to remind you that the figures for what the adopted structure actually costs did not appear until the end of September. And when it comes to clarifying what would result in additional appropriations this year, we have actually spent the time until well into January to get a full overview of it. I have a clear ambition to pursue a defence policy that enables us to be sure that we have the defence we need, as NATO demand, and where there is a good balance between structure and funding, and I have no intention of apologizing for anything at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e189	Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e192	If the defence imbalance is to be corrected, there are a few ways to do so: either to increase the budget or to reduce the defence structure. We in SV prefer the last one. But if not the last one is chosen, it might be that the defense needs an extra grant of up to NOK 5 billion. If Norway were to choose such significant growth in the defence budget, we would follow an international trend. The United States has announced the largest increase in the defence budget in 20 years, with an increase of approximately SEK 450 billion. The NATO Secretary-General has said that NATO countries must follow suit. Russia and China have announced upgrading. In other words, we are facing a new arms race. Is it the opinion of the Minister of Defence that Norway should contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e197	What I see as the prime responsibility of the Minister of Defence is to make sure that we have a defence that can deliver when needed. I said in one of my previous answers that it is not just money that is the solution. If we're going to focus on what I think is important, namely mobility, reaction time, that we're co-interested and co-organized with our allies, we need to put the same emphasis on how we work. And there's also the question of structure coming in. A structure of unnecessarily large volumes does not necessarily give us either response time or power. But now I don't think a defense can do without money either. And what is now my challenge is to find the ideal mix between structure and new means. Here is the Government and jobs, and we still need some time, but I hope that the result will be such that the Defence can face the future with both optimism and belief that in the future we will be able to deliver far more than we have been able to in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e204	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e207	My question goes to the Minister of Finance, and that is regarding his handling of Document No. The 8th proposal on NRK VAT. The Minister of Finance said in a letter dated 1 February to the Finance Committee that he was in a position to deal with the matter. But before that, on 24 January, the Minister of Finance sent a letter to the Stortinget, to the committee, where he advised against the NRK being zeroed in VAT. After the Minister of Finance has been declared incapacitated and the Council of State has been appointed, this letter has been withdrawn. I would like to ask if the Minister of Finance acknowledges that he has done wrong, that he should have declared himself incapacitated before he made his recommendation to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e214	Yeah, I should have done that, I'll admit that in retrospect. There was one sentence in the letter that touched on the instability. But I still think that the matter was handled in a proper and proper way towards Stortinget. I also drew attention to the criticisms of individual representatives, as well as a legal opinion of the Ministry of Justice at the Legal Department. Intrusion is in many ways a difficult question of judgement, so you always have to be on the absolutely safe side. For this reason, the Government’s decision on the Set State Council is also worded in such a way that it applies to future issues where one can touch on the indirect, some kind of instability. I believe that is on the safe side. The letter has been withdrawn, but a letter covering the same reality and answering the same questions with the same content has been sent from the Council of State. The system now prevents me from deepening it, and I hope that the representative has respect for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e221	I thank you for the answer, and have full respect for the fact that the Minister of Finance is not now going into the facts of the matter. It shall be dealt with by the Council of State. But the very decision to which the Minister of Finance refers, related to the possible instability of adjoining cases, may confuse more than it solves. Many new questions are raised here precisely because the activities declared by the Minister of Finance in favour of, like Schibsted and TV 2, have many interests and different interests in the Norwegian business community. There are many questions as to the extent to which instability applies to the treatment of, for example: the press support and several aspects of the VAT system, such as: on the issue of VAT exemptions for newspapers. In other words, this means, as I see it, considerable ambiguity. So my next question to the finance minister is what he's done to bring clarity to exactly the questions that I'm going to raise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e229	What I have done is to give the quite comprehensive opinion of the Department of Justice, which, in my opinion, provides good guidance. And then practice is such that you take a stand for this when things show up. But I have underlined the considerable precautionary rule that I will follow in such matters in the future, and I think it will be respect for the fact that you cannot here construct matters and discuss them on a hypothetical basis. It has, as far as I know, also not been practice in similar cases for government councils in previous governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e234	The President will allow additional questions as long as they concern issues that are not pending within the Committee. There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e239	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance acknowledges that poor judgement has been shown by the Government, but I am still a little surprised that the Minister of Finance is now referring to one sentence in the letter to the Committee that can touch, as he says, the question of stability. Is it therefore to understand that if this sentence had not been in the letter, could the Minister of Finance have been haphazard? At my discretion, it's not the one sentence in the letter that triggers instability questions. There are completely other things that do. What surprises me, too, is that the Government and the Minister of Finance actually felt that this matter had to be legalised in the Department of Justice. This is initially a question of judgement, which must be assessed on the basis of general good judgement. And what the government here has not expelled, and the Minister of Finance has not expelled at all, is this general sense of prudence, which, in my opinion, does not require the law department's assessment at all. My main question is this: Does the State Council of Foss and the Government believe that if this one sentence had not been in the letter, you would have been havoc?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e248	No, it was this sentence that made it particularly clear, but the matter, as it developed in the debate, showed that it was especially in this area it was obvious. And I'm recording that the representative of Djupedal in the media is just attacking this one point that is linked to distortions of competition. You can always discuss whether you need a legal statement to support, but I think it's better to have such support than not to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e255	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e258	I notice that the Minister of Finance emphasises the opinions of individual representatives in the media, and that this was one of the reasons why the stability assessment was raised by the government council. Is it not the case that stability assessments are an obligation for each State Council to take on its own behalf and to exercise significant judgement and discretion, regardless of what individuals might think about that matter via the media? Is it not the case that before you even consider going into reality in a matter, you should actually clarify the question of viability? And why did it take so long from this case become a matter for the Finance Committee until the stability of the Council of State was clarified? Why could it not have clarified this at a much earlier stage and saved both the financial committee and others from significant criminal activity and to postpone the handling of the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e263	I understand that the Financial Committee intends to put an end to the matter in March, so that some violent significance cannot be one week's postponement that the Government could be represented with the Council of State at a hearing. I understand that, as far as I am aware, there is no new consultation, but the Council of State will of course be prepared to meet at any time in such a matter. I repeat what I said in the previous answer: I think it was an advantage to have such a legal opinion on the basis of which to also consider the problem of instability. Of course, it's the Council of State's independent assessment that must be at stake, but I'm putting some emphasis on, when I'm going to attend a hearing in Stortinget, how the parties in Stortinget look at stability. It has something to do with the relationship between accumulation and government, and there you have to show considerable humility on the part of a government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e268	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e271	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. Last Friday, the government council was Gabrielsen in LO's enterprise policy selection, where, according to the Class struggle, he said that he opens up for the full sale of all state shares in Hydro and Statoil. My question is: can the Council of State confirm this, and that also means that the Council of State is now considering selling out parts of or all of State power, which the State currently owns 100 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e278	I can at least confirm that I was in LO and talked about state ownership – otherwise a very fruitful dialogue, which also meant that the LO got a certain insight into the thoughts of the Minister of Industry, just as the Minister of Industry got some insight into the tensions within LO on these issues. With regard to the specific question relating to the look-up in the class struggle, if there was no cut-off limit, the basis for that headline was that I said that there was no limit to sales than that the Storting decided on a different limit. Just as the Storting has previously moved on those limits, I would assume that the Storing, in the light of the reality of which we are surrounded at all times, will review those limits. As for Statkraft, like any other company that we own in whole or in part, we are going to have a concrete review with a recommendation to the Storkraft in the announcement to be made last week in April. I don't want to go in here and say anything about either the percentage or the type of company the different companies are going to have. I just want to have the starting point that I don't have any special preconceptions about either percentages or corporate forms. A piece that becomes important in the assessment of Statkraft is the very form of company, whether to continue with state enterprises, or whether to have a limited liability company. It is an assessment that will be relatively independent of the assessment of whether a stock exchange introduction and, where appropriate, the sale/dilution of that company should be made in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e287	In the Political Quarter yesterday, the Council of State Gabrielsen said: ‘State power is one of the companies where it will probably also be such that the Government will think well about – what action options we choose, both as a goal and not least in relation to the timetable.’ In addition, Gabrielsen said that it is like sorting the post: some things you can answer within ten seconds and other things have to be investigated a little. Does that not mean that it is only a matter of time before the Minister of Industry will sell natural resources built up over a hundred years of hard work by the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e298	First of all, I appreciate the quote that I had thought to think well about it. It'll always be like this when you sort the post, whether it's Gabrielsen or Ryan, that something we can decide in ten seconds, which requires more investigation. It is quite obvious that Statkraft is one of the companies that requires a thorough investigation both as to the form of a company and as to what signals we as the owner should give in relation to any future sale/dilution. And here's a lot of alternatives other than a pure sale that could be relevant. We do not live in isolation in Norway. It's a Nordic market. There will probably be a European market next time. The question is what commercial freedom we are going to grant State power, whether they should have conditions equal to others, even if they should be wholly or partly owned by the state. When I use a picture of sorting the mail, it's relative to some of the companies that Stortinget has authorized to sell. As far as I remember on the move, SV was on it. Then there are other companies where you have a different attitude. State power is a company with 80 billion dollars in value, so it's clear that we're spending time here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e305	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e308	Right-wing eagerness after the sale of state-owned companies seems to be high. I noticed that the Minister of Finance nodded vigorously when the Minister of Industry spoke about the possibility of a stock exchange introduction and an AS. The Minister of Industry has acknowledged publicly that this is difficult. There are a few more parties in the Government who reasonably also have a view on these issues, not least in the case of State Power. If one were to opt to sub-privatise Statkraft — and there is no doubt that Right wants it — how does the Council of State intend to determine the value of a renewable resource, where installations have been disbursed, where the energy source is likely to increase in value, and where the energy source will produce far beyond what the Treasury economists can consider in terms of current value considerations? Isn't it simply a chance that right here can play a social resource built up over a hundred years and sell it on cheap sales abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e315	To take the last one first, I think the chance that the Right should put great economic values on stakes should not be overestimated. With regard to State power and how it should be valued, Arnstad suggests that there is not enough competence in the Ministry of Finance to do that. It would have been an interesting answer in itself. I think one should expect to see what the Government decides for, including partial privatisation and the principles of valuation. It is not different with appreciation in Statkraft than it is, in my opinion, in other companies engaged in similar activities. We have an exchange that evaluates the value of the companies, including those companies that are engaged in energy production and that are wholly or partly owned by private and public.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e322	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e325	There is also a dedicated ownership debate among the usual women and men in Norway, where concern is that the enormous values in which the state is also engaged should disappear from the country. That was one of the reasons there was a majority in December last year not to give the government the power to sell and sell significant values until we had a complete review. One of the main problems in Norway is that we are the world's richest country measured per. The population, but we almost do not have available capital in Norway to compete for the values that are likely to be offered for sale later. Will the Council of State just give priority to this piece, how we can continue Norwegian values in the competition that will come, and also use other internationally accepted instruments to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e332	Firstly, I do not agree with Hedstrom's premise that there is almost no capital available. I think it's hard to put forward a simple project that's really good, that hasn't been funded in the last ten years. But there are many projects that are semi-good and even poor that have not received capital, and they may not have that either. With regard to the regime to be outsourced in relation to possible sales, it is clear that the pace of this is crucial, and the structure we choose for the funding of popular security. Now we have a sample that's led by Skauge, who looks at the tax ego. I agree with Hedstrom that there may not be enough access to capital in Norway. However, it is clear that with the tax policy pursued by the Workers' Party for 20 years, with the aim of ensuring that the private element on the stock exchange is minimised – today there is no country in Europe where there is so little private element of capital on the stock exchange as in Norway – this is the result of a conscious policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e339	Olav Akselsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e342	First of all, the feature of a large amount of state capital on the stock exchange is related to the recent stock exchange performance of Statoil and Telenor. If it is that right now thinks that it was wrong, it might be interesting to know that. At least I find that the Minister of Industry has been much more nuanced in this matter than he was just a few months ago, and that there are now counter-arguments, we are of course pleased. In the same way as it should not be an objective in itself that the state should have the most potential in Norwegian business, I would also warn against a policy where it is an objective in itself that the country should have the least possible. Unfortunately, it seems to be the kind of ideology that governs Right's policy in this area. If you want to sell as much as you want right now, it may affect prices because there are not enough buyers in the Norwegian market. If you sell out to the right, it means that you have to sell these companies on the cheap.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e351	Those who hope to get large stakes cheaply should think of something else to use brain capacity on. We do not intend to make a massive sale that results in an oversaturated market that is unable to accept this at a reasonable price. We're talking about values that are so big in total that this will necessarily go over many years. It's all about that together, if you include Statoil, NOK 350 billion – I just want to remind you that the Swedish Social Security Fund's portfolio of shares is NOK 20 billion, to see the sizes of this. That means there's a long-term perspective we're putting on this. But there's a selection going on, led by Sigbjørn Johnsen, who's going to look at the foundation of popular peace, and who can have an exit that implies the pace of some of these things. For this reason that the sale should be a goal in itself, I would say yes and no. It's clear that at least it's not a goal that we should sit on 50 pst. by the Norwegian industry at the hand of the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e358	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e362	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. As the Council of State itself said in a reply to Mr Width, it is in many NATO countries today that the forces are adapted to the cold days of the war, the structure is too large, too little robust and poorly adapted to the new threat images, and then it is with underfinancing. In Norway, an initiative has been taken and a decision has been taken to implement modernisation to improve the operational unit, to meet the new NATO requirements on streamlining, to implement anti-terrorism measures and to synchronise the relationship between structure, volume and funding. So the security policy challenges are likely to call for a wide-ranging defence policy settlement that at least embraces the Workers' Party to the Right. But in Focus February 5th, the Council of State says that it would be “very comfortable for this 4-year period” to cooperate with the Progress Party. Does the Council of State see the most comfortable and expedient to cooperate with the Labour Party or with the Progress Party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e371	It is with such cooperative constellations that having different constellations can have different advantages. I think I have to admit quite openly that I probably get the most money by working with the Progress Party, but then I get the most breadth and consensus on defence policy decisions by cooperating with the Labour Party. And here's a balance. But I think that my statement in Focus was that for every sitting defence minister it would of course be most comfortable to get as much money as possible. I can also say to the representative Nybakk that a very important tradition in Norwegian defence policy has been that there has been a broad consensus on the major lines. It's something I think it's very important to take care of further. It takes a very long time to turn the defense around by reorganisations. It is very little desirable to have a defense that has to range in different directions from one year to another because you sit and wait for the aging of the state budget in Stortinget. Therefore, my primary wish is that we get the widest possible settlement in Stortinget. I believe it is desirable for the Norwegian defence to have a settlement that is such that it also tolerates a government change. We have experience with minority governments, and we know that we can get government change not only by elections, but also in the middle of major periods. My clear impression as to the defence's own wishes is that they want predictability, and that they want such a broad consensus in the Storting on how much money they can count on in the future, that it will lead the structure that we adopt. From this point of view, it is very desirable to have the Workers' Party on the team, but my primary wish is to bring all of them together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e378	I thank you for your answer. My supplementary question goes to the Minister of Finance. In the previous Focus Programme, the Minister of Defence says that ‘it will always be this way, and for me also as Minister of Defence, that a majority solution with the Progress Party will be very comfortable for this 4-year period’. I am not quite sure if it is consistent with what the Council of State said now. She adds that 'but then we must negotiate a policy that everyone can find responsible and which the Minister of Finance considers to be fiscally responsible'. My questions are: does the Bondevik government consist of a collective, or of free-floating state councils? If that's what the Minister of Defense says, that a settlement that tolerates a change of government is preferable, then the Minister of Finance agrees to follow the Progress Party, with a further DKK 4 billion per. years in the period, i.e. NOK 16 billion in excess of today's level, or will you be looking at synchronizing structure and funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e387	Yes, if you want to listen to what the Storting says, according to the newspapers, the government is either just a Right People or a Fundamentalist Presbytery – I read that in today's newspapers. I have to say that I do not know myself in any of the descriptions. But since the representative asked if the government is a team or is made up of individualists, I would say that the government of course acts collectively towards the Stortinget. Therefore, the reply to the representative’s question is that it receives an answer to when the Government presents the additional proposal announced, otherwise of this government as of the previous government, which is to meet the structural objectives of defence, take into account the security challenges that we have faced after the terrorist attacks, and ensure that they are followed up in the budget. She'll get that answer then. I can assure the representative that it will be both a defence-oriented solution and a solution that is within the framework of fiscal policy and that the Workers' Party has actively supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e392	There will be follow-up questions – Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e395	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. The main question here was who to credit for. But the Progress Party believes that this in defence matters is more serious than that, of course. Some refer to the Defense as a colossal thing on the clay feet, and claim that the Norwegian defense is in its worst crisis since World War II, and worse, it may be if the Government does not support the full financing of the new defence structure adopted by the Stortinget last summer. What are the thoughts of the Council of State about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e406	This Council of States does not believe that the defence is a ‘colossal thing on the feet of the camp’. It gives the impression that nothing works, that the defense doesn't work, and that everything is in danger of falling apart. It's not like that. We have already carried out a good deal of restructuring. And precisely my meeting with defence ministers from other NATO countries and EU countries has made me sure that much about Norwegian defence is very good, and some of the decisions we have taken and actions we have implemented make us, in fact, in some areas, among the best in the NATO class. This does not mean that we do not still have both financing challenges and structural challenges. But I am very pleased with the question, because it gives me a clear opportunity to say that Norwegian defence is of considerable quality, and we have been able to demonstrate it both in Kosovo and through our involvement in Afghanistan. And so there we are far better than many of our NATO friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e411	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e414	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. In connection with the Sem Declaration, the Progress Party sent some questions to the three cooperation parties. One of them was whether it would respect the decisions and investment decisions concerning an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. In a heated ownership debate, there have now been some unclear signals from the Government about this – something we have also seen here today. The council's adviser, Eirik Lae Solberg, has said in the media that one looks at the possibilities of selling or selling the state's holdings in the knowledge centre. Does not the Council of State think that this is questioning some of the investment decisions that are made and that it can create problems for the development of the Centre itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e425	I am fully aware of both the questions and the answers that were given in connection with the establishment of the Government, not least with regard to IT fornebu. I'm familiar with the IT Fornebu case – which is also Hedstrom, perhaps even more than I am – and I know about the “inflammation” that exists. I do not think it is IT Fornebus ownership that is the problem they might have. As for which companies are subject to which valuations for sale, I am aware of the answer we have given. But with the situation around this company now, this is not the most favourable time for possible sales. I think, to a small extent, that the development of Fornebu will be spelled out if you get owners other than a passive state. I can't imagine that. I can rather imagine the need for owners who have both capital and competence in the field in question and who may be involved in the «saving» project. I have no wish for the project IT Fornebu to fail. On the contrary, I accept the view of the majority of the population of where and in which type of enterprise you are going to enter with ownership, and I will manage that ownership on the basis of the premise that I will make the best possible, including recommending time and timing for possible sales. The companies currently under assessment will be presented jointly by the Stortinget on 19 April. Hedstrom’s starting point was the answer we gave to the Advance Party. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e436	That was a clear speech. For the media have provided information that there could be opportunities for a separate proposition regarding the knowledge centre. Now I know the Government's position here and now. The IT Fornebu project has been somewhat delayed, especially due to the regulatory plans in the municipality of Bærum. However, 10,000 m2 of activity has been developed and 30 000 m2 of activity has been developed. However, the final framework for IT Fornebu has not been established, because the overall plan of the municipality of Bærum has not yet been established. Does not the Council of State think that the overall framework for this centre should be clear, and that part of the vision should also be realised before considering sales or sales? This is precisely when you will be able to get back greater values from what the country has put in – for the benefit of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e446	My starting point for all companies, including companies that have to have special visions, will be the combination of a goal of possible sales and a timing. The situation on Fornebu – where I have been and looked up to several times since I changed my job – suggests that this is not exactly the time to make a sale, if you wish. My job is to create the best possible situation out of the reality you're surrounded by. I have no intention, as owner, of putting special leads or giving signals about the regulatory problems that might be there. It's not my job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e453	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e456	Many of us who were critical of the establishment of IT fornebu, feared a further centralisation in the country by bringing together the IT competence in the central eastern region, and that the rest of the country would have to suffer in a way, as there is a limited number who have that kind of competence. The questions to the Council of State are: Do you have any experience with this so far? And do you have any readiness to strengthen the IT environment in other parts of the country, if this centralisation is done as some have feared?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e463	Ryan and I shared our views on how to use – not to say not to use – the state's funds to go into the IT Fornebu project. The size would be different. I have to deal with that. So to the question of what effects this has, and whether it has had the centralizing effect that some of us feared. The situation out there is probably so that you can't exactly say that it has been like a magnet on those who are in the industry. There are many empty locations out there, and there are problems in the company. But you shouldn't ignore that this is going to turn around. Of course, for the values the state has in the company, we get hope of that. However, the Ministry of Economic Affairs does not have a contingency plan in preparation for the ‘suck’ that could occur if it should go a little better, or for when things go bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e470	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e473	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. The Nordic system operators' cooperation secretariat, Nordel, has created a new power forecast for the Nordic region. This shows that a dry year of 1996 can lead to large zonal power dissipations. But before you get that far, you will experience a strong growth in power prices. We can get strange and higher power prices. At the same time, the power-consuming industry is switching from policy-defined power contracts to market-based contracts. This may seem very negative for this important industry in Norway. Stream is an important framework for this industry. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Industry what measures the Government will take to secure the Norwegian industry and industry, and how to secure a secure power supply and cheap power for this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e482	As the representative Akselsen suggested, the situation in the power market – given that we have a so-called dry year, as in 1996 – can be significantly more difficult than has been the case in recent years. Of course, with the situation that is, it will lead to an increase in power prices. Large demand and little supply could, of course, have meaning. The most important thing is to make sure that we have the highest possible range. And the representative Akselsen is well aware of what we're trying to do on a broad front, among other things. relative to gas power stations. So the questioner relates this to the powerful industry, and he asked what to do to secure the power supply and to secure cheap power. Let me put it this way: we currently have no action in progress that would mean that someone would get particularly cheap electricity. I can't see that would be necessary either. I hope that we can get both a Nordic and a European power market as soon as possible so that Norwegian industry will also have more opportunities to buy electricity from elsewhere than from Norwegian power plants. I think it is important that we contribute to maximum development, of course within environmentally sound frameworks, and get a range, but not least exchanges between our Nordic and European neighbours.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e489	I am pleased that at least the Right confirms that gas power plants are still an important part. I can't quite see that the Government has helped something special in the future. Last year the electricity prices in Norway rose by 80 pst. Many of us private customers notice that. The industry notices it to a lesser extent, because they have long contracts for which prices are intended politically. That situation will disappear. In the future, the price of electricity can increase much more than he did last year. It is strange, then, that the Minister of Industry has not thought about the situation that will arise. I agree that if one had got a European power market where everyone put on the same line, this could have been a minor problem. Unfortunately, it seems that the Nordics will have their own power market because of a lack of transmission capacity from the rest of the European power market, which means that prices will be higher in Norway and Sweden than they are elsewhere in Europe. This means that this industry, which is big in Norway, is getting worse conditions here than the industries they compete with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e496	The representative Aksensen said it was strange that the Minister of Industry had not thought that there could be a different situation than it has been since 1996. Then I would say that I do not consider anything other than what Minister of Energy Aksenssen did until a short time ago, as far as the policy in this area is concerned. In the case of long-term contracts, business is not cut off from having it in the future. There are not just spot contracts you need to make. The government's fixed prices are disappearing, but this does not mean that industry and powerful industries are closing off long-term contracts. It is done so far all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e503	There will be follow-up questions – Aud Gaundal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e506	At the NHO Annual Conference on 8 January this year, the Council of State asked what he intended to contribute to business. He gave a fairly clear answer, and it was that he did not intend to stand in the way of business. I saw it as a principle that business would get it as they wanted. In Meråker in Nord-Trøndelag stands approx. 150 jobs in direct danger of closure, if Elektem shuts down the melting plant. My questions are: does not standing in the way of business mean that the government should be passive in relation to what is happening in Meråker? And is it not appropriate to discuss framework conditions to help the melting plant survive?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e514	First of all, not to stand in the way of business, as I said at the NHO Annual Conference. I said that in my job as Minister of Industry, I wanted to start with the same business policy as I did as rapporteur. At least I'm going to help move those who have to stand in the way of healthy and sensible development. Only that in itself is a significant task. In relation to Elkem in Meråker, Hydro, SAS and other companies that carry out conversions due to commercial and market conditions, I will continue the policy that has been pursued throughout the 1990s, in particular by the Workers' Party, which is based on non-participation and other reasonable adjustments. Because it would have been so that each conversion would be completed if you had the authorities in your back to help that would not happen. Many of the changes take place mainly because there is a need for restructuring in the business world, and it has to be taken note of. That it has some local consequences, which are unpleasant to them, I'm the first one to admit, and we also have a system to ensure that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e521	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e524	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. I intend to follow up on it with state ownership. The right does not hide its desire to privatize, and the Council of State here today states that it may be relevant to turn Statkraft into an AS, and then maybe also to privatize the company. Some hundred years ago, some central and forward-looking politicians – they were the right left-wing people – kept the hydropower as a national resource in this country, among others. through a concession law and through the right of repatriation of the State. Many of us view hydropower as a national resource, as the resource of society. There are two things that guarantee it today. One is that the state owns 100 pst. of the shares in Statkraft, and the second is that we have a right of repatriation to the public. Now the ESA is attacking the right of return, and wants it removed, while the Right is attacking Statkraft. My question is quite simply: how does the Council of State view the possibility of retaining hydropower as a national resource if the right to fall back is lost and State power is sub-privatized?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e535	The representative Arnstad withdraws the lines a hundred years ago, and it's very interesting to read about the political struggle that took place in this room led by Left-Captain Gunnar Knudsen in relation to the concession laws, and what was then the situation. The debate at that time, of course, had a day-to-day curtain. I think you're also wise to read your story and see what you did, and what you meant initially, in relation to this. I think at least you should be willing to open your eyes even in the present. Now I'm aware that the Center Party has a greater degree of propensity to read about the magnitude of the past than to look at the situation today, but I think it's important both to have the historical lines and to look forward to it. Let me put it this way: we haven't said that the partial privatization of State power is determined. We're going to have an assessment of this. I have recorded in the general debate that the company itself thinks this would be a possible way to go. I think we should recognise that this is not a very simple matter in connection with this case concerning sales and the right to return. It's not an easy thing to let go of. But it's not like there's no alternative ways to get the value of our footfalls on than through whole-time state companies. Taxation, charging, of these resources is an alternative way to go, where full compensation can be provided for what may be lost in relation to a possible change in the system of rights of return.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e542	I agree that history is interesting, it is among other things. to read about how a secured national interest in relation to foreign participations. I also find it interesting in the historical sense to see that history often repeats itself. What worries me is that the eagerness in the Right after selling down state shares seems to be so overwhelming that it may overshadow the sense and consideration of central national interests. The minimum ownership of the State must not be an objective in itself. It would have been a fairly dogmatic attitude, and ‘dogmatic’ is something that the Right usually tries to label as a prejudice on the Center Party. So my supplementary question has to be about this round we've had today, actually contributes to the Council of State recognising that State power is in a very special situation, and that a combination of the lapse of home-fall rights and the partial privatization of State power can degrade essential national interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e547	I think it should at least be assumed that no matter what solution we choose, and the Storting chooses, national interests underpin the assessments and conclusions. And then there is more than one solution that takes care of national interests. I assume that when former government councils both from the Central Party and the Workers' Party had views on this related to Telenor and Statoil, partial privatisations were not proposed for the sake of the foreign owners who mainly bought the shares we sold, but of course for the sake of the companies and the wealth of the Norwegian people are located in these companies. And then it's not like if you pick one solution, you're a national romantic, and if you pick the other one, you're an extreme liberalist. We have a responsibility to maintain the value that lies there, and there is more than one answer to how it can be done. The answer from this government comes on 19 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e554	We go to the next main question, which is the last one. There will be no additional questions other than what the lead developer himself had to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e559	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question. In the last few days, we've seen an example of a culture of unculture and greed in a company called SAS. This company, known to the Minister of Finance, is 14.3 pst. owned by the Norwegian State. This company has over a billion dollars in minus this year, the worst result in the company's history. They must fire more than 3000 employees in the company because of a lack of earnings. At the same time, they choose to give part of their leaders more than 20 million. kr i bonus. I could imagine hearing the finance minister's view of the board's discretion when you're able to give $20 million. kr in bonus, when presenting the worst results to SAS. Does the Minister of Finance think that this was a wise decision by the board?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e570	No, I don't think so. I think that the board's bonus schemes in SAS have weakened the company's trust and credibility in relation to the people most, especially in a situation where you have faced quite significant path limitations, terminations and permitations. And a company that provides services is more than many others dependent on being in tune with people most. Let me put it this way: the weakest expression I can use about what's been done is that it was extremely unmusical.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e575	I am very pleased with the musical answer from the Minister of Finance, and then let me follow up with the following: Both the finance minister and I agree that this was an unimaginable misapprehension of the board. The former SAS board also showed that they had misrepresentation, and that board was sacked because they had entered into an agreement with Maersk on market sharing. So the new board – which has not worked for very long – has in a short time been able to show that they have just as poor discretion as the former board. Would it be appropriate for the Norwegian Government, together with other Nordic owners of SAS, if necessary, to take the initiative to ensure that this regime does not continue, that it should be replaced, simply because, in a situation that requires a little statesmanship, it has shown the opposite, namely that greed culture is the most important thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e582	I think the most important challenge for the board today is not to show statesmanship, but to show business sense, i.e. better company performance. It's definitely the biggest challenge. I'm a little surprised that the questioner doesn't show that this is a company where the states are in majority. It might show that ownership does not necessarily ensure a popularly practiced good judgment. But the government has no plans to replace the government. The board is faced with huge tasks, and I have some confidence that the board also records the popular reactions to the awards, not least among the employees of the company itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e590	If the President is allowed to make a comment, it must be that further investment in cultural schools in this country will make us get more musical leaders in the future, and then everything would be fine. The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e597	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 2 and 3 from representatives Julie Christiansen and Morten Höglund respectively to the Minister for Foreign Affairs were moved and answered at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on question 8. Question 4, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen to the Minister for Culture and the Church, will be taken up by the representative Karin W. Woldseth. Question 9, from the representative Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Culture and the Church, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 15, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade, who will direct him. Question No 16, by Mr Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 19, from the representative Heidi Sørensen to the Minister for Transport, falls, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e616	There will always be some concern in the Chamber when the oral questioning procedure is over, but in respect of those who are to answer the first questions, the President asks for the withdrawal to take place silently.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e623	I will ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘In the ordinary Question Time of the Storting on 7 November 2001, Mr Bastesen asked the Prime Minister for the emissions of technetium 99 from Sellafield. The Prime Minister said, among other things: this: ‘... we will seek all possible means to achieve and prevent aggravation of this situation’. What has the Prime Minister done to get a meeting with his colleague Tony Blair, in order to make it clear that the emissions of Sellafield will not be accepted by the Norwegian side?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e632	So from the first day, the cooperative government has increased the pressure on the British government to stop the emissions of technetium 99 from Sellafield. As early as October 2001, the matter was raised at ministerial level during the EU Environment Ministerial Meeting in Luxembourg between the Nordic Environment Ministers and the UK Environment Minister. The matter has since been followed up bilaterally during the Minister of Environment’s visit to the United Kingdom, including the plant itself, last December. At the meeting with the British Minister for the Environment in London, the Prime Minister's office was also represented. The British Government has no doubts as to what Norway and the other Nordic countries mean. I have also brought this up myself with my Nordic Prime Minister colleagues. The majority itself has had the opportunity to express Norwegian views during the visit of the Energy and Environment Committee to the United Kingdom last month. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has raised the matter in bilateral talks, and the matter is raised on all appropriate occasions in our political contacts with the United Kingdom. The owners of Sellafield will now apply to the UK authorities to try out a new treatment method for precipitation and landfill on land of technetium 99. Contact with the United Kingdom at expert level has begun. This is positive. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs assesses legal aspects of emissions and the Minister for the Environment will deal with the European Commission’s Environment Commissioner Wallström this month. We will also use the North Sea Conference in Bergen next month. I have hopes that the matter will find a technically and politically acceptable solution in the light of the efforts that have been made, and the close follow-up to which the Government has submitted. As Norwegian Prime Minister, I have regular and close contact with other European Heads of Government. It has been actively working to find the time for a meeting with my British colleague Tony Blair. In such a meeting, we will discuss a number of important bilateral and international issues of common interest for our two countries. Of course, Sellafield will be among these. I also want to look for a conversation with Blair in the international forum where we're both present. Even I am scheduled to attend the United Nations Conference on Financing in Mexico this March. The British participation in the conference, as far as I know, has not yet been clarified. If Prime Minister Blair were to be present, this too could be an opportunity to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e656	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, and I note that there has been no contact at Prime Minister level, but that in the near future it will be sought. In his previous reply, the Prime Minister said that, among other things: At the level of the Minister for the Environment and Prime Minister, we should maintain and strengthen our commitment in this area. I understand that you'll try to do it now. The United Kingdom’s signals are in the direction of allowing Sellafield to release around 90 terrabecquerel technetium 99 per year. years in the sea until 2006. Such an emission will take 213,000 years to halve, i.e. the release will remain in the environment for the foreseeable future. This will be a mystery that is impossible to reverse. What will the Government do if Sellafield receives this emission permit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e665	Let me first say that I share with the representative Swensen's concern about what such emissions will mean. There is also the background to the fact that the Co-operation Administration has – I say – shown a very strong commitment to its pressure against the British authorities and by taking this up in other forums to prevent such emissions. This is also largely about parts of our own food tank, food resources in the sea, which Norway and not least the coastal population depend on not being contaminated. I can promise the representative Swensen that we will continue our engagement. So there are some points of light in the situation that might make it possible to find a solution, and, as I said, we also assess the legal aspects of emissions – the issue of case – if one does not find a satisfactory solution in any other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e672	I thank you again for the answer from the Prime Minister. I just want to make it clear that the Coastal Party, for its part, will keep an eye on this matter, because it is about our future, and not just our future, but the future and the basis of life of our descendants in the foreseeable future. Think if we had used the precautionary principle in relation to PCB! Then we might have released dietary restrictions in 27 Norwegian ports and fjords because we didn't know better. So, like the Prime Minister, I don't want any experiments to be made on emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e681	The Co-operation Board shares the commitment of the Coastal Party and also largely the assessment of the impact of these emissions. We believe they will be able to represent a danger, even if one could say that one has not so far reached a directly hazardous level of emissions. In the case of a meeting with Prime Minister Blair, it is absolutely my intention. We've been working for a while to get it done, and we're going to keep doing it. And we're not going to give up until we get to bring this up with my British Prime Minister's colleague.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e688	Questions 2 and 3 will be addressed in the context of Question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e694	This question, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen to the Minister of Culture and the Church, will be raised by the representative Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e697	‘The Council of State has probably recorded that the construction of new operas is becoming significantly more expensive than previously assumed. Three, seven billion. NOK is now assumed to be the new price tag. When Stortinget adopted the opera project, there was a cost estimate of 1.8 billion. kr. How can the Council of State defend the further progress of the project in the light of these enormous exceedances when considering the alternatives to which these amounts can be used?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e704	The new opera house in Bjørvika will be a house for the whole country. It's high time we got an opera house in Norway. When the discussion with even spaces comes up if we should spend money on an opera house, I remind you that in the kingdom of Norway, we actually spend little money on cultural buildings in total. We have little to show in relation to other countries it's natural to compare ourselves with. It's not that it's the government funds for culture that prevent us from achieving other good purposes in our country. The cost estimate presented by Stortinget in the 1999 operaproposal was a base estimate, a cost estimate, of DKK 1.8 billion in 1999 prices. After the architectural competition, a new estimate of costs was drawn up, which Stortinget was briefed on in the budgetproposal for 2000. The new estimate was 2 050 million. kr, also in the 1999 price level. In addition, it was suggested that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Labour and Administration, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, could provide a reserve for the 110 million project. kr. This gave an upper cost estimate for the project development of 2160 million. SEK in 1999 prices. In the 1999 operaproposition, it was also noted that the real price growth in the construction market is the basis for the price conversion. Consequently, the operaproposal to be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2002 will be based on an estimate that is actually price-converted to 2002 figures. In addition, there should be a set of uncertainties. This was the Stortinget on the clean with during the handling of the case in 1999. On the establishment of a cost framework, the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs gave its opinion on the plurality of the Family, Cultural and Administrative Committee: ‘The majority have noted that the declared cost estimates at the current stage therefore contain too much uncertainty and do not include the reserves/margins that must have a binding cost framework, so that they can only be promoted by the Storting after the project has been developed. The majority join this.» I don't want to go into any number discussion today. It is the opera proposition that will be presented to the Stortinget in spring, which will provide the basis for the further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e720	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think exactly this with numbers is starting to become quite significant when we hear about the exceedances. Let's go that there was an estimate of a little over 2 billion kroner, but what we see now is a building of 3.7 billion, which it can end up as, and then neither infrastructure nor roads are included. What this price will be in 2008 is still uncertain. When does Stortinget get a case that shows the reason why the estimates do not last? And when do we get a new and real cost estimate, including infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e729	First, I would like to stress that when the Stortinge dealt with this matter in 1999, it was important for the Stortinge to keep the opera project separate from the infrastructure, together with urban development. What's my job is to get to Stortinget with the real costs after a pre-project is completed, which we're now doing. During the spring, the representative will get these numbers on the table, and then the Storting will decide on the further implementation of the opera project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e734	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Getting an opera house to NOK 3.7 billion upsets large parts of the Norwegian people when there are so many unsolved tasks elsewhere in society, both in the care of the elderly, health and school. The price tag of an opera building will probably end up below DKK 5 billion in 2008 and will benefit a very small proportion of the Norwegian population. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State finally: does the Council of State consider finding a cheaper alternative, possibly a different location, or possibly freezing the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e743	Firstly, in the supplementary question from the representative, Woldseth, there are some conclusions that at least I can't draw yet – both that the price should be NOK 3.7 billion, and that one finally ends up with NOK 5 billion. This is what we're coming back to Stortinget with. The second is that Karin S. Woldseth says that there are very few who will enjoy the opera building. Then I would like to remind the representative that this building will have great consequences for the entire opera life of Norway. It is important to decentralize an effect relative to the fact that the resources being deployed there will have ringing effects in all the areas in Norway where we already have different operating setups. In addition, travel will lead to the joy of this opera building in other parts of Norway. The silver built is in Oslo, but the consequences and the ringing effects of the districts are going to be great. There is also a basis for the entire project. So I want to remind you that I thought, as I also said in my first answer, that we actually use little in culture building in Norway. Now, when we're building an opera building that will be standing as a monument for many decades and probably for hundreds of years to come, it's important that it is done in a proper way. It can certainly afford Norway, as well as doing many of the other unsolved tasks. I remind you that over the last few years, we have spent over 30 billion dollars on care for the elderly. That's good, but we also have to be able to spend a few billion on an opera building.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e756	I have a question for the minister of the church. We're changing the theme, and we're changing the transmitters: ‘Two priests in Finnmark have been removed from their posts by way of dismissal. The priests won the first court-martial, but lost to the law. Destiny was justified by the fact that the priests did not accept their bishop and stood firm in their view of homophilia. Kautokeino is one of the congregations concerned. The parish council wants the parish priest reinstated. Will the Council of State take an initiative so that the congregation is heard in its desire to regain its former parish priest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e765	The former parish priest in Kautokeino was dismissed from office at the Halogaland Court of Law in January last year. In May, the Supreme Court refused to grant its right of appeal to the Supreme Court. The judgment is thus enforceable. An important part of the renunciation was that the parish priest rejected supervision from the bishop. That he got dismissed because of his view of homophilia, gets to stand as the representative of Sortevik's point of view. I don't think the freedom of speech in Norway is so bad that a court would accept the rejection of a priest with such a foundation. A consequence of the judgment was the loss of the priests' rights, i.e. the right to provide services as a priest in the Norwegian Church. The presbytery may be given back in some circumstances, but the Council of Churches cannot grant any right to be a priest without the advice of the bishop. Otherwise, let me remind you that it is not the ministry, but the Council of Bishops who added priests to the Church of Norway, and that socne priests are never appointed without the permission of the Socne Council to comment on who the Seekers would like to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e776	I thank you for your answer. I would first like to remind you that it is possible to take political initiatives in almost all cases, if you want to. There have been many temporary workers in the post as a parish priest after the former parish priest was removed. After I have been informed, the office has been announced many times without the arrival of the applicants. Last January, a year ago, with the unanimous recommendation of the Council of Ministers, a parish priest applied for the loan of the Kautokeino Church to worship. This was rejected by the bishop. The Sem Declaration has a formulation to emphasise Church independence on spiritual issues and the transfer of greater responsibility to church bodies. It can work like this only applies on top. It may seem as if it is only at the top of the Norwegian Church that it is to be accepted for independence and tolerance. It should probably also be important for the Council of Churches that the Church gets its way locally. There is doubt about the handling of this matter, where a local community council still wants the same parish priest, contributes to the creation of an active, independent and participatory people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e785	I agree that we want to transfer more power to the Church itself. That's precisely why it would be wrong for me to intervene in this matter. In fact, here are the church bodies that have assessed the situation. I would like to remind you that I cannot intervene without the advice of the bishop, if any, to do so. I thought it was right that it should go that way. It must come as a recording from the bishop to me if I'm to intervene. The second is that when an added parish priest does not do it, the government or the King does it – it does it in the individual episcopal judgments. They always listen to what the sock council itself says in relation to who wants. This is the freedom which the Church will have, and which I will not intervene in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e792	For a long time, a significant part of the believing congregation in Kautokeino has gathered about words and sacraments in the prayer house in Kautokeino. Therefore, a useful alternative to reinstatement is a system that I understand to be called a Danish model, a system of choice that gives members of the congregation the right to call, hire and pay their own pastor and to use the church house in close agreement. Can the Council of State envisage taking the initiative – for this is the case – to put in place a test scheme according to such a rewritten Danish model, in order to meet the strong desire of the congregation to be a congregation under its former parish priest?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e797	I can imagine going in and looking at that matter. I know that the last time we joined the government, we also worked on alternative supervisory models. I would like to take the initiative to look at this matter – it has cured death while there has been another government. However, I cannot take the initiative to return my rights. Then I am dependent on the church organ itself asking for it. But looking at an alternative supervisory model, I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e807	Then we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e813	This question, from Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e816	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘In some parts of Oslo, multilingual assistants are now removed from kindergartens for economic reasons. This makes it difficult, among other things. contact with non-Norwegian parents. Will the Council of State help to continue to become multilingual assistants in multicultural kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e825	I want to answer this question on behalf of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. First, I want to underline the importance of a qualitatively good childcare facility that does not exclude a child because of price, low expansion or other factors. This also applies to children with a minority language background. I find it, therefore, very worrying if it is that the provision to children with a minority language background is being reduced to some parts of the city for economic reasons. Local authorities have chosen different solutions to organise the provision of children with a minority language background. The state favours a private contribution that covers part of the costs of kindergartens when a bilingual assistant has been added. All of the approved kindergartens that have added bilingual assistants are entitled to this supplement, and we spend about 80 million. kr annually for the purpose. The bilingual assistant shall work to ensure that children understand and understand and shall further contribute to cultural dissemination and integration into the community in kindergarten. No change has been made to this incentive scheme to make children's homes or municipalities worse. If economic conditions make it necessary to reduce the number of bilingual assistants in kindergartens in Oslo, this must come from the municipal co-financing of such services. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has been in contact with the County of Oslo and Akershus and the Municipality of Oslo to be briefed on the problem. Nowhere were they aware that poor finances lead to a reduction in the number of bilingual assistants. There's a lot of attention around the situation for minority speakers in Norway today. A well-organised childcare facility can represent a good start for these children, and we should be advised to cover the additional costs that it can bring. Over several years, we have focused on the design of childcare facilities for minority language children. The trial of free short-term provision for all four and five-year-olds in Old Oslo is our biggest project, and an evaluation that comes in these days suggests that this attempt has been successful. We are now working intensively to evaluate how the experience of this experiment should be followed up. Elles, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will follow developments in Oslo when it comes to bilingual assistants in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e840	I would like to thank you for an answer that also shows that the government is engaged in kindergartens where there are multicultural children. I would also like to ask that a concrete initiative be taken in the urban areas where these multilingual assistants are threatened with dismissal or removal, in order not to happen, on the basis that there is a state grant scheme for these assistants. I will personally brief the Council of State on what urban areas this is all about. I would also like to stress that communication between parents with a minority language background on the one hand and kindergarten and school on the other is extremely important. It is an essential part of the long-term integration policy in large cities such as Oslo, with large concentrations of this type of minority language children, where some schools and kindergartens have a very large proportion of minority-speaking children. I would therefore ask the Council of State and the Government to take such an initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e847	Of course, I will pass that on to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. I would also like to stress that it has been quite a hard job to get access to all the children of the project we have had in the interior of Oslo. In order to have children available for free in kindergartens, one actually had to go to the homes and knock on every door. It says a little that the contact between parents and kindergarten, as also the representative Nybakk recalls, is very important for parents to see what resources they are missing if they do not use the provision that is made for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e854	It is not least important when it comes to communication with the mothers of children. And in the light of the current debate, among others. It is even more important to get that contact with mothers at an early stage, at the kindergarten stage, about coerciveness and cultural issues, i.e. cultural collisions, where we also experience the suppression of young girls. Now, with the population share of minority groups, this is also an important criterion in relation to the income system — or it should be. So I would encourage the Council of State and the Government to look at the income system in relation to introducing criteria that improve the conditions of minority-speaking children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e861	I'm also going to bring with me that recording, which is probably going to the Minister of Municipal Affairs and not to the Minister of Children and Family Affairs. Overall, this is an important task for the Government. The government is also working with plans to further develop this test project in Old Oslo, because we have seen that it has been successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e868	Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e874	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘There is currently a high demand for organically produced food in Norway. Farmers who produce organic milk are paid 60 øre more per year. litres than that paid for ordinary milk. However, this does not apply to farmers in North Norway, Namdalen, Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland. What will the Council of State do to enable all farmers who so wish to be supplied with organic milk to be used in organic food?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e883	The year 2001 was a positive year for the development of organic farming. First of all, we got a significant increase in the number of farmers who add organic farming. Secondly, several market actors, both processing companies and food chains, have become more involved in the marketing of organic products. TINE Norske Meierierier is one of those who took a force in 2001 through a relaunch of organic milk. The relaunch has resulted in a significant increase in the marketing of organic milk, and per. the need for organic milk for processing is now greater than production. At the same time, it is such that approx. 50 pst. however, organic milk production is in the ‘conventional tank’, i.e. it is sold as conventional milk. This is done because many organic dairy farms are so scattered that the cost of picking up the island farm – which needs to be picked up on its own line – is too large. In order to reduce collection costs and get more targeted efforts, TINE has decided from 2002 to define specific areas of activity, or clusters, for organic milk production. This is done by giving TINE to the producers of eco-milk within the bet areas an extra price of 60 øre. The additional price here is part of the internal strategy of TINE and not part of the government grant scheme for organic producers. TINE and other actors are allowed to take advantage of an additional price in the organic product market. However, the premium is an important part of the economy of organic producers. Here, producers must obtain price agreements with the buyers of milk, or even process the raw materials. We have a goal of ten pst. the agricultural area shall be organically farmed by 2010. I'm concerned that we're going to achieve this goal. I also want organic farming to be possible throughout Norway. We are trying best to facilitate this through the subsidy schemes for organic producers, as well as through other support, for example: for advice, guidance and information. The ecological area currently accounts for approx. 2.6 pst. of the total agricultural area in Norway. The organic production volume is therefore low. As a consequence, there are a number of bottlenecks related to developing the marketing of organic production. In particular, it is a challenge to find a cost-effective and rational logistics system to bring together the existing organic production. In today's situation, therefore, there is a clear need for a rapid increase in organic production volumes if we are to achieve our objectives. In my view, it is also important to stress that the increase in organic production in the future takes place in such a way that the greatest possible amount of production actually reaches the consumer as organic products. If the major market players are to be concerned with organic products, the TINE grips are now completely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e894	I am glad that the Council of State is still concerned that we are going to achieve the target of 10 pst. organic food production. I'm also very happy that we now get numbers that show that the demand for organic food is greater than ever. You can't actually have enough organic food in the shelves. And then it becomes a paradox that farmers who produce organic milk, who actually believe in this, must mix this with ordinary milk. In my own region, which is Namdalen, we have a dairy that produces organic cheese, white cheese, and there it is that farmers who belong near that dairies, called Kolvereid Dairy, are not allowed to deliver the milk there. So they have to deliver the milk to another dairy that produces cheese in an old-fashioned way, conventionally. I hope the Council of State can take the initiative that the kind of examples, which are probably not unique, in a way does not repeat themselves too often, because it makes no sense for farmers who believe in organic production to see that the milk is actually not used for what it was intended to do. My question will be whether the Council of State, together with the industry, can take the initiative to change this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e903	Let me first underline that it is important for the Government to work for what is the task of authority, to ensure that we meet the goal of 10 pst. And we do that in many ways. In addition, fortunately, there is now a surplus of demand for eco-milk, and the limits on the possibility of charging prices set by the agricultural agreement do not apply to organic milk. Here it is allowed to use the market to take a higher price. And fortunately, what TINE is now doing is where they can have so many producers that they can get the economy in this. TINE has informed that they are now willing to open up more areas of activity, as the queryer is looking for. But then it's important to get more people to produce organic milk in these areas, so that there are volumes that can be brought to the market in their own mind in the cars. Our task must be to stimulate more people to do so in these areas, both in the home area of the replica edge and in the home area of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e910	Thanks for the answer. I noticed that State Council Sponheim became very engaged when he began to talk about the possibilities of expanding work on organic milk production. I thought that was a good sign. I believe that at least SV can promise that it is an area we can in the future imagine that we are spending more money on, both stimulating organic production and – not least – doing development work. I am very pleased with the commitment the Council of State shows, and hope that both bodily and verbal commitment is a real expression of what he means.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e919	Yes, it is. And the funny thing -- I'm sure I also share it with the line edge -- is that in meeting many of the new ecological environments in Norway, one also meets some of the new barriers in Norwegian agriculture, which is thinking about the market, which is looking for what consumers are interested in. It is a way of looking at agriculture as food production that we have missed in Norwegian agriculture for a long time. It's not just the romantics, whether I can say it like this – although it's also good to be – who are involved in organic production, but also those who are looking for opportunities for products that consumers are looking for. And that's great. I also think it is important to bear in mind that, in addition to TINE and the large ones, we have our own programmes in the Value Creation Programme for Food Production, precisely to also process organic production, so that those who today feel that they are not reaching the market with their organic products can take their own initiative to develop these opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e929	‘Hedmark County, at the Central Hospital in Hedmark, has been working actively since 1998 to get national mammography screening to the county. For the year 2001, 500 000 kroner were allocated to wage and salary earners for project managers for the planning of start-up in Hedmark 2002. A contract was concluded in 2001 between Hedmark County and the Kreftregister. What can the Council of State do for Health East to follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e936	It has been decided to make mammography screening a nationwide offer to all women between 50 and 69 years of age. 16 of the country’s counties started to develop this offer well during 2001. Hedmark is one of three remaining counties where start-up is planned this year. As mentioned, mammography screening was planned in Hedmark in 2001. Therefore, the National Cancer Plan budget estimated and set aside funds for starting mammography screening in Hedmark County in the current year. It is planned that mammography screening offers will be launched in Hedmark from the autumn of 2002. In the near future, the Ministry of Health will ensure that the necessary appropriations are transferred to Health East, which will put the funds at the disposal of the health business responsible for mammography screening. The Register of Cancer has established the necessary cooperation with regional health establishments to prepare for the start-up of activities. All women between 50 and 69 years of age in Hedmark will be offered mammography screening in line with the other states that have started with such screening.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e947	I was very pleased with the answer, and I thank you for that. It's actually like this -- just a little bit of history -- that twelve years ago the women in Hedmark collected 2.2 million. kr for mammography, and a machine was installed. We know that the most common form of cancer among women is breast cancer. This form of cancer is increasing and also occurs in increasingly younger women. In Hedmark, as in many other places in the country, we view mammography screening as a prevention measure, and that is why it is very important. I can, as I understand it, go back to all the women in Hedmark and say that now the machine starts and becomes a good offer for all the women. Have I understood the Council of State correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e956	My answer was in accordance with what the representative Fallet is now saying. She must go back and bring that message to the target she referred to!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e961	Since I have occasion, I also want to add that investments in technological innovation have been a little bit behind in Hedmark. This also applies to other offers, so I hope that this regionalisation does not mean that Health East will have less opportunities to operate with the investment plans that it had previously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e966	No, on that point I can assure the representative Fallet that the current government and the current Minister of Health are doing their utmost to implement the decision to reorganize the hospitals taken last year by the Stortinget, which was initiated by the then government. It is in the intentions behind this reform that we should be able to use resources even better because we do not have to take into account the borders. And with regard to the investment plans, the government, as previously announced in the government budget, will come back with a outline for investments and their priorities in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e973	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e982	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The daily newspaper of 2 February 2002 reports plans for severe cuts in children’s and young people’s psychiatry in Oslo. Children’s and youth psychiatry is an adopted field of action as part of the adopted psychiatry escalation plan. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the escalation plan is followed, so that health businesses contribute to a strengthening rather than a weakening of child and youth psychiatry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e991	The contingency plan for mental health shall be implemented in line with the Storting decision. State takeover of specialist health services is in the middle of the escalation period, and this facilitates targeted efforts in the development and restructuring of mental health protection. Through the governance document of regional health companies, I have instructed them to give priority to the implementation of the escalation plan in general, and to a focus on mental health protection for children and young people in particular. It has also been made clear that the earmarked grants should be added to and not replaced by the self-financing of mental health by health businesses. This will be followed up with enterprises throughout the year. The action plan for mental health includes strengthening the provision of services both in municipalities and in the specialist health service. The development of services in municipalities is essential to provide good services for children and young people and to reduce demand for specialised services. The Ministry has asked the municipalities to distribute at least 20 pst. of the efforts and earmarked funds for children and young people. Although the escalation plan deals with both measures for children and young people and adults, there is a need to develop an overall strategy for the involvement of children and the mental health of young people. I am not satisfied with the offer we have today. There are not enough places, and the total resources are not always used in the best possible way for those involved. This is the background for me now working on a new strategy. We are also looking at the coherence of the overall service provision in the regions, and that the service provision should be developed more independently of the county boundaries. The management message of the municipalities and of the regional health companies is clear, and I assume that the boards of the regional enterprises follow up on this. In the case of such a large transition as is currently taking place within the specialist health service, there will be uncertainties related to the overall budgetary situation. The size is known to review the budgetary situation in relation to the revised national budget. With regard to the look-up in the Newspaper and in other media, it is largely related to the situation of the former State Centre for Child and Youth Psychiatry and the situation that has developed in the transfer of the Centre to the Municipality of Oslo in 1999. One of the prerequisites for the transfer was that the centre should provide more services to the population of Oslo. In this situation, Health East confirms that, on the basis of the budget decision of the Storting, emphasis is placed on continuing the range of treatment established in 2001, emphasis is placed on improving efficiency through productivity-enhancing measures. Health East has assured me that they are following the escalation plan for mental health, but that the budgetary situation is demanding. I have asked for a detailed explanation of the operational and budgetary realities. It is a major challenge one faces, and I will follow up on the work to ensure that the escalation plan is implemented and that the objectives adopted are achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1002	The daily newspaper has had several headlines related to psychiatry and lack of psychiatric services. It was a look-up on Saturday 26 January that concerned a specific matter. I understand that the Minister of Health will find it difficult to address specific issues, but it was quite a thorough description of a youth who ends up taking his life after he has not received any treatment, or the treatment offer has been so short-lived that he has been in and out of institutions. I believe that the description given there reveals two aspects in particular. There is a lack of understanding about the possible use of drugs and the need to have the same right of treatment to be responsible for the use of drugs. I'm not going to say that was the case in the specific case, but you're going to feel that health professionals can have a dissenting attitude on the basis that you suspect that drugs can be a cause for psychosis. [[The President clubs.]] The other ratio is that approx. 90 pst. by the hospitalisations are emergency hospitalisations. There is too little capacity for bed places. Does the Minister of Health see that the solutions to these two problems need to be found: better bed capacity plus that psychoses triggered by drugs also need to be included in psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1011	I'm probably going to have to subtract the extra time the representative spent, on his next supplementary question!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1014	Excuse me, President! Forgive me!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1019	– and add that time to the corresponding?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1024	It's going as planned!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1027	I have no opportunity to go into individual matters in this way, but let me state in principle the following: When the escalation plan was adopted at Stortinget in 1998, the starting point was failure at all stages of psychiatry, and we know that childhood and youth psychiatry was no exception. It was rather a strong confirmation of this description of the service. Now we're on, now we see that more children and young people get help faster. But we're by no means going forward. There's still a failure in many of the joints. The capacity is not well developed and is not well enough distributed between the specialist service and the more low-threshold measures. At least it should be clear from my point of view that children and young people are very high priorities, and perhaps the highest priority in the implementation of the escalation plan. Otherwise, I just have to say briefly that the right to treatment also applies to people with drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1036	Short supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1039	What is seen in relation to the different health businesses is that decisions can be made or sketched solutions that go completely across the agreed overall plans of the Storting. An example of that is the psychiatry plan. The size of the population has adopted an escalation plan for psychiatry, which provides a strong boost, especially in the case of childhood and youth psychiatry. In my and SV’s view, this makes it evident that the Government is presenting to the Stortinget long-term overall health plans – one might call it a national health plan with approval via Stortinget – to which health businesses must actually relate. This means that even if they are to have room for action to find different approaches to solve what is an adopted task, they may not have a room for action to go their own way in terms of those solutions. Is the Minister for Health understood by the idea of such an overall action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1045	In fact, in this area, we have an overall action plan adopted by Stortinget, and I have explained how very concretely in the governance message of regional enterprises I have instructed them to follow the escalation plan and to ensure that it becomes a stepping-up and that self-employment is not replaced by escalating funds. Health care establishments shall explain this. It is nothing new that in a budgetary process there are proposals that involve cuts both here and there. What is crucial is how the overall supply in the region is developed, and it should be stepped up in line with the Storting assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1052	So we go back to the questions 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1059	‘There is a great danger that the forthcoming presidential elections in Zimbabwe on 9 and 10 March 2002 will not be fair and democratic. EU foreign ministers have warned to impose sanctions on President Mugabe and his closest supporters, if EU electoral observers are prevented from carrying out their mission before and during election days. How will the Government contribute to the international pressure against the regime in Zimbabwe?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1066	Norway is very concerned about the development of Zimbabwe and the increasing violence and harassment of the political opposition in that country. It seems that President Mugabe is willing to use all the means to maintain power. The country's parliament has passed laws that threaten freedom of expression and make it difficult – if not impossible – to make free and fair elections. An important prerequisite for such choices is their monitoring by independent observers. The EU sends as well-known election observers to Zimbabwe and is prepared to impose sanctions on President Mugabe and his closest supporters if obstacles are placed in the way of the activities of observers. Since 1997, Norway has expressed concern at the increasingly poor conditions for democracy and human rights in Zimbabwe. We have in a series of inquiries sought to influence Mugabe to change course. Early in 1998, we proposed Norwegian aid primarily to strengthen human rights and contribute to political diversity. When we saw no improvement, the government decided last year to stop all state to state-aid. Both the Development Minister and I have taken up the serious situation in Zimbabwe with both African leaders, with central EU countries and in international forums. As late as yesterday, I took this up in my meeting with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Zambia. The election campaign in Zimbabwe has now begun. The opposition insists that they make elections, and has great faith that their candidate, Morgan Tsvangirai, will win. They are asking for continued international pressure to contribute to the fairest possible choice. They request that as many countries as possible send independent observers to monitor the choice. Norway has received an official invitation from President Mugabe to send election observers. The first group of four Norwegian observers arrived in Zimbabwe yesterday and will cooperate with EU observers. We aim to send additional Norwegian observers this week towards the elections. In addition, we support election observers from regional organisations and independent groups in Zimbabwe. Norwegian authorities are in close contact with the EU as regards both observers and the issue of possible penalties. The people of Zimbabwe are now faced with a choice of fate, a choice in which violence and threats are used to suppress the free will of the people. We expect the government of Zimbabwe to bring down the violence and harassment of the opposition and allow independent observers to monitor the elections. Something else would be alarming. Should such a situation arise, Norway will need to carefully consider further steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1087	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, and I am pleased that Norway is now stepping up the pressure against the regime in Zimbabwe, and that we are now present with election observers in the country. The Zimbabwe Minister for Foreign Affairs stated on Monday that EU election observers, led by the Swedish UN Ambassador, should not be accepted as anything other than tourists and that they are not accredited as election observers. Would the election observers be able to perform their task without being accredited as election observers of Zimbabwe?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1096	The question that Julie Christiansen is now raising is very serious: the observers who should be in the country have problems in carrying out their mission in such a way that we want them to be able to do, and which is the precondition for saying that the elections are being properly conducted. It is therefore necessary to put considerable pressure on Zimbabwe to allow a sufficient number of observers to work, and Norway has to exert pressure in this respect for itself. We have an ongoing assessment of the situation, and the representative can be absolutely sure that Norway will not be able to legitimise a choice if we do not feel reasonably sure that the job can be done properly. We are therefore very close to the EU and will once again encourage the authorities of Zimbabwe to allow observers to do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1108	If the elections are held now, the outcome could be more violence and further negative developments in the democratic and human rights situation in Zimbabwe. One can imagine a flow of refugees from Zimbabwe to neighbouring countries. In short, Mugabe represents in many ways a threat to development in its own country. Opinion polls now suggest that the opposition party «Movement for Democratic Change» could have received 70 pst. by the votes cast. Is it current policy to seek to push the international community to postpone the implementation of the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1115	I think the most important thing now is to press Zimbabwe to make the elections in such a way that the voice of the people can also be expressed in the result. That's exactly what we're doing right now, and so the outside world needs to put a considerable pressure on it. It is therefore serious that Zimbabwe is hindering a number of EU observers. I do not think a postponement in itself will lead to a solution to this fundamental problem, but it is also this fundamental problem that needs to be underlined. It's a very unfortunate situation we're up in. We know very well that there is a connection between a democratic and open society and the possibility of moving a society forward and bringing wealth to all its inhabitants. That's why the development we've seen in Zimbabwe for years, is a very sad and very negative development, and that's why we have so much commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1123	‘Norway today has free trade agreements with the applicant countries for fish to the EU. These are the risks we run out of the day the candidate countries become members. The Icelandic Presidencies of EFTA therefore aim to look at new opportunities to improve our access to the EU market for fish. Would it not now be natural for us, in the context of the EU's work on extending the EEA Agreement to trade in fish and fish products?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1130	The free trade agreements of the EFTA countries with the ACs to the EU provide customs freedom for exports of all fishery products to these countries. When the candidate countries join the EU, the free trade agreements will fall to the benefit of the EEA Agreement. However, the EEA Agreement does not ensure full customs freedom for Norwegian fish exports. Under Protocol 9 to the Agreement, there is a duty-free regime for a number of white fish products, while for example: herring, mackerel, salmon and shrimp are not covered by customs duty. It is therefore a key challenge for Norway to find the most satisfactory solution for trade in fish and fish products to an enlarged EU. The potential for increased trade in seafood within the enlarged EU and the EEA is high and it is crucial to ensure the best possible framework conditions for future trade with the EU. It will also be of great importance for the candidate countries, which are major consumers of Norwegian raw materials in their growing processing industry, to have the best possible import regime for Norwegian fish. It is the government's clear starting point that enlargement of the EU must not create new customs barriers. Both the Prime Minister, the Minister for Fisheries and I have therefore raised the issue of market access for fish in both the central EU capitals and with the European Commission. Last week I discussed this issue with the EU Commission Vice-President, Loyola de Palacio, who was visiting Oslo. However, it is obvious that we are facing major challenges. A solution must be found by the entry into force of the EU enlargement, which will take place in 2004 or 2005. The government is now working on a detailed approach to these negotiations and will consult the bodies of the Storing in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1145	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that it is a complicated question, and that it is not an easy way to go. As I see it, there will be a need for the Norwegian authorities to have an active strategy related to these issues, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs also explained. Can the Council of States confirm that Norway is now following this up with all existing EU capitals, and not least also affecting the main places in the candidate countries, which may also be assisting in such a process?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1152	I can absolutely confirm that Norway is trying where we are, to address this very important issue and to prepare the basis for the negotiations that need to be held. I therefore ensure that there is a standard feature at least in my conversations in European capitals. But I fully agree with Morten Höglund that this is a very complicated question. He would also like to know that the European Commission has stated that even a technical update of the EEA Agreement does not now have time on this side of enlargement. But this is a question that needs to be resolved, and Morten Höglund can be sure that the Government will design an active strategy and that we will consult the organs of the Storting. I'm putting particular emphasis on the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1157	I thank you again for the answer. The signals from the EU have been negative, and it is understood that the EU can have more than enough with the process it is now involved in. Although the EU should push on this issue after the enlargement of the EU in 2004–2005, it may be no more than the time and the way for us to have a high level of commitment to these issues, so that as soon as possible we can include the remaining areas for fish in our agreements with the whole of the new EEA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1162	I fully agree that this is not all the world's time at hand. Enlargement will come in 2004 or 2005, and I believe that we must have a solution to this problem before this enlargement takes place, so that the industry does not get worse conditions in the course of enlargement. That's why it's just the time and the way we have here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1167	So we go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1174	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘Students in vocational education do not receive a certificate of formal education in the last two years of secondary education. As a result, they do not receive discounts on public transport. Apprentices are paid a little for the value-creating part of the training, but their secondary course is indebted for four years. Youth under education should have equal access to reasonable travel. How will the Council of State amend the legislation in order to make apprentices equal to the other students receiving secondary education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1183	Under the applicable rules of the Training Act, only students and not apprentices are entitled to free of charge. Persons taking professional courses of study are subject to the provisions on dandruff when they are trained in school and have the status of pupils. When they become apprentices, they are not covered by the definition of ‘student’ in the law and are therefore not entitled to free showers. The apprentices receive wages in their apprenticeships. This is an issue which is contrary to the fact that they are given the same right to vote as students, and probably the reason why this has been the case since Reform 94 was introduced. Because apprenticeships are located more widely and are available in a much larger number than secondary schools, cloud ownership for apprentices will be far more expensive and more complicated to organise than school kissing for students. That's probably another reason. Against this background, I have no current plans to consider the introduction of the right to clear skyscrapers for apprentices. However, I would like to point out that several county councils already have discount card schemes for young people. These schemes usually cover the whole youth group aged 16-19, including the apprentices – so this applies to many counties. In addition, I would like to refer to the Sem Declaration, which, in its chapter on transport policy, sets out the collective effort the Government wants to make, and it says, among other things. a priority field is price reduction for students and school students. This is a work that is in progress, but then in the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1192	I thank the Council of State for the answer – and I was really a little worried that it would end that way. I have noticed what the Council of State said about the statement by the government of Bondevik, which actually has a separate section on increased school and student discounts, but which does not include apprentices. It is nice that Stortinget has joined this, but I feel that this is a group that comes out very badly. This group falls between two chairs, and it's getting poorly out on several teams. It is also true that it is not always easy to get apprenticeships close to home – there are several subjects, for example: hotel science. Upland may be an example, but this is a problem that applies to most countries. Last year, the municipality of Oppland approved approx. 500 new apprenticeship contracts. In addition, there were 90 apprenticeship contracts where apprentices from Uppland were exported to other counties. That means rent expenses and return expenses. It should also be added that there are – also mentioned by the Council of State – long trips within their own country. So in addition to having to pay these trips seagoing, they miss out on cheap leisure trips, which students and students get to enjoy. I hope that the Council of State will say something about the unfortunateness of the discrimination that it actually becomes in relation to students and young people who are in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1203	First of all, I would like to point out that in a number of states there is no discrimination because you simply have discount card schemes for the whole group, no matter what they do – that also applies to apprentices. I have been informed today that this is about approx. Half of the country's counties, and I guess that's plans that will be expanded. Secondly, when it comes to discrimination, account must also be taken of the fact that there is a difference between those apprentices receiving wages and salaries. So they're receiving a few thousand a month, and it's increasing through the apprenticeship period. So there's differences here that justify why it's like this. I feel that it is right to await the efforts we are about to make in the field of transport policy. Then we can also take this into consideration. I don't have any plans to change the training law so that apprentices get the same status as students at this particular point, but I want to take it with me in the transport and collective effort that the Government is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1212	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I'm glad you're now getting a youth card that you're trying to do nationwide, and that's for the whole age group. But it's like apprentices have a four-year run, and they're not done until they're 20 years old. I'm almost tempted to say that in the case of residents' allowances, as other students get, there are quite special limits, because the limit goes on gross wages – for people over 19 years – of NOK 3045. And that's what an apprentice usually wants. So the outlaw is actually also disqualifying. It must be a matter of concern to the Council of State when the labour market is constantly calling for an increasing shortage of skilled labour, so I really hope that the Council of State will take this into account. It has not been many days since it was in the evening post that there were minus 2,000 carpenters in Oslo for the time being. This is a problem that I hope is understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1223	The shortage of labour in certain areas worries me. We have to be concerned about that, and we're on many fronts. Just when it comes to shooting, it has not been a big problem for me. There has been little progress since this reform was introduced. But I'm taking what I said with me, and I'm also going to study developments in the states to see if there's any progress there that makes this finally a problem that actually solves itself by the schemes the states themselves choose to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1233	«Gender grants reinforce the possibility of higher education abroad. A four-year training student in psychology has entered a doctorate in clinical psychology in Australia, but was denied a fee grant application. The regulations of the Loan Fund state that ‘fee grants may be granted in the normal course of study to cover all or part of the school money for education at Ph.D. level. in the United States or Canada for students in psychology.’» Why can't studies in Australia be said to be on the level of Ph.D. in the United States or Canada?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1240	Doctoral studies abroad do not normally receive fees. Derogations are made for students taking Ph.D. training in psychology in the United States or Canada. This derogation from the general rule was introduced in the 1996–97 study year, when there were long waiting lists to enter the Professional Psychology Study in Norway. There was at this time a great need for more with cand.psychol.-grad in Norway. Ph.D. training in clinical psychology from the United States and Canada is equated with a cand.psychol. degree in Norway, and therefore wanted to stimulate financially that more people took this training. At the time the exemption was introduced, there were hardly any Norwegian students in Australia, and the issue raised in this question was therefore not up to date at that time. In this context, there has been no qualitative assessment of the doctoral training in psychology in Australia, whether it can be said to be on the level of the Ph.D. studies in psychology in the United States and Canada or not. But that's the way it per cent. Currently, no fees are awarded for doctoral studies in any country other than the United States and Canada, and only for psychology studies. The Ministry has recently been informed that today’s prescription may be misunderstood, but the intention behind the regulation is that fees may be granted only if the doctoral training in psychology is taken in the United States or Canada. The Ministry is now working on the regulations for the 2002–03 study year, and we will then reword the text of the regulation in order to avoid misunderstandings as to the nature of Ph.D. training for which fees may be awarded. Having said that, I can also inform you that the Ministry has received a report from the Advisory Committee on Fee and Additional Grants, the so-called 'Lucke' Committee, which proposes changes to fees scholarships for psychology studies abroad. The Ministry will now consider these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1255	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for a clarification so far. I have a follow-up question. Fee grants have been and are a good scheme for Norwegian students’ opportunities to take higher education abroad, but there are clear boundaries now to be considered. My question to the Council of State will be: Will the Council of State provide leadership so that the system of fees grants will be expanded and strengthened in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1260	I'm putting a lot of emphasis on getting us into an internationalization of higher education. This can happen in several ways, and it is the subject of the quality reform for higher education. This can happen by students taking their entire education abroad — we also want foreign students to go to Norway, of course — and it should also be done to a greater extent by Norwegian students leaving as part of their education, preferably as part of exchange programmes. I think it is right to keep financial incentives for this, the fee grant scheme is a powerful incentive. It can help us meet the needs of special disciplines and education where we lack. It also contributes to this general internationalisation. At the same time, of course, it's also a costly system, so we have to always assess what we can afford and what we will give priority to according to the needs we have. But my leaders will at least be that I want to contribute to internationalisation, and then, of course, I will also evaluate the fee grant scheme from time to time and ensure that it works in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1267	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I have to say that I look forward to a possible extension of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1272	I have nothing to comment on. The fee grant scheme, which subjects and trainings it will cover, is assessed at regular intervals, annually in fact. It is subject to an annual assessment. This is when you look at needs, but you also look at budgetary conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1280	: I have this question for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘The ESA has once again replied that the designation by UiO of the professorship and postdoctoral positions of women is contrary to the EEA Agreement. UiO only has 13 pst. female professors. Without designation, equality in higher education will take many decades to be achieved. Does the Council support the designation of women as an instrument for favouring qualified women, and will it, on this basis, stand firm on previous decisions on the designation of women professors when the Government is to provide a final response to ESA?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1289	The background to the case is that in August 2000 the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, received a complaint against Norway concerning the designation of scientific positions for women at the University of Oslo. It was claimed that the university designation scheme was contrary to the EEA Agreement. The University of Oslo has earmarked 20 postdoctoral positions for women in 1998. In the Ministry’s 2001 and 2002 budget, central funding is also provided for women’s postdoctoral positions and professorships. Norway received a reasoned opinion from ESA last November. The ESA then concluded that it considers the law of higher education and the system of designation at the University of Oslo to be contrary to the EEA Agreement. The government, after a thorough assessment, has concluded that it will maintain the view that Norway has previously expressed in the case. What we are saying is that the law of higher education and the system of designating scientific positions for women is not considered to be contrary to the EEA Agreement. The Ministry now prepares a letter of reply to ESA in line with the Government’s assessment. This could mean that ESA is bringing the case before the EFTA Court, and we will then have the view of the Court of Justice on the matter. As I have noted earlier, the proportion of women in senior positions in the academic community is very weak. Just 13 pst. by the professorates and 29 pst. of the first amanunians' positions are occupied by women, despite the fact that over a number of years we have had a high proportion of women among those taking higher education. Different measures to increase the proportion of women in scientific positions are therefore important. One option is to use quota measures by designating posts for a period of time to initiate a change, as permitted by the provisions of the Law on Higher Education. However, this is a temporary solution and other instruments must also be used to strengthen the proportion of women in academia, such as the establishment of mentoring schemes for women added, the determination of gender equality ratios, etc. The Ministry has called on the institutions to draw up action plans for gender equality, and they must report to the Ministry on their work in this area in budgetary terms. I would also like to point out that the Department of this spring will present a major report on the recruitment of scientific personnel for higher education, where equality is also being treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1306	Thank you very much for your answer. I must say I was very happy. I had prepared to give the Council of States some punishment, but I will not, and I must give her credit for really showing muscles in this matter – not only on behalf of Norwegian women, but also on behalf of women in the EU who have been concerned about this, and who have actually encouraged Norway to oppose ESA in this area. The EU has a non-discrimination directive that allows for special treatment, but then there are a lot of other practices that give equal treatment to men and women. And when the starting point is inequality, the result is inequality. I have a follow-up question. We see that ESA interprets the EEA Agreement and the swirling monk that we have very strongly. Is the Council of State saying that we have a bigger room for action than the way ESA enters and interprets it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1313	We're familiar with the assessments on the other side, but jus is not math, and that's why there's room for interpretation. We believe that we have one thing that should be tried. This case challenges Norway and Norwegian conditions in two ways, one might say. One is that it challenges Norwegian law, in this case the Law of Higher Education in particular. This point of the law was adopted in the mid-1990s by a fairly broad majority in the Grand Duchy – in fact on its own initiative, because the government had not proposed this paragraph in its time. You might say that this section of the law since then has been quite undisputed in Norway, and I therefore do not intend to propose to change it if I am not forced to do so, or the problem in the sector is being resolved. The other way this challenges Norway — it is not just Norway, because it is the underlying problem in the sector — is that we have a small number of women in scientific positions. It's just like women fall off gradually as they're approaching the top of the university and higher education system. We know that there are a lot of women studying, so that's not where the problem is, but they fall off. That's 13 pst. women among professors in Norway. It's a little number. But in the EU countries, the figure is actually much lower, so that 13 pst. is a high number in the context of many EU countries. So if we stick to politics, this matter is covered in many countries – and especially in this sector in many countries – with great interest and is very interested in different types of action to raise the proportion of women. This isn't the only thing that can be used, and it's not the most positive, I have to say it too. I mentioned someone else, and I will persecute them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1322	I thank you again for the answer, and I am very pleased that the Council of State so clearly stresses that jus is not a policy, that she does not intend to change the university law, which opens up to ear-marking, and that she sees that this actually matters also within the European Union, which has a much weaker female participation in the academic community than we have. But we are not doing well either. But I want to challenge the Council of States – I should perhaps do so to the Minister of Foreign Affairs – somewhat more in relation to the role of ESA. I think she's an ascending human being who can answer. We now see that ESA is more and more detailed in its Norwegian policy, for example. they do not take into account the fact that the EEA Agreement provides us with the space for action that the Council of State has actually provided. They control the detail and use the senses very, very tight. There are a lot of people who are annoyed by ESA because of this, and many in Norway actually believe that there are politicians in Norway who run and run detailed boards. It also opens up to political disdain. Will the Council of State take part in the Government and discuss the role of ESA in this area and in other areas, i.e. problematize the role of ESA in the management of Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1331	It may be true, as the replicator here suggests, that this opens up a slightly large and wider debate than what is suitable for this part of the question-student, where the foreign minister should also be involved. But I'd like to inform him about this follow-up question. But let me just say one thing: I didn't say that "light is not politics" – it's in and for itself right. I said that light is not math. My experience is that in every case where there are lawyers, whether there are legal cases or other cases, there is usually a lawyer on either side, and both of them sound very safe. It tells us that there's room for interpretation and room for discretion, and that jus is not a mathematical subject where there's a final answer. I believe that we have a matter that should be tried, and that is what the Government has now decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1341	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘In Stavanger Aftenblad on 4 February 2002, the Council of State says that female teachers are too little interested in real science. She goes on to say that the overweight of female teachers inhibits children's interest in real science. What does the Council of State mean by this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1350	I have not spoken as strongly as the question suggests. Stavanger Aftenblad has also protested that they have quoted me, and changed a notice that, as far as I know, was on their web pages. But my point is to put the spotlight on the math place in school and to want to strengthen the math skills of the students. Part of this picture is that about half of the teachers who teach mathematics at kindergarten state that they have zero weights in mathematics. In my view, this is worrying. Lack of competence in mathematics can easily lead to the teacher not being able to inspire students to like mathematics, which in turn can lead to a lack of interest in the other real subjects. In general, international studies show that Norwegian students show less positive attitudes towards intermediate mathematics than they do at lower levels. In addition, studies show that there are considerable differences between genders in attitudes to mathematics and natural sciences. The girls are clearly less positive than the boys. The PISA survey shows the same trends in 2000. In my opinion, we cannot exclude that such differences of opinion also apply among teachers, and in that case it is also desirable for this reason to have a better gender balance in the teacher's corps. About 92 pst. by primary school teachers are women today, while there are about 72 pst. female teachers in primary school as a whole. We have now launched a teacher recruitment campaign such as: emphasises the need to involve more men in teacher training. In addition, we are now working on a teacher-training message, where strengthening of math training is proposed. This message will be submitted shortly. It is also very important to take care of the teachers who are in school, both women and men, and to allow them to develop their skills. That is why, from the autumn, we will start a newly developed continuing training course in, among other things. mathematics with emphasis on the use of ICT. The measures to strengthen the competence of teachers in mathematics are a priority task. In addition to this, we will launch a series of actions to develop better practices and learning strategies in mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1363	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that the Council of State has gone away from the interview she gave in Stavanger Aftenblad, which probably made it more than I did when we read it. The reaction of the teacher organisations was also not allowed to wait. ‘Unmotivated Teachers’ and ‘Poor Holdings’ were expressions used by the Council of State on a profession that is very, very much under pressure as it is today. I fully agree with the Council of State that raising the quality and giving employees the possibility of continuing training and improving their skills is absolutely necessary. But I think it's important that we don't now go completely into a clinic with a profession that actually deserves something completely different. That's why I'm very pleased with the answer that the Council of State is now giving, which is something quite different from what is expressed in Stavanger Aftenblad. One of the concrete things that the Council of State refers to is that she now wants to ‘deep and comprehensive action’. Then I think it is time to challenge the Council of State on it: What can the Storting expect of tough and concrete measures from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1372	I do not know whether I understood the last question, which ‘difficult and concrete actions’ are requested here. The interview in Stavanger Aftenblad was also quite a lengthy interview that I did with a journalist who I see as being quite factual. I think the headline got a little unlucky – I don't know if it was that much more, and I don't think that this leads to any very bad dialogue with the teacher organisations. I just came from a meeting with them now, and there was a very pleasant atmosphere, and no one raised questions about exactly this. I don't think it's so very eye-catching what I'm into here. We're very concerned, including the questioner here, that we need to get more women into professions and positions that are human-dominated. I just answered another question that I think the replicator is quite concerned about, in terms of the university and higher education sectors. And then, of course, the exact same thing applies when it's the opposite image. I think it is worrying that we see a limit to total feminisation of children and young people's childhood and growth, if we now stick to kindergarten and school. The proportion of women in kindergarten is even higher than it is in primary school, and if there's something about having a slightly different attitude to the subjects, it's clear that it can also reflect among the teachers, just as it does among the children. Where these differences of opinion come from, it's a little difficult to judge -- we can wonder about that, but I've just suggested that for this reason, a better balance is desirable. I almost have to ask the replicant to repeat the question of tough measures, because I did not understand correctly the area in which she requested measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1381	I'm going to be happy to do that. First, I would like to say that when you start to study the statements given in this State Council interview, they appear to be quite strong and eye-catching. I can refer a couple of them. She claims that ‘Many of the causes of Norwegian youth’s failing interest in real science lie in poor attitudes among the teachers, and believe there is reason to call out a warning.’ — We enter a vicious circle: Unmotivated teachers who do not show interest in the subject they teach, don’t get involved with the students.’ So to the specific question that the Council of State did not understand. In the same interview, she said, ‘The Minister of Education announces tough and comprehensive measures to increase the quality of Norwegian teachers, especially in the real world.’ Then I expect that we'll now get to a point where we'll start to concrete. One thing is to describe the problems – we can agree that there is, of course, a need for good role models both in kindergarten and in school, and that of course we need people of both sexes. But I think the tone of the interview that the Council of State gave helped more to ask questions than to provide constructive solutions. As I said, the reactions did not wait for us – we saw that Hetland called the whole interview and played ‘deep’. That is why I think there is reason to give the Council of State the opportunity to comment on and elaborate on this and to put forward its concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1395	I don't want to go into the individual words and expressions here, but I've tried to explain a phenomenon that I at least think we have to take seriously. It's been possible for those who are going to be teachers, to have their last year of mathematics in the first grade of high school. From then on you could pick math completely, and after you've chosen it completely and become a teacher, you could become a math teacher in primary school. So you can ask yourself, why do you pick it out? One reason why you choose something away, is that you dislike the subject, have a little bad attitudes to the subject, are not motivated by the subject, do not like the subject. That is what we see, among other things. Appreciate the difference between girls and boys in school today. But it may also apply to those who have trained as teachers, and I believe that then it probably has something to say that if they teach mathematics today and have chosen it for themselves since they went to the first grade of higher education – if that happens – that attitude can reproduce to the children. I just tried to convey a reflection about it, and I think that must be allowed. In the case of tough actions to strengthen mathematics training, it is about teacher training, about continuing education and training, and we will also soon be presenting an action plan to strengthen the mathematics field of initial education.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1405	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘NOU 2001:29 ‘Best in Test’ shows that the industry’s investment in R & D and the training of employees are among the worst in the OECD area. The share of employees who have participated in training is low. In the past, the OECD has stated that everything is in place for Norway to establish a lifelong learning system. The public has set up the necessary legislative adaptations and funds are allocated to different programmes. What will the Council of State do to make business take responsibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1414	As the representative of Rikvam points out in his question, it has publicly facilitated the development of adult competences through different instruments, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Adults are entitled to secondary education.From 1 August this year, adults will also be entitled to primary school. In particular, with a view to stimulating business to invest in the build-up of skills: Education is tax-free. In 1999, the tax law was amended so that expenditure on education is primarily deductible for the employer. Over the course of three years, 250 million have been allocated. to development programmes of skills that will help to improve the identification, expression and fulfilment of private and public enterprises’ skills needs further develop the areas of cooperation between labour-related actors and the education-side development of continuing training services that are more adapted to the needs of the labour market; The Programme is committed to achieving businesses facing specific challenges in integrating day-to-day continuing education and training. The competence development programme requires significant self-financing from users. It will be evaluated and experience will be distributed to relevant actors and discussed with industry. Real skills are also acquired in the workplace. The social partners will therefore have a special responsibility, together with the authorities, to develop mechanisms to document learning at work. To try to advance this work, I want to set up a forum for competence and working life, such as: will be composed of the social partners and other actors in this market, if I can express it this way. I will use this forum to put skills development in the workplace more strongly on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1459	I registered that my party colleague, Ågot Valle, was prepared to punish the Council of State, but had to give her credit for a question earlier. I can't do that after this answer. By and large, this was an illustration of what the public has done, and it was some of what I pointed out in my question as well, that the public has made everything right. We've passed laws, we've given rights, and we've given quite a lot of money to the competence development program. In the NOU to which I refer, it is shown that what private business does is bad. The government likes very good comparative studies, and if we're a little bit below average, it's bad, sad and search. But here we're not just a little bit lower, we're pretty much below average in terms of business's willingness to bet on the development of their employees and to facilitate courses and various offers. So here it might have to be harder and stronger than what we've been using so far, if we think this is important. And I expect the Council of State to think this is important, because this has something to do with our competitive advantage. So my question is the same: Will the Council of State take action against private business to increase the commitment to the development of skills and to the continuing training of employees, precisely to strengthen our competitiveness and strengthen our competitive advantage?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1468	It is probably asked what kind of instruments the representative Rikvam thinks about. But let me say this: whether we can realize the vision of lifelong learning depends on several things. It depends on the system we're building up, and we agree that we're pretty good in Norway. That's what we've been talking about now. The second is the extent to which we will participate in continuing education and training, and the quality of it. And I'm going to honestly admit that I'm a little bit surprised by the results. I thought maybe we should get out better, both in terms of scale and quality, than that might indicate that we are. It requires that we sit together and analyse this carefully and assess other measures we can take. I am not prepared to say here and now what kind of action it should be, or whether it can go under the heading of «harder lute», as the representative of Reikham said, but I think it is a start to establish this forum for competence and working life, that we come together with the relevant actors and discuss what is the situation and status in Norway in terms of continuing training and lifelong learning, and what ideas we can have to move on with this reform. What the country is going to contribute to this year is, of course, developing a national system for the documentation and valuation of real competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1475	We know a lot about status. We have this NOU, which describes a good deal. We'll probably also get a report from the OECD in the spring, and we know the content pretty much. We know that we are bad, and that we have to do something – that we have to take some action. And then I'm going to be pretty concrete and challenge the Council of States on something that goes beyond establishing a forum. Will the State Council apply economic instruments, for example, levying fees on the competence development programme, so as to allow for a redistribution between different enterprises to companies with a low share and who spend little money on training? Or will the Council not use that type of instrument? Let's do a parallel. We have an employer's fee. Can the Council of State think of something similar aimed at developing skills? If she does, I think we can make real progress and get a real grip. The question is therefore: could the Council use this type of instrument to influence industry's willingness to invest in continuing training and skills-enhancing measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1482	I'm going to go into this work with an open mind and not least listen to those who are going to participate in the Competence and Working Life Forum, who know these challenges and problems on the body. I'm not prepared to say what I'm going to conclude with, but I can well say that imagining that we're going to charge new taxes for business is probably not entirely in the spirit of this government, so I don't think it's the most relevant measure, to say it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1491	This question, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade, who will address the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1494	I have the following questions: ‘According to the media, the EU has introduced new directives on medical certification requirements for fishermen and other seafarers. The new rules mean that professionals may be withdrawn from service because they are over-weighted in relation to a prescribed BMI regulation, Body Mass Index. Professionals may risk such exclusion from their profession, even if health is good and the job is done without a spot. The Council of State has accepted these new rules and does not wish to do so. could mean that healthy people need to be referred unnecessarily to the social security system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1503	Let me first say that people who have a good health and who are able to do a good and safe job at sea, either as a sailor or a fisherman, of course, should still have the opportunity to pursue their profession. Neither EU rules nor any other rules shall put an end to this. As far as I can see, there are no rules to ensure that someone is sent on land unnecessarily. After the attention that has been given to this matter in the media, this also gives an opportunity to distinguish between ‘shut and bart’. Firstly, it can be established that the requirement for a health certificate for seafarers is not new. It's been there for decades. Nor has it come as a result of EU requirements. Before the EU was invented, I was about to say, there was a requirement for this. The regulation we have today in this area is governed by the Maritime Act, Section 26, and is therefore not an EU directive. The regulation replaced an older regulation laid down by the Health Director in 1981. It's also the case that we have our own medical offices for people going to sea, to take care of the special things associated with it. The purpose of a regulation on health examination is part of our work to ensure safety at sea. Workers working at sea shall have safe working conditions, they shall not present a danger to others on board, nor shall they present a danger to the safe operation of the ship. Workers must be able to carry out their duties in a safe manner, both in the day-to-day work and not least in an emergency. Initially, the new regulation applies to all seafarers, including fishermen covered by the Maritime Act. But here is the significant exception to this rule. The derogations are workers over the age of 18 who serve on fishing and fishing vessels used for fjord fishing, coastal fishing or bank fishing I and who are not continuously out on the sea for more than three days. It is also an exception for workers over 18 years of age on ships less than 15 metres in length and used only for domestic voyages, unless the ship carries passengers or is continuous off-shore for more than three days. The new regulation retains requirements related to weight but has also introduced the Body Mass Index. We can just assume that what that means is a modern, international, overweight unit. This is in line with similar rules in several other shipping countries, Denmark, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Australia. This term is to be used instead of a table that we have used here to land for 35 years, as developed by Professor Natvig, and which has been generally accepted. Let me just make it clear in the end that professionals with good health who are able to do a good and safe job, and who do not represent any safety risk to others, will still receive a health certificate, even if they were to have a BMI of over 35. There should be flexibility in this treatment, and I don't think there is any risk of getting – one might say – the weight of Norwegian fishermen on a diet as a necessity for them to get out of the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1519	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I don't feel that the Council of State is evading the strange rule that has come in here, and that I will certainly say will have consequences for seafarers. I believe that if the Government is to have any credibility in removing unnecessary rules, it must at least speak against such rules. Now the pressure to reduce the manning of passenger ships and ferries has been very large, against the warnings of the seafarers. Reduced manning primarily weakens preparedness in the event of accidents. A sailor can seamanship no matter how heavy he is, and has the best prerequisites to recover in an emergency even if he or she is too heavy. A passenger does not have this knowledge. Can we assume that these rules will also apply to passengers who are too heavy or who have movement problems? Are we going to get some weight control at the landing to determine which passengers are allowed to be present, and who has to be left when the boat leaves?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1526	To the extent that it would become an upper weight, I hope it will be set high, for I think it is quite pleasant to take a trip both with passenger ferries and other boats. I don't think we're going to draw this any further into the cartoon than that's the basis for it. I do not think you should fear that there will be a situation in which passengers will be weighed before they get on board and found too heavy. But it's quite obvious that you don't need much imagination to imagine that in an emergency, people with reduced mobility and people who, because of other circumstances, have to have special care will be at greater risk. But that doesn't mean we stop taking risks for that reason. The underlying rules applicable to BMIs of 35 and above are not at all related to safety, in order to ensure the safety of their own, and not least to assist in emergency situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1533	I thank you again for the answer and can confirm that I also think it is nice to work at sea even though I am heavy, and have done quite well until I came to this house. I think this focus has created uncertainty for many skilled seafarers, and I think that the Council of State must try to get it attached. At least I'm going to promise the Council of State to follow, and the first person who doesn't get such a certificate because he's supposed to be a little too heavy, I'm going to promise to tip the Council of State off. Then he will take further care of the matter if there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1538	I can't replicate anything other than that I share the representative's opinion, and I can promise that I will put my whole weight into the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1553	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1559	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The post has now announced the closure of several post offices in the coming months. This means that larger municipalities, such as: Nome and Vinje in Telemark will be without a full postal office. The State Council believes that this new round of closures by the Post is in line with the Storting's assumptions, among others. in the treatment of St.meld. No 26 for 2000-2001 and in accordance with the concession requirements of the Item? ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1568	The overall framework for the future network of despatch as presented in the mains notification of the conversion of the Post dispatch network is established. The post has indicated that the future despatch network will continue to consist of more than 1500 total points of dispatch, of which a minimum of 300 postal trade. The other dispatch points are established as Posten Bedrijf, Post i Storek or Post in Public Service Office. The 40 post offices assessed by the Post Office shall be replaced by at least 50 Post in Store. In line with what was foreseen during the deliberation of the case, the concession requirements shall also be met after the conversion. This includes, inter alia: that all universal and basic banking services shall be available in all the municipalities of the country and that each municipality shall have at least one permanent place of dispatch, Post or Post in Store, which provides such services. The post office and not least the postal and telecommunications supervision body in the postal field shall ensure compliance with these requirements. By letter of 21 January this year, the Ministry of Transport asked the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to continue to monitor closely the fulfilment of the requirements of the concession and the Stortinge Service and Quality Signals in connection with the conversion process in the Post. Under the adopted governance principles, the Post itself is responsible for fulfilling the national social obligations as a whole and for finding good and effective solutions for postal services in individual areas. Therefore, within the overall framework, it is the Post itself that has to assess, on a commercial basis, the location of each Postal Trade and Post in Store. I understand that it is perceived as new, unfamiliar and negative that even larger places could be without a fixed point of dispatch driven by the Post itself. However, I would like to stress that the traditional shipping network is becoming less and less relevant to the Post Office's ability to provide its services, including universal services. Many of the Posten services are provided through other channels. These include: establish a number of specific schemes for business, such as: contract-based pick-up and bring services and open distribution units where odd products and larger volumes can be delivered. A number of services are also provided electronically, via the Internet or via the Internet. Phone. This means that both private and commercial customers must be guaranteed a good and equivalent offer in all parts of the country through the postal network.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1579	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to the question is that the Post has now announced the closure of 40 new post offices. In this round, there are no small and remote offices with a thin population base that are being hit. These are already gone. Now this framework will partly large and relatively populous towns and municipalities. In the case of Telemark, this means, for example: that Nome municipality with 6,700 inhabitants and Vinje municipality, which has an area of one and a half times the size of the entire Westfold county, will be without a full postal office. From Åmot Municipality Centre in Vinje there is now a 50 km journey to the nearest post office, and large parts of the municipality's residents get up to 90 km away from the post office. Does the Council of State consider this to be in accordance with the requirements of the concession of Post Norway AB? Point 1.3 states: ‘The entry shall ensure that users have a good and equivalent offer in all parts of the country.’» And according to point 2.1: ‘... services... shall be accessible to the population of the whole country through a nationwide postal network.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1594	The size has pre-empted this conversion through the treatment of that major communication. It's important, and that's of course a goal, and it's inside the concession, that there should be services available around the country. This conversion shall also be for the benefit of users. As I said in my reply instead, the goal is that there should be 1,500 places here in the country where you will get access to the Post Office services. It will be in the form of different types, such as Postal Trade, Post in Store and Post in Public Service Office. This is supposed to provide an availability that is at least as good as today's solution. I know that there is a communication between the Post and the affected municipalities in such rounds. It's very important, so that we can find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1599	I guess I just have to say that the Council of State and I may have a slightly different view of what is a good and not least an equivalent offer and availability when it is such that Vinje Municipality, which is larger than the Westfold County, does not have one ordinary post office, while the Westfold County has twelve. Then you can talk about equivalent offers! I don't think it is. Vinje kommune has been given a legal assessment of the Post’s closure plans which provisionally concludes that a closure of the Post Office in Vinje must be presumed to be contrary to the requirement in the concession terms of a good and equivalent offer. The same legal assessment also concludes that the Item has committed several manifest breaches of the administrative principle. The post has taken a decision on termination without the matter having been brought to the hearing and before the municipality which the party concerned has been given the opportunity to comment. What initiative will the Council of State take to ensure that the Post meets the concession requirements and abides by administrative laws and rules, both in this case and in future restructurings?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1606	It is such that when post offices are closed, other solutions shall be established to provide access to these services. There are reasonably clear requirements in the concession. That's absolutely right. It is precisely here that postal and telecommunications supervision, which is an important supervisory body, has an important function, precisely to ensure that the concession requirements are met in a good way. I have already initiated a proper review of this, and the Post and Telecommunications Authority will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1615	My question to the Minister for Transport goes in the same direction as the previous question: ‘The Post Norway BA has notified the municipality of West Toten that Raufoss’ post office will be replaced by Post in Butikk as of 30 June 2002. This means that the municipality of Vestre Toten with 13 000 inhabitants and Raufoss with over 7 000 inhabitants and with one of the largest industrial activities in Norway will be without a full postal service. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with Posten's concession terms, and does the Council of State agree that such a large town as Raufoss should not have a full postal service?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1624	The requirements of the Post Convention on Access to and Provision of Universal Service in all parts of the country shall be met, even after the transfer from Post Office to Post in Store. This is a clear prerequisite for the conversion of the Posten despatch network. In addition, the Post Office has, among other things: contract-based pick-up and bringing services for enterprises with specific needs not covered by Post in Store. The post review these days' comments from municipalities on the decision to replace more post offices than previously assumed, with Post in Storek. In this context, the Item assesses the specific needs of industry. I am therefore confident that the Post will ensure a good and full postal service for all customer groups – also at Raufoss – in the future, whether the Post Office will continue as Post or be replaced by Post in Store. In addition, I refer to my answer to the previous question from the representative Molvik on a similar matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1633	I thank the Council of State for your answer. In that time, when the postal system was being changed, the state still had to make sure that we got a nationwide, fully-fledged postal service. We should do that through concession terms for the Post, and I'm glad that the Council of State points out that the concession terms have to be followed up. One thing is that we should have a nationwide offering of closer defined postal services, but in the concession terms it also says that the Post should provide basic banking services throughout the company's entire shipping network. There are many places where Post in Store works very well. It actually increases the opening time and improves the existence of many, but the problem is that Post in Store does not provide a full postal or financial service offering on the same lines as regular post offices, what is now called Posthandel. The strange thing is the procedure that the Post uses in its conversions. In September last year, in West Toten, they were told that the main post office would be upgraded to Posthandel, which they accept with open arms, because that would give you a full offer. Then there's a opposite message, that this is going to be converted to Mail in Store. When you know the size of Raufoss, and when you know the industrial environment and the reactions that have come after you know it, you see that they don't get a full postal service. And if you're not going to keep this up in such a big place as Raufoss, with over 7,000 inhabitants, and with the industrial environment in the Western Toten municipality with 13,000 inhabitants, then I'm going to ask, where are we going to have a full postal service?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1644	Of course, I fully agree that it is important that there are good postal solutions across the country. That's why we have concession, and that's why we buy services from the Post. The entry, together with the municipalities concerned, shall have a dialogue to find the best solutions based on the needs of the individual local authorities. I trust that this process will follow the terms of the concession given. It is important to find solutions that work well, and it is important that the Post does a good job in relation to finding the best solutions. And I trust that they do. Nevertheless, I believe that we should use the supervisory body we have, the Post and Telecommunications Authority, to ensure that the requirements contained in the concession, and the needs that lie here, are properly and properly satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1651	Thank you for that. It is very good that the Council of State has confidence in the Post, but I feel that this is a bit in the frontier country in relation to what our Storting has in mind, and what also has our department's intentions, when we say that we should have a nationwide postal service. For it must be in border countries in relation to our requirements and the concession requirements of the Ministry when Raufoss with its industrial environment with 7,000 inhabitants is not to have a full postal service. I underline the expression ‘full’, because as we were here instead, Post in Store lacks some of the services that are in Postal or mail offices, such as the issuing of identity cards, ticket rooms, advisory services, etc. That is when I believe that the state that owns, the political powers, must say so. It is also true, as the Council of State says, that there should be a dialogue with the municipalities affected here. But then I think it's important to underline dialogue, and that it's not just that the municipality should be allowed to come up with some kind of hearing, and so does the Post just as they want to do anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1660	The item has its framework terms and conditions, and it is also the concession that underlies the activities they operate. And it is important that the Post Office is given the opportunity to find the best solutions given to the existing frameworks. I also know that the Post is working to find special solutions in relation to business where there is a need for it. As was pointed out here, we are now talking about an industrial environment where there may be special needs. And I trust the Post has contact with those parts of the business that have special needs here. In the case that not all services are available at Post in Store, which was mentioned as ticket sales, it is still possible to order tickets per. Phone and get them at Post in Store. There are some services that don't exist, but they're very few.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1683	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1689	I will allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The railway system is now planning to remove multiple sidings. E.g.: it has become known that the Railway Agency wishes to remove the siding on the Postmyran industrial area of Berkåk in the South Trøndelag. From an environmental point of view, it has been an overall political objective to increase freight traffic from road to rail. Will the Council of State emphasise this objective and ensure that the railway works' sidings to industrial areas are maintained?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1698	At a very large number of railway station stations, the track layout has been determined on the basis of operational models that have been abandoned several years ago. The railway works are therefore working to modernise the track plans for a number of stations and sidings in order to achieve more efficient and appropriate operation. This applies in particular to freight transport where extensive rationalisation processes have been carried out over many years, with a rotation from traditional wagon load to combined transport and containers. This is a strategy to strengthen rail competitiveness in freight and thus underpin the overall objective of getting more goods from road to rail. As far as the industrial trail at Berkåk is concerned, this was last used in 1995. An industry track that is not in use does not initially generate significant costs. The costs are mainly related to the actual track rotation in the main track, on the Dovre track. After a few years, the switch must also be renewed. Leaving unused track changes in the main track is not favourable for the other train traffic, as it is a potential source of error, and it also creates restrictions for continuous snow clearance. According to a contract with the NSB, now CargoNet, the municipality must guarantee specified annual traffic revenue increases in order to maintain the industrial track. The railway system is responsible for its operation and maintenance. Given that there has been no traffic on the industrial track in the last seven years, the Railway Agency wrote on 16 January this year a letter to the Municipality of Rennebu proposing to terminate the contract between the parties, so that the main track gauge could be removed. No reply has been received yet. In the future, if there were to be grounds for resuming traffic on the siding, it would be easy to put the switch back into the main track.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1707	First, I have to thank you for the answer. As I understand it, this is about several sidings that have not been used in the last few years. We have had too much transport on the roads, and we see that the roads in Norway are not able to take all this freight traffic – for example. The Østerdalen and several other roads. Both traffic and environmental issues should be very important in the future, and initially it will be important that we manage to maintain the tracks we have and renew and maintain them so that they are able to be used, such as this with containers and solutions that make it useful for users to use track in relation to road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1712	Of course, I fully agree that it is a goal that we should transfer freight from road to rail. Then it's important that we facilitate the conditions so that the NSB and the Railway Agency can come up with the most effective ways to do it. In those cases where there is a track that is not operational for a period, and it is such a relatively simple case as a switch of tracks, I believe that it is the responsibility of the Railway Agency to remove and reposition it. They have the full opportunity to put the switch back into the track, and we can use that siding if desired.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1717	I thank you again for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State agrees with me that this is an important matter. After the information I have received, this is about removing sidings, and it becomes a little more serious than what a switch is – although it is also important to maintain these so that they can be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1722	One objective that is expressed in many contexts is that we should get good and efficient transport and get freight from road to rail. There are many reasons for this, in terms of the road network itself and what means must be used in relation to it, and also road safety. There are many good reasons for this, including environmental considerations. Then it is important, as I have said, that the framework conditions for the operator are in place in relation to being able to make the necessary assessments at all times. And I have confidence in being done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1730	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The average age of ferries in Norway is increasing. In More and Romesdal, the average age of More and Romsdal's 35 ferries is now 27.6 years, which means that 3.5 ferries must be built on average per. years in order not to increase age. [[MRF]] The ferry director of the Directorate of Roads, in a letter dated November 2001, included: MRF has the oldest ferry in the country, and MRF is the company that has the worst capacity coverage in the national road links. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1739	The average age of the national road ferries is approx. 20 years. The average age of More and Romsdal County boats is approx. 25.8 years. In the national transport plan for the period 2002-2011, around 15 ferries have been built. District connection with old ferries will be prioritised. The renewal will make the ferry equipment better suited to traffic in several ways, including: in the case of increased capacity for large vehicles. In recent years, construction has been high in national road ferries. Between 1998 and 2001, 18 ferries were built. A further six new ferries are to be delivered in 2002. Two of these shall be delivered to MRF, which will significantly improve the standard and capacity of the connections concerned. More and Romesdal have today the oldest ferry fleet in the country and have poor capacity coverage in the national road links. I believe investments in More and Romesdal should be prioritised within the framework and leadership of the Stortinget. This applies both to newly built and to smoking used ferries that are more suitable for the national road transport connections concerned. However, among other things: the safety and affordability of the fact that there are also justified requirements for the replacement of old ferries in other counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1750	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Although I understand that the Council of State cannot accept enough new ferries to More and Romesdal, it must be a cross of thought for all of us who work politically, that we must continue with millions of investments to upgrade old ferries. In addition, we know that old ferries require greater crewing compared to new cost-effective ferries, which require lower crewing. The ferry company in More and Romesdal operates very well within the limits they now have, so they deserve better operational capabilities. My concrete follow-up question to the state council now answered is: What plan does a ferry exchange plan have in addition to what was mentioned here? Because with just two new ferries next year, one will still have an increasing age on the ferries in our ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1757	When you get two whole new ferries, according to my calculations, the average age will go down quite dramatically, because the average age was initially pretty high. The way we plan these replacements is based on the overall plans dealt with in Stortinget. The further follow-up in practice is based on what is contained in the annual budgets. The framework is laid down, and in this way we intend to follow up in my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1762	I am partly satisfied with the answer. I see that there are things that I am happy about. I want to challenge the Council of State on a related problem related to new construction. In the new government's draft budget, it is called inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government believes that it should be committed to the distribution and use of natural gas domestically where this has an environmentally positive effect and will therefore offer commitments to contract natural gas ferries in the links that facilitate this.’ We have a lot of gas outside of More and Romesdal, which is taken ashore and much more should be taken ashore to More and Romesdal. The experience of our “Glutra” gas ferry suggests that the NOx emissions have been reduced by 80-90 pst. and the CO2 emissions corresponding to 20-25 pst. Will the Council of State take initiatives to build several gas ferries in Norway, and in particular for More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1776	The President will draw attention to the fact that we are starting to move a little bit away from the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1779	It is a fairly well-known case that I am concerned about the environment, also in the case of ferry operations. I am interested in the environmental aspect of the purchase of new ferries, ferries going on traditional fuel, and ferries going on alternative fuels. Of course, it's interesting with gas in this context. As I continue to work on the challenges of gas travel, of course I look at the environmental benefit in relation to other types of fuel, and also in relation to the economy. Therefore, I would like to take this further into consideration when we look at new purchases, if it is possible, reasonable and proper to bet on gas ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1787	«The Regional Office of the State Road Administration was added to Leikanger, despite professional advice from the Director of the Road to Bergen on location. Ingredient Sørfonn tells BA that ‘you thought it would be easy to get the office to Bergen because it was logical’. The representative more than suggests that the professional assessments on which they were based were not good enough. Does the Council share the view of the representative of Sørfonn that professional assessments were not the basis for the recommendation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1794	The representative of Lund refers to the question of the opinion of the representative of Sørfonn to BA. I do not think it is right to go into the opinions given to the media, but should say something independently of this about the assessments that led to my decision on the location of the regional offices. In my assessments, I have focused on efficiency, decentralisation and a more balanced regional distribution of state jobs. Like the Road Directorate, I have assumed that regional offices will be located in places where road offices already exist today. This is a cross-disciplinary assessment. This will also reduce migration costs and otherwise means that regional offices are co-located with one of the county administrations of the region. I also understand that in the recommendation from the Directorate of Roads there was a great deal of emphasis on, among other things. travel distance and travel expenses within the region and between the Regional Office and Oslo. However, on the basis of an overall assessment, I came up with a different location of the regional offices than the Road Directorate proposed. I have paid particular attention to the need for decentralisation and the desire for a more balanced distribution of State jobs in individual parts of the country. It has been important for me with a location that helps the whole country to become operational. I attach great importance to following up the overall lines of the reorganization of the State Road Service, as proposed by the Government and with the connection of the Stortinget. This includes, inter alia, the management part. De-manning from approx. 5 000 to approx. 4000 annual works, emigration of approx. 150 jobs from the Oslo Road Directorate, breakdown by five regions and about 30 road offices, as well as a network of branches. This provides an efficiency gain that allows more of its resources to be shifted from administration to operation and investment in the road network. It also gives closeness to users, while exploiting and developing the local skills and skills acquired by all today’s 19 road offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1805	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that this is part of the Government’s Public Sector Efficiency Programme. And throughout this whole process, the road director has been clear on behalf of the department, first by giving a solid reason that we are still going to have a state road system, then by proposing five regions and finally by proposing the location of these regional offices. Is the conversion work in the State Road Service now completely wasted?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1810	On the contrary. This reorganisation and efficiency improvement are important, necessary and well underway. This work is great, and it is extensive. The location of the regional office is a small bit of a large image to be placed in place. In this context, the location of the regional office was a matter to be decided by the Minister for Transport. In the broad context in which we have a review of the modernisation of the public sector and have as our objective the use of different parts of the country, I did not find it necessary to add these regional offices to the areas most under pressure in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1815	I thank you again for the answer. I have registered that this rationalization would amount to approx. 400 million. NOK, which was to be new money in the way. Can the Council of State now explain to me how much money is going to be made of this conversion? For now it's become district policy, and it's going to cost a lot of money to take these jobs away from where they are today and over to new places. So how much fresh money will get into this conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1820	Now we live in a time where we have great flexibility in both where we work, when we work and how we work. There's a lot of ways to communicate with each other. Fortunately, we don't necessarily have to travel physically all the time. These regional offices will be responsible for coordination and administrative responsibility in relation to the work on regional issues relating to transport challenges. There will still be a high level of competence in terms of regional challenges at individual road offices in the counties. Here, there is a great efficiency gain to be gained, and it is equally well taken care of with the location of these regional offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1830	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Inside. S. No 318 for 2000-2001 is called on page 6 of a Consolent Municipal Committee, ‘a policy that makes it attractive for residents to live in the districts’. Will the Council of State act to ensure an offensive district policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1839	I think I can start by echoing the previous questions and answers-round – it turns out that in some areas, the Government has some radical action in relation to following up on what is going on in the field of regional policy, and in particular the location of jobs. Both small and large, the Government is already doing a great deal to strengthen regional policy. This is done, inter alia: by increasing the focus on the general framework conditions for business. We have already joined in the budget to remove the airport tax, to remove the dividend tax, to improve the tax credit system for companies' research and development expenditure and to increase appropriations for transport. This is also part of rural and regional policy. We will also continue to work to strengthen the economy of municipalities, so that they can offer good public service to both residents and businesses. In addition, we will strengthen the county council as a regional development actor. This will be achieved through increased delegation of instruments and minor designation and detailed management of the frameworks of county municipalities. I also want to mention the Government's work on outsourcing state jobs. Here we will undertake a survey of state agencies that are suitable for relocation from Oslo, and evaluate tasks that can equally be carried out outside the capital. In addition, we will focus more on the selective regional and regional policy instruments. We want an offensive commitment to innovation and good regional value creation environments to increase the ability of businesses to compete at both national and international levels. These are actions that together will contribute to ensuring the settlement, value creation and viability of communities throughout the country. A more detailed review of the individual elements and the main line of government's regional and regional policy will come back to us in the annual report that I will hold in the Stortinget on 30 April this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1846	The Bondevik II government has made dramatic cuts in regional policy instruments. 700 million. Total of what can be called direct action, municipal nutrition funds, which in 2000 contributed to 979 new businesses and 1,810 jobs, are zero out, SND has been reduced by a total of DKK 1.7 billion and special support schemes to stimulate more women and young people to work in the district have been removed. Then the municipal minister has signaled less to the smallest municipalities for the benefit of the big ones. She has signalled change in the Husbank's framework, which will also go beyond the construction of housing in the districts, and we know that the budget involves reduced transfers to agriculture. There is good reason to ask: What kind of offensive is the Council of State going to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1853	There is also good reason to ask questions about what is needed to create a living and viable society throughout Norway. Is it the selective instruments and the individual things that the representative is now talking about, or is it primarily that we are generating growth in the whole of the Norwegian economy? I believe that many of the measures under general framework conditions are measures that will also have a significant impact in District Norway. And why do I do that? Well, that's because so much of the value creation in Norway is actually happening in District Norway already, many of the jobs in District Norway are actually related to value-creating activities, and the conditions for value-creating activities are going to be crucial for the further settlement. But this includes, among other things: One element that is quite important, and that is to make sure that we have proper access to qualified labour for the industry we have in District Norway. That is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also announced that we are going to expand and strengthen the cooperation mechanism for Russian workers in the fishing industry, as a simple example.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1860	I assume that the Council of State has registered the surprise and disappointment that exist in many district municipalities because it doesn't seem to give them the opportunities for the future they depend on for the future, for the benefit of the big community, to exploit water power, food production, fisheries, etc. I want to challenge the Council of State on two points. Will it withdraw the signals it has given when it concerns the local economy and the smaller municipalities, and thus canceled what now seems to be the case, that the right's election exposure for a better school only applies to the large municipalities? It was the one. The second is, will it commit itself from the position it has, in order to go a lot more means of transport, so that the 3,000 who are leaving today, and all the facilities that are at rest, can be used for the benefit of the districts in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1867	What I've been saying about the issue of resources is that we have some problems in cities related to drugs, psychiatry and immigration issues – social problems that we have to find a solution to. We'll do that, among other things. by requiring larger cities to do a job in this area. In order for them to do so, it must also be included as part of the criterion system in the income system. So I've said that if we change the criteria, that means, of course, that you weigh the district criteria a little bit less and the city criteria a little bit more. It's a natural consequence. This does not mean that it will be smaller for the municipalities as such, but – as we have said – that a greater share of the growth will come in the larger cities. I would like to remind you that there aren't many weeks since I answered the rune J. Skylaaen of a question related to bets on the cities, and he said that the Center Party also believed that cities had to have the opportunity to solve these problems. But if we use the critique system and not just politics and spread out the money at the top, it will mean a greater emphasis on cities. The right and the government are going to give more money for transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1879	I have the following questions for the Municipal and Regional Councils: ‘Many, both elderly and disabled, consider their own apartments in municipal bus and service centres to be an appropriate offer. At Lindås bus and service centre in the municipality of Lindås, the inhabitants have been informed that from the summer they get extra rent from 3,125 kroner to 4,500 kroner per person. month. Although some are entitled to supports, this is still a dramatic increase for many. Do the inhibitors have to be found in such a increment, or are there restrictions here?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1888	The question from the representative Hagesetter refers to concrete rental increases in the municipality of Lindås. I do not know the conditions there and therefore cannot decide on them. Out of respect for municipal autonomy, I would not have done so either. However, on a general basis, I can provide the following information on the limits of rental increases. It is the house rental law that regulates the access to the lease fixing and change of the rental. The law has no special rules for letting in municipal rental dwellings. The general rules of the House Rental Act will therefore also apply to such rental conditions. Section 4-1 of the House Rental Act states that, at the time of the conclusion of a new lease, the parties may agree on normal market rental. Thereafter, in the following three years, the rental can only be changed in accordance with similar changes in the consumer price index, and the rental can only be changed once a year. This is the result of Section 4-2 of the House Rental Act. After a period of three years, the rental can be adjusted according to the rent of the assembly, cf. Section 4-3 of the House Rental Act. The average level of rentals for similar dwellings in the municipality is the one used for the rest of the year. If the parties disagree on what is rental, they may refer to the local property court, which will then appoint a tariff to settle the dispute. If the lessee has paid too much in rent in relation to these rules, the lessee may claim the unlawful amount refunded with interest for late payment. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs recommends that municipalities use a house rental that covers the costs actually incurred by the municipality to provide the housing. As the representative, Mr Hagesetter, was also involved, residents with low incomes and high housing costs would be able to receive state housing support. Many municipalities have also introduced a municipal housing support scheme as a complement to the state. I think that's good. However, it is very important for the resident to receive information and guidance on the possibility of state and municipal housing support in case of a house rent increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1901	I would first like to thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, this is not a particular issue for the municipality of Lindås. Many older people around the country experience similar shock experiences in the form of extra rent. When the Council of State now says that the Ministry recommends that rents should cover actual costs, it means that any aid — i.e. government support - to build these dwellings should be deducted before calculating actual costs? And has a rule on how to calculate the actual costs, what the interest rate is going to be. ? Governments indicate that many elderly people have the right to housing support. In this context, does the Council of State have no objections to many older people becoming dependent on housing support, and therefore does the State also finance large parts of the municipal housing auxiliaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1912	In general, I believe that we should have a house rental law that is the same, whether you are older or young, in relation to, for example. that you have a municipal rental relationship. An important part of cleaning up the subsidy systems in terms of housing, in order to get through-flows so that we are targeted at those who actually have a need, has been to say that we should have individual-oriented subsidies, rather than housing subsidies through the rent. This means that the person who actually needs a lower housing cost receives it through state or municipal housing support schemes rather than through a generally subsidised rental. Therefore, we recommend that municipalities have cost coverage as the basis for which rentals they take. We don't make detailed regulations for this area, because the rental determination is based on what the rental law actually says, and that I've referred to in my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1921	The Council of State indicates that the osb should be rented. But she also mentions that one recommends the municipality to use a rent that covers the actual costs the municipality has. That's when I don't have a bunch of ways to figure out these actual costs. Something else is that a lot of the elderly and the disabled move into these dwellings and figure out that they can afford to stay there. Then, as in this case, they get a 44 pst. rent, which they were not represented when they moved in. I want to ask the Council of State to be observant when it comes to these issues in the future, so that the older people don't feel economically confused, that they get too weak an economy, with the negative consequences it can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1928	In fact, I thought that both the Right and the Advance Party agreed on the main principle underlying the legislation we have today, namely that subsidies should be targeted at those who have the greatest problems, regardless of age, and that older people do not come into a very special category. That is why we should have a system in which we primarily use housing schemes for those who have the biggest economic problems, rather than us, for example. uses the age criterion. We're going to follow up on what's going on in the rental market, among other things. because we have an attempt in Oslo to have an easier dispute resolution. We have a housing dispute committee that will make it easier than going to the local district court, and we will then assess, among other things. whether it is an instrument to be used in other parts of the country, when we have looked at that evaluation. But I am not going to go away from the main principles behind the rental law that is today, in relation to questions relating to the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1938	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘HV weapons shall be kept at home but shall be equipped with a lock and the ammunition shall be stored centrally, means a selection reduced by the Defence Command. The undersigned is of the strong opinion that this will impair the action of the HV and not least significantly increase the response time. What will the Council of State do with this, so that HV's crews can do their job as intended?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1947	Home security is part of the military defense. Traditionally, the Home Security mission has been to ensure vital community installations and the mobilisation of defence sectors in the neighbourhood. As a result of the end of the Cold War, the mobilization part of the Defense has become less and less, and the Home Security has therefore gained a new role. Today, Home Security is an important part of our territorial defence. After the transition has been completed, the importance of Home Affairs will have increased further. The emergency requirement after 11 September would not have been met in a good way without having had the Home Protection System. Rapidly and efficiently put the Home Guard at post around objects where there could be a danger of terrorist attacks. Especially when securing our fighter planes, it was demonstrated what an invaluable resource Home Security is in a crisis situation. The shooting squad at Geilo, however, showed us that the high level of preparedness has a shadow side. The concept of having the Home Guard soldiers have their automatic weapons and ammunition stored in their homes at all times always poses a danger that the weapon may be misused. Although there are few cases of abuse compared with the 83 000 in power, this is a situation we have to take seriously, for Home Security should mean security for society, not insecurity. That is why I am concerned that we need to have optimal security related to the stockpiling of weapons and better procedures for handling the crews who are to have this important defence task. At the same time, such measures must be balanced against any disadvantages in the form of impaired preparedness and reduced the ability to use rapid arms forces against an enemy. I understand that it is this balance that the questioner is also concerned about. Getting to a final conclusion will necessarily take some time. The chairperson of the Defence Committee, in writing, of 15 January 2002, underlined the need to see the whole of the case complex in an overall context and to provide feedback to the Stortinget in such a form. I am pleased that the Defence and Ministry are thus given an opportunity for a thorough review before the Stortinget is briefed on such an important matter. An internal selection in the Defence Command has recommended that the weapons remain in the home, but with a lock. According to the sample, the keys to the enclosure lock and ammunition should not be stored with the individual. What the Ministry of Defence finally recommends will be reflected in the proposition put forward in the spring, in line with the wishes of the Defence Committee, by the Chairman. Until then, I will be responsive to all the good suggestions on how to arrive at the best result. Not least, I want to listen attentively to those who wear the shoe for daily use and who are responsible for the personnel of the Home Security Agency. I am thinking in particular of the Chief of Defense and the Inspector-General of Homeland Protection and what these two give me of concrete recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1962	I thank the Council of State for a good and complementary answer. Amongst the approx. 83,000 soldiers in Homeland may be soldiers with unstable psyche who pose a safety risk when they have ready-to-use automatic weapons and a few hundred shots in the locker. We agree on that. But as it stands in the name, the Home Guard is to be the most local defense department – ready for battle in a few hours and with defined security objects until the rest of the Defense is able to mobilize. Does the Council not see that these proposals for a lock on the chamber and a key held by another person, and ammunition stored a while away, mean that not least the response time increases and that the ability to carry out the mission of the Home Guard can become problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1971	I see that the representative points to something very important, namely the fast response time. That was also the background that I was initially skeptical about the proposal for central stockpiles of weapons. I think such central stockpiles can often be tempting for criminal groups to try on, plus that it gives us an unacceptable long response time. The art is to find the good mix. I know that in Denmark it has just been decided to store HV ammunition centrally, while Sweden has already introduced a lock, because these countries have also had similar developments and similar sad examples to those we have had in Norway. When I come back to the Committee and the Storting with a recommendation, just questions about the response time will be one of the factors I focus on getting good answers to, as well as that we always have to improve our ability to remove the clearance and the ability to have weapons for those who have either used drugs or who we know have an unstable psyche.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1982	I thank you once again for your answer. This finding a good mix I think is important. Otherwise, a chamber-locked weapon in the home corresponds to a plummeted weapon or a weapon without end piece. That is, there is no usable weapon in the home if the HV-man does not have the key or the end piece himself. The law that HVs should have weapons at home, adopted by Stortinget, is obviously about weapons in the meaning of usable weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1989	I would like to add briefly that, as far as the Home Guard Act is concerned, it says that Home Guard soldiers should keep and maintain their weapons. But it is not explicitly stated that they should have the weapon at home. Before we conclude, I think it is important to get the experiences and assessments that have been made in our neighbouring country. Denmark is also a close ally, and I believe that in the case of legislation of this kind, we have everything to gain from having legislation that is quite similar to the one they have in a country with which there is reason to compare. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are naturally concerned with the reaction time. It's one of the things I'd like to ask the Inspector-General for the Homeland Protection and the Chief of Defense to pay special attention to when they make their recommendation to the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e1998	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-13.ana.ud1440e2009	There is no record.
