ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e38	The representatives Grethe Fossli, Søren Fredrik Voie, Bent Höie and Aud Gaundal, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Requests for leave to attend the Council of Europe Refugee Committee in Italy are submitted by the representative André Kvakkestad on 29 and 30 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e69	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e74	I propose Finn Martin Vallersnes and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e79	Finn Martin Vallersnes and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e93	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines with up to 5 lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e104	This combination proposition contains a lot of things, sometimes big things. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are somewhat critical to the fact that such major issues as the conversion of the production department to the State Road Service and three to some controversial toll projects are concentrated in one proposition. In addition, there are a lot of smaller issues that belong to the home in a collective proposition. When it comes to the hold of new bomb projects, of which there are three in this proposition, we see the Innst. S. No 134, where a number request a review of toll projects in order to identify clearer frameworks and guidelines for such projects. We haven't had anything against them in the past, but there have been many such projects that vary quite strongly when they apply to them. toll ratio and toll sets. When it comes to the conversion of the Vegvesen, it is known that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre were opposed to a conversion to AS. They added to the Road Service after many years of work, they had come up with a scheme to convert into a divisional model. This took care of them, but at the same time took great care of the interests of society. A number of them decided in the fall that an AS was to be created by the production department in the State Road Service. We had not thought that this matter would come into this conspiracy proposition, but that it would come as a matter of its own, and not exactly with other matters. Today I know that there is a new case on the table, St.prp. No 60, which takes some other elements. When much of the decisions are linked to the fact that this is not taken until the budget in the fall, I understand that they are added quite stated, and that they are uncertain as to how the future will be. I'm not going to say anything more about it now than that we started to ask some questions to the Council of State about the soundness of this transformation, because we wanted the Storting to be informed about what this cost and how to ensure that in the next round it also tasted, i.e. that one got more way for the money – not as it seems in the first round, that one takes the money from the way to the change. But we will come back to this, both later today in the hearing with the Council of State and in connection with St.prp. No 60. In spite of these objections, I now mention, we have chosen not to go against the share capital, because there is a majority that wants to have a share company, a limited liability company must have a share capital, so it supports me. So for the bomb project. It has been the case in Stortinget that a large majority have supported the toll projects or partly toll-funded projects, given that there is considerable support for this locally and regionally, i.e. at the state level. That is the case with the project Rv 9 Seatesdalen, and that is the case with the project Rv 661 new bridge over the Straumen in Skodje municipality in Møre and Romsdal. But one project in this proposition differed, namely Rv 70 Nordsundbrua–Løkkemyra, a new route to Kristiansund in More and Romesdal. There have been great discussions in Kristiansund about this, and there are many signatures that one does not want this project. And then for once it's not the toll scheme that you're against, but the project itself. It is the road solution itself, the bombing itself, which is opposed to much of the population. We have tried from the Labour Party's side to get into this to the best of our ability, and we have come to the conclusion that this protest is huge, because we think the project is bad reason. In a region where they have tolls in search and logging, one must at least be careful not to create new projects that may not solve the problems but rather push them ahead. The working party found out quite early that we went against this. While the committee was dealing with the cases, the city council in Kristiansund had the cases up again, and the majority turned around. So then the majority have to send the case back to the council. The majority decision taken in Kristiansund now last says that the previous decision is lifted, that toll collection is suspended for new entry routes, and that the cases are re-assessed when Krifast is paid down. We understand that. The majority have asked the Council of State to come back to Stortinget with this. Of course, we don't mind that, but we hope that there will be solutions that have greater local support in that context. There are a number of organisational changes in certain areas of transport – in telecommunications and within the Post Office. In the Workers' Party – and I believe we have been largely in agreement with the SV and the Centre on the comments – we have suggested that this has been done in cooperation with both the rental and the addition of these companies, and that a solution be found to the extent that one should sell out, separate or go in cooperation with others, that they be added to reasonable conditions, and that they have equivalent conditions of competition with those with whom they are to compete. Then I won't use any more of this sad morning morning to tell you what we mean about this. But as I said, largely there is support for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e137	This landfill proposal addresses many different issues in the transport sector. These include road issues, specific transport measures, accessibility of transport and postal and telecommunications services. I would like to refer to some of the issues in question in my article. We have three issues that deal with road projects with partial toll financing. On the right, there is a principle in favour of partial toll financing for new road projects, namely that the project must be anchored at the local level, i.e. that there must be a majority in the local government concerned and in the county council. All such projects are today adopted by the Stortinget. The working party has indicated that they will consider other ways of dealing with matters, such as: to delegate the tasks to the county. The right-hand side is opposite a change. We want to continue the existing toll project approval procedure. Nevertheless, the county will have an important role to play, but it is necessary that enlargement and government have an opportunity to make priorities between different road sections and different road projects in order to ensure an appropriate prioritisation of road sections and areas around the counties. One of the projects is Rv 9 Setesdalen. This is an important road map linking the Aggregates and inner parts of Rogaland, Hordaland and Telemark. The road also connects the E18/E39 coastal line with the ferries terminal in Kristiansand to the road network in internal parts of neighbouring regions via E134 at Haukligrend. Parts of Rv9 have a very poor standard, especially in terms of road width. I look forward to a quick launch and completion of Rv 9. This would be positive for the individual driver, for the transport industry and the tourism industry in these areas. This is also in line with all the municipal governments involved and with the county municipality, which is East-Agder. The Ministry of Transport proposes the possibility of collecting tolls for the partial toll financing of Rv 661 new bridge over the Straumen in the municipality of Skodje in Møre and Romsdal. Existing Skodje Bru is from 1920 and in poor condition. Restrictions have been imposed on traffic over the bridge. Heavy traffic, including buses, must therefore pass through the Skodje Centre. This increases the road distance between the areas north of existing Skodjebru and Ålesund by about 10 km. In addition to providing additional services to road users, this results in heavy transit traffic for the centre of Skodje. All four municipalities of Skodje, Haram, Ålesund and Sandøy have taken decisions in accordance with the AS Skodjebrua and Statens vägvesen regulations. More and Romsdal County supported the unanimous project. The second project is Rv 70 Nordsundbrua – Løkkemyra, a new route to Kristiansund in More and Romesdal – partly toll financing. With the development that Kristiansund is facing, this is due to a higher traffic growth than in the rest of the Moors and the Romsdal. Therefore, the Right believes that it is important to get an entryway to the city that will become more roadworthy and much better for the local environment. Both Kristiansund City Council and More and Romsdal County concluded on the application when it was sent to the Department for Treatment. Later, more specifically on 7 May 2002, the decision was converted into Kristiansund City Council. The matter had already been discussed in the committee. The right is in favour of the application concerning the project, but a new situation has arisen after the City Council meeting in Kristiansund. At the same time, the decision in Mr More and Mr Romsdal stands by law. We will therefore await an assessment of the project from the Government, and ask the Government to come back with a briefing to the Stortinget. In the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2002, the Stortinget decided to convert the Road Administration’s production department into a State limited liability company. In this context and for the further process, it is important to establish an interim company which may represent the company before its very establishment. The permanent company is expected to be in place on 1 January 2003. The main task of the Interim Company in the future will be, inter alia, to: to be appointed to the Executive Director and the other senior management. We will return to the transformation itself in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 60. Finally, I just want to say a little bit about the Post. The right considers that Post Norway BA must have the freedom to organise its operations in a cost-effective way, and we are positive that the Post uses tenders for the purchase of goods and services. We have registered that the business of Posten Servicepartner AS is not part of the core business of Posten Norge BAs, and have no objection that Posten Norge BA will sell its remaining holding of 51 pst. in Posten Servicepartner AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e171	St. pp. No 50 contains a number of different cases in the Department of Transport. I'll briefly mention some of them. The first concerns the reorganisation of the Road Administration. I'm not going to say so much about it today, just that we agree that it's going to be a share company, and we support it in this way. So it's also in this bleaching, as usual, a lot of new toll projects. And they start getting close as hail. Here we've actually got three things about three new toll collection stations. Two of them we go against. The only one we can be on is Rv. 661 new bridge over Straumen in Skodje municipality. The reason is that here's the possibility of a roundabout. The drivers have a choice in relation to what they can do, whether they want to drive on a new bridge and road and pay, or whether they want to drive on an old bypass and not pay. The other two toll projects are against us. We've had the same reason in so many cases that it's almost thirteen to repeat it, that today the state takes in practically almost 45 billion kroner from the drivers, and we all know how little goes out again – unfortunately. Today the toll collection has reached a total of DKK 2.5 billion, which we think is quite unheard of in a country that is among the world's richest. In addition, toll collection is an overly expensive way of building roads in Norway. We don't have any sense of putting the whole three toll projects into a pool, like this. Finally, I would like to make a suggestion, which is included on page 8 of the setting: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide the State budget for 2003 to ensure that the reimbursement of the car diesel tax for express buses is established in order to meet the real needs.’ This is justified by the fact that the only people in the transport sector who do not currently receive subsidies – or state aid, as we say – are the express buses. Therefore, we think it is real that they should have refunded the fee, in line with the other bus companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e187	Thore A. Nistad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. The president would point out to the representative that a position by the Committee on Transport deserves a more reverent mention than the term ‘blekka’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e192	I take the floor to comment on the part of the matter that goes on the reorganisation of the Vegvesen. As far as the other issues in this position are concerned, we support the majority vote of the Committee on Transport. As far as Vegvesen is concerned, the case at this stage concerns an allocation of NOK 100000 for the establishment of an interim company, a preparatory company, for the establishment of a road transport company – AS. It could normally be an outrageous matter, but what characterises this reorganisation is that it is implemented in strong conflict with the employees of the Road Administration and their organisations, as well as that the Minister of Transport does not seem to know what it will cost to transform the Road Administration into AS. To take the last one first, it seems more than odd that the government didn't know what it would cost to reorganize. When the Stortinget dealt with the state budget, the reorganisation of the Road Administration was justified by the fact that it would bring considerable efficiency gains, and that we would get more money. On the other hand, the management of the road system concluded that the conversion to an AS would be more expensive, and that, as far as I recall, only two countries had made AS of their road system. New Zealand was probably one country. The countries that had assessed doing this, among others: Sweden, concluded that it was not a reasonable solution, and went away from it. We should be able to expect when the Government and the majority decided this – against most recommendations – that they knew what they were doing, but they did not know that. Maybe it'll cost between 600 and 700 million. kr, maybe it'll be $2 billion, maybe it'll be more. The question is then: how should expenditure be covered? Will there be savings on the road budgets? Will there be less road construction and road maintenance in the coming years? The reorganisation is in conflict with and conflicts with employees’ organisations. Uncertainty is felt in relation to acquired rights. What will happen to pension contracts? Employee organisations express considerable uncertainty about the situation that has arisen. In general, there is a complaint about lack of information, and there is a threat – I see in the VG today – to actions. Then I would like to remind the Minister of Transport that Minister of Labour and Administration Victor D. Norman, in his ‘Declaration of Accession’ here in Stortinget, stated that a prerequisite for success in the reorganisation was that the employees were involved and that the employees were motivated. And it was well formulated as if it were the government's policy in relation to the future reorganisations of public activities. It does not have the power of the Minister of Transport in relation to the employees of the Vegvesen and the employees’ organisations. From the SV's point of view, the message to the Minister for Transport is very clear: clean up in relation to employees' organisations, inform and create security in relation to pension agreements, in relation to acquired rights. Something else we won't accept. As for the vagueness and unclear economic situation, I will come back to it later today in connection with St.prp. No 60 for 2001-2002, which we also work with in the Committee. But I note that it is not an overview of the economic consequences. For our part in 2003 and in the coming years, we will not accept that these clearly increased expenditures may go beyond future road maintenance and future investment in the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e207	This is an aggregate document with many partly different subject areas, including three different toll projects, where the majority wish to continue the existing procedure from previously approved installations. We therefore follow the recommendations of the municipalities and the counties in their desire for a necessary commitment to these projects. This applies to new bridges over the Straumen in the municipality of Skodje, and Rv 9 in Bygland and Hornnes, where the majority support the implementation of the projects on the basis of the submission from the department. As regards the new approach to Kristiansund, the majority in Stortinget, including the Right, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, are in favour of the application to build this facility by, among others, putting into service. toll financing. However, the majority of the Committee now finds that a new situation has arisen in the Kristiansund City Council, not later than 7 May this year. We have to recognise from this that a scarce majority of Kristiansund City Council wants to postpone the project. Personally, and on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I regret this, because Kristiansund needs this project in order to improve the reach of the city. The majority of the population will therefore recommend, as evidenced by the documents, that on this basis a new assessment of this project is awaited by the Government. However, I hope that Kristiansund will succeed in getting as good a plant as it is required to do. As regards compensation for car diesel charges for bus operations, the Right and Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal at this point, and also the transformation of postal and telecommunications supervision into a new limited liability company. Our opinion is that Posten Norway BA must have the freedom to organise its operations in the most cost-effective way possible. This is what the Post will do. However, Posten Servicepartner AS will not enter the core business of Posten Norge BA. It's an important point to be aware of. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party assumes that the transformation that is now taking place within the service of the Post must take place within the framework of the provisions of the Working Environment Act. We view this as a matter of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e218	I want to link only a few short notes to some of the individual issues in the Innst. S. No 180. I am quite in agreement with the case spokespersons that the aggregate proposition that underlies the setting contains several things that could be usefully presented as own matters, yes, the one should have been presented as his own matter. I'll come back to that. Three of the individual cases are toll projects. The centre party has had a positive attitude to support partial toll financing of road projects. But we believe that it may be necessary – after having spent toll funding for many years – to review toll projects in order to arrive at clearer frameworks and guidelines for such projects. Therefore, we are together with the Workers' Party and SV to ask for such a review. One of the toll cases is the partial toll financing of Rv 9 through Setesdal. It is a comprehensive case of the development of many parcels, and there must therefore be many details in the dossier. But this is an extension that is important to get implemented. And with the local solutions and the local connection, the Center Party is in favour of that toll project. We also join the toll project for new bridge over the Straumen in the municipality of Skodje. There is also local and county membership. The third toll project mentioned is a new route to Kristiansund. It's a project where it has our local battle, but it has our plural decisions for the project, both locally and in the state. And that was the situation when the committee started working on matters. As we became aware that the City Council in Kristiansund has made a new decision, where the majority are moving towards the project, the Center Party joined the Committee majority, which will wait for an assessment of the project from the Government side. The last thing I want to comment on is the reorganization of the production business in the State Roadway of a limited liability company. I believe that this matter should have been dealt with in another way. Now we get one thing, which we know is going to come, divide and put into different compilation propositions, even though the Council of State in a reply to the committee has said that the matter will be presented in a holistic and collective way. But here we get it piece by piece, divided into different approximations. In addition, things will be very late in the session. The case has been known to come, everything from the large majority during the last budget management has been decided on the organisation we are now managing. I think that the case is too big and too important for society, and also too serious for them to add, so that the handling it is put up to now can be defended. For Stortinget, it is by no means satisfying to get such a case late in the year – and divided in the way we now see. But in the Center Party, we are determined that, together with the majority in Stortinget, we should do our best to ensure that the matter is at least no longer delayed than what the Government has put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e237	I have noticed that there have recently been some claims through the media related to the reorganisation of the State Road Service. I've tried not to comment on this in the media. I believe that part of the debate that has been going on there belongs in this room, so I would like to be allowed to clarify both errors and ambiguities in that context. First of all, I would like to stress that there have been meetings between the trade unions and the department, among other things. I even had a meeting on March 8th this year. I do not know if it is the date that makes you choose to forget this meeting, but at least it was completed. The proposition includes relationships relating to the Interim Company for the production of the Road Administration of the State, which is part of the conversion of the production activity into an AS. I want to use this opportunity to comment on part of this transformation. Let me say a little bit about the position of the employees, because I have recorded the concerns expressed by the employees' organisations, relating to future working conditions. This applies in particular to the continuation of the State waiting and priority pay system, membership of the State Pension Fund and the provision of early retirement for older employees. In the case of waiting and priority wages and salaries, the Government wishes that, in the event of separation of State activities, employees be granted temporary rights to waiting and priority pay, under the Civil Service Act, for three years from the date of conversion. The scheme must be regulated and thus adopted by the Stortinget. The government will propose that the scheme should include employees of the current state road service transferred to the company who are currently entitled to wait and priority pay. There is no formal obstacle to membership of the State Pension Fund. This is something that management and employees' organisations have become familiar with. In my opinion, the choice of a pension scheme is primarily a matter for the board of directors of the new company. Since the issue of a pension scheme is of major importance for employees, it is clear that the new company can apply for membership of the State Pension Fund – either as a transitional arrangement until the board decides otherwise in dialogue with the employees’ organisations or as a longer-term scheme. I see the need to use early retirement as a conversion tool for a limited period of time with the age composition of employees in the Road Administration’s manufacturing activities. I find it appropriate for the company to have the opportunity to offer employees transferred to the limited liability company a retirement pension of 60 years old for a period of three years, from 1 January 2003. The scheme shall apply where an employee would not be entitled to an ordinary occupational pension or a contractual pension and shall be based on an individual assessment. We are facing a very large and comprehensive reorganisation. However, I would like to remind you that the transformation into AS itself does not have significant costs in itself. However, the efficiency and adaptability of turnover and manning resulting from competitive outsourcing involve a high level of conversion and high costs. For me, the costs that have arisen in this context are a signal that Norwegian taxpayers have for a long time paid too much money in connection with roadside production – a signal that it is time, at a high time, that we are doing something to make road manufacturing more efficient in Norway, so that we can get more money back. We are now in the middle of this process, and I see – as I said – that the time is definitely in the process of these conversions. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee's comments on the route to Kristiansund. A majority opposed the project at the City Council meeting in Kristiansund on 7 May. The majority of the Committee on Transport points to the fact that the decision is at the same time settled in More and Romesdal, and, on this basis, asks for an assessment by the Government. I will follow up this, and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e262	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e265	I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that there is criticism from a significant minority of missing assessments, and that there is support under certain conditions, both in the case of Comlab – transfer from the Post and Telecommunications Authority to a new AS, on the outsourcing of heavy transport in the Post and the sale of Posten Servicepartner AS. I ask the Council of State to comment on this. Then to the Road Service: Here's a discussion about two things. One is the cost of the transfer throughout the Road Service, not just the production department, and the other is added to the terms, both now and in the next company. State council says she's had conversations with the addendum. Yeah, I know. But the Council of State never says when these conversations are broken, and the breach of contact, as it has been, both with the Directorate of Road, with the Council of State itself and the Ministry of Transport. I think the Council of State minimizes that they added are so frustrated in this process, because I actually thought it was so that they were the most important resource in this. It may well be that the council thinks it's just getting them away, because then we get a cheaper way, that it's a lurking solution. I would also like to ask the question whether the Council of State sees that the Road Administration in Norway has a great competence, which one should take care of as best as possible, for the benefit of us who live in this country. But the most important question for me is: why the sour – excuse me for the expression, President – has it taken six months to bring the first case to the Stortinget? Does the Council of State think that this way of dealing with this matter is correct? Half a year after it's been set and half a year before it's to be implemented, take a little bit, and then take another, and the most important thing is to be done in the autumn. Does the Council of States think it is to show respect for the Storting? And does the Council of State think that it is showing respect for them to add?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e280	With regard to the matters referred to by the representative Starrfeld, I have noticed the views of the others in the committee. But I have also noticed the support of the majority of the government's proposals. I am willing to engage in dialogue with the employees of the State Road Administration. And let's be clear: I view the employees as a resource. It is my intention that we should have a strong state road transport company AS – hopefully with a completely different name, because it is hopeless to say. I'm set up for a dialogue. I have not broken any dialogue with the employees. They have received a promise to continue some rights, which I was inside instead. Nor do I aim to reduce the number of employees. I would like to remind you that the government of Stoltenberg also presented a proposal on conversions in the state road system. Also, it was stressed that there is a need for adjustments and quite dramatic changes. It's in the middle of the process we're now in, and this shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone. The reason why we have to worry about this is that there has been a discussion of whether these conversion costs that we are now going to gradually ensure quality and present to the Storting properly are negative or positive for the transformation. I would like to say that the greater the cost of conversion, the stronger the signal is that this has been neglected earlier in terms of conversion. The longer you wait, the more expensive and expensive a conversion becomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e293	I am not going to say anything about the reorganisation of the Road Administration, because we will return to that at the hearing in the committee later today. I just want to say that I fully support the Council of State's conclusion that the greater the cost of conversion, the more it shows that the transition has been necessary. We've lost a lot of money on it over the years. What I want to ask is on express buses. We have a proposal in connection with that in the vote, where we want to increase the grant to express buses. I was at Notodden yesterday. There is one express bus every half an hour going into town in the daytime, and in the evening it goes every hour. It's actually a surplus business, and it doesn't pay five flat ears in grants. The express buses actually contribute to the state treasury both in the form of diesel taxes and other taxes on the purchase and operation of buses. For example, let's go. to Gjøvik, where the train is running, there are two to three hours between each train departure at daytime. There is much worse supply than in the case of express buses, and the State contributes significantly to the operation of such passenger transport. So here we have two options set up against each other. One is profitable, and it contributes to the treasury. The second is very unprofitable, it receives subsidies from the state fund, and it also offers a lower supply to the population in the area. The progress party was in the state budget to ensure that 29 million were allocated. NOK to the express buses in the form of a return of some of the taxes they pay in the diesel charge. But even if we did, this led to an increase in the price of the express buses. Will the State Council address this in connection with the State budget and increase the refund of diesel tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e308	In the case of express buses, this government sees it as positive that it is possible to drive express buses here in the country, and that they can also be operated commercially. Of course, it is an important aspect and a goal that many people choose to travel by express bus instead of driving their own cars. In this way, we will achieve a better transport standard, and we can improve the environment. The relationship between express buses and railways is such that on the railway side we buy services because we want this offer to exist for various reasons – both for transport standard reasons and not least for environmental reasons. My objective is that express buses should continue to operate commercially and that there should be no need to provide grants for this type of operation. With regard to the railway, it will continue to be an objective for people to choose to travel by rail for different reasons, not least due to the environmental aspects. If we take an example from the city we live in, there will be no room to replace all rail traffic with express buses – for spatial reasons it will not be desirable. It would be desirable for us to have an infrastructure and a transport system that works on the railway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e317	There are questions about this with the reorganisation of the Road Administration. It is true that no one has disagreed that it has been right to carry out a process to streamline the Road Service. There has been a process that management and employee organisations have carried out over a long period of time, and a recommended solution that the Government and the majority of the population would not address. There is great doubt and direct disagreement about the reorganization of AS will be correct, and whether it will lead to savings. There is great doubt that tenders will make it more reasonable, and there is considerable uncertainty about the consequences, especially in relation to District Norway and road maintenance in the future, of this way of reorganising. So the reorganisation could have been done in a different way, in cooperation with employees' organisations. What I would like to ask the Minister very specifically is: what will the Minister for Transport do in order to carry out the reorganisation in the future in line with the declaration made by the Council of State, Mr D. Norman, at the beginning of this year in Stortinget, that is, to motivate employees to join in, to motivate employees to cooperate? What will be done in the future to enter into dialogue and to carry out the reorganisation as previously declared by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e326	Let it be clear that I do not see that the time is right for a rematch on the issue of the reorganization of the functioning of the State Road Service to AS. That decision has been made, and there are many good reasons for it. Now we're going to do this conversion the best possible way. I want to motivate employees to participate in that reorganization, but I would like to stress that it is not the right way it is presented in the media, that no answer has been given to questions that have arisen. I have now explained a number of areas in which answers have been given to employees about rights in relation to the reorganisation. Of course, I want the employees to be involved, and that there should be a powerful production business that can compete with others, so that we get the most money we spend on the road sector. There are many challenges, and there are many new challenges, and there are ways we can facilitate competition, which enables them to strengthen their position. The production activities of the Road Administration of the State are now given the opportunity to participate in other markets and to strengthen both the competence and the turnover of the business, an opportunity which they would lack by means of a divisional model, for which the previous government agreed. So I mean, here's a lot of possibilities. I would like to engage in dialogue to motivate the employees further, while stressing that the Government has met the employees in a number of fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e337	I would also like to ask questions about the implementation of the reorganisation of the State Road Administration. It is a comprehensive conversion to be implemented. There are very many, and frustration is great. We have known about the transformation for over six months, and little has been done before now in May. And now we get the transformation process as small elements in different aggregation propositions. In the other transformations, it has at least come as a matter of its own. I'm thinking about the Post and the NSB, where one gets a combined proposition that goes on the transformation, as well as the odelting proposition, that applies to the changes in laws. Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt was in a little bit of the same in his first line. My question is brief and correct: does the Council of State see it justified to carry out such a comprehensive process and reorganization as is now taking place late in the spring session, and without the confidence of the elected representatives feeling that they are in it? I also hear that the Council of State says it's open to dialogue, but here it's about getting a dialogue. It's the process that's important, not just to say that one is open to it. Trustees have made it clear that they feel that you have not been given the necessary dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e346	I would like to be allowed to draw attention to the fact that there has been a continuous process both in the Ministry of Transport and in the State Road Administration after the decision was taken to transform the production business into AS. It is not true that nothing has happened at that time. There's been a lot of things happening. There has been a comprehensive process, and the process continues. With regard to the question of whether it is safe to do so as soon as possible, much of what has emerged recently indicates that this should have happened a long time ago. This is a reorganization and an activity that, according to judgment, should have happened several years ago. These are quite important signals to me in relation to how this should happen, and when it should happen. My invitation to the employees if dialogue stands by. But I am a little surprised when we have had a meeting and can read in the paper – and even when you choose to go to the newspaper and to the media first – that no meeting has taken place. Then I must say that the will for dialogue must come from both sides. I am very interested that we are going to have a powerful state road transport company manufacturing business, I am very interested in having a dialogue to motivate the employees, and I am very motivated that Norwegian taxpayers will get a lot of money back for the money we spend on road pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e357	I think it's still necessary to talk about how cooperation and contact with the employees of the State Road Service is working, because there's obviously no willingness to recognise what conditions are like. On 22 May, employees of the State Road Administration were outside the Storting and told them how they perceived reality. Their reality is now marked by uncertainty because they don't know what's going to happen in the future. They are not sure that their pensions are in place, they are not sure that the financial basis for the new company is in place properly, they are not sure that they can see a future in which they can be operational within the new company in the road industry’s production activities. And that's what this is all about. It's about creating security. It's not about creating opportunities for a rematch. The council must hear the difference. And when we argue from the reality of the employees, it's not because we want the situation to be like that. But we have to tell you that this is how it gets experienced, and someone should also react to the situation. In that case, the Council of State cannot have a dialogue as its objective. Governments cannot talk about will for dialogue – verbally. Governments have to act to show that she wants dialogue, so that employees can feel it. The employees are not incompetent trust elected, the employees are highly professional – and as trust elected – competent. They know the market, they know the prerequisites for the new company to be able to function, they're a resource. And the Council of State has to take inward that in order to get these things in place within the time frame set up, you're totally dependent on the employees being involved. So the Council of State must act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e367	Now I didn't see this as a concrete question to me, but as a call for action. And that's exactly what we're doing. What's happening now is – and that's quite right – a big shift. It's a very big change, and you have to have a humility for the employees to experience a anxiety about such a dramatic change. But the transition is necessary. We have given the employees clear signals about what the Government thinks about rights that they should still have. And I'd like to go on in the process of motivating the employees so that this is going to be a powerful production business. We've been open to dialogue all along, and I'm still going to be open to dialogue. The government is effective in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e383	This means that the cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2858]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e399	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e406	Document No 8:104 for 2001-2002 is a proposal that non-profit organisations that rely on connecting equipment to carry out rescue operations for the purpose of saving life and health should refrain from paying the annual concession fee after telelove. The organisations involved make a major and important effort in the context of rescue operations. Yes, the efforts of these organisations are entirely decisive for the preparedness and rescue work, whether it is in periods of high output or it is in isolated actions at sea, in mountains or elsewhere. A lot of time and effort have been made to get money only for the operation of these organisations. In addition, the costs of equipment and participation in rescue operations come. The connection equipment is crucial for these organisations to make the effort they provide. The fee they have to pay to the Postal and Telecommunications Authority will also be a significant cost item. In fact, these organisations are receiving a budget from the Ministry of Justice, but today organisations pay about half of the amount they receive for postal and telecommunications supervision. Instead, these funds could have been a good incentive for organisations to operate. The community does not have alternatives to the efforts of these voluntary organisations. They have knowledge, experience, equipment and crews covering the whole country. Substitution of this effort would cost a great deal to society both for time and for economic resources. I have a great deal of understanding of the intention in Document No. The 8 that has been presented. But I also have objections to the proposal as it stands. By exempting some organisations from paying concession fees for connecting equipment, as proposed by the proposers, other users will have to pay a higher fee than the costs incurred by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. In other words, there will be others who will be more burdened or who will have to pay the fees. The proposers point out that the latent fee can be covered by more efficient postal and telecommunications supervision. Of course, postal and telecommunications supervision should make the most efficient operations, but savings due to efficiency should benefit all users. A number of members of the Committee, all the non-participating Progress Party, have therefore said that it is appropriate to consider whether the direct input of the organisations involved in rescue work should be increased, so that they are able to make a larger contribution to the functioning of the organisations. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are in the plural, but we've also gone one step further. We have specifically asked the Ministry of Transport to find solutions so that the rescue forums of voluntary organisations do not use the state-allocated funds to cover the concession fee for the use of communications equipment. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party is not on the comments from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Rightly, it is not the same solution as the Progress Party has pointed to, but when there are not multiples for the Progress Party's solution, I think it's a little strange that the Progress Party cannot accept a solution that would give it the same positive outcome for the non-profit organisations. I would therefore encourage the Progress Party to indicate whether they have the same attitude as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, that the most important thing is that the non-profit organisations should not pay as much of the state support they receive back to one of their government agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e427	I'm going to be pretty short, because in this case, too, the Labour Party is in agreement with the Center Party. It seems to happen again and again. I can stand behind everything the case spokesperson said. I just want to ask the Progress Game again if it's better to support our comment. We have two minorities in it. So, we have a proposal from the Progress Party that's being voted down, because we don't like the way one should cover it, and then we don't have a suggestion, but we don't have much of a comment -- we don't have much of a suggestion -- where we ask that this be arranged in the department or between departments, so that these organizations don't pay this fee. Isn't that better? I just want to encourage you to signal if they support it subsidiaryly, because it may be good for the Council of State to know in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e436	The proposal in Document No. 8:104 is angled against the charge of vital volunteer work. For this reason, the Committee also strongly agrees that such efforts should be clearly valued. We support that. However, as it emerged, it has been made clear in the Committee's examination that the proposal to exempt certain organisations in a self-financing system easily leads to cross-subsidies. This fact, of course, is what has made it difficult to join the proposal immediately. Here is a large minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, who, in a slightly cryptic joint remark, use an imposition formula for the Ministry to find solutions to meet the proposal. But it's a minority comment. So here there is no clarifying majority as the option is written, and Document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party is to be annexed to the Minutes with our support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e447	The rationale for the proposal is that NPISHs, which make a great and necessary effort in a number of areas, pay large sums in taxes to the country. Only Norway's Red Cross Help Corps has approx. 225 auxiliary corps of 12 000 authorised members carried out in 2001 approx. 450 rescue operations. In order to perform such rescue operations, the non-profit organisations are dependent on communication equipment. In addition to the costs incurred in purchasing such interconnector equipment, each non-profit organisation must also pay an annual concession fee to the country. Red Cross Help Corps pays approx. 500 000 kroner per year. year of concession fee. The organisations belonging to the Voluntary Organisations' rescue professional forums pay approx. Two million. kr in concession fee per. years. The concession fee is paid to the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. The postal and telecommunications authorities have informed that the type of connection, such as: Norway’s Red Cross is a so-called closed network requiring authorisation under the Telecommunication Act Chapter 5 and the corresponding regulations. For that type of equipment, there are different types of annual fee. The fact that fees paid by NPISHs are only higher than 1 pst. of the total revenue of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority, such payments should be eliminated without the need for compensation by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. However, the assumption is that postal and telecommunications supervision must be able to make the corresponding loss of income more effective. Two million. kr. Non-profit organisations that rely on interconnector equipment to carry out rescue operations for the purpose of saving life and health should be exempted from paying concession fees under the Telecom Act. It should therefore be possible for postal and telecommunications supervision to be required to streamline the corresponding loss of revenue of approximately. Two million. kr. This is a cheap and efficient way of strengthening the invaluable work of non-profit organisations. It is also mentioned that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have a note asking the Ministry to find solutions so as to avoid the use of State-allocated funds to cover concession fees for the use of communications equipment. The reason why we have not taken part in this comment at the committee reading is, of course, that we have an alternative proposal for a solution. I take up that proposal. But if our proposal against any presumption falls, we will, of course, fully support the comment that it says there. That means that there is a majority in this Chamber for the intention in the note.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e464	The representative has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e467	In the Christian People's Party, we are very concerned to make the best possible arrangements for voluntary organizations. Voluntary organisations represent the ‘lime’ of society in many ways. They create commitment, and they act preventively in a double sense. Of course, we are familiar with the important efforts of voluntary organisations' emergency services, both by preventive action and by participation in rescue operations. It is therefore quite appropriate that the financial situation of these organisations be placed on the agenda, as set out in Document No. 8:104. It focuses on exemptions from the concession fee for the use of communications equipment necessary to carry out rescue operations for the purpose of saving life and health. Today these organisations pay a total of approx. Two million. kr in the concession fee to the Postal and Telecommunications Authority, which, on its own, is charged for the self-financing of its expenditure. It seems reasonable to remove this concession fee, but the Christian People's Party cannot participate in such a fee exemption. This implies that other users have to pay a higher fee to cross-subsidise those users. We would rather look at the annual support these organisations receive from the Ministry of Justice and, if necessary, increase it accordingly. It is better for the State to grant higher subsidies and for the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to receive its concession fee than for the other users to receive a higher concession fee. Finally, the Christian People's Party is generally committed to raising the grant from the government to non-governmental organisations, and I also remember our commitment to raising the tax exemption on voluntary gifts to the same organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e480	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2859]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e496	I am pleased to say that a collective social committee in this matter is presenting a unanimous attitude to the Stortinget. Thus, the final clear signal was to be given to start the construction of a new university clinic at Øya in Trondheim. This is a long-term long-term project, which will be of great importance both for hospital staff, for students and teachers at the higher education institutions of the city and, to a large extent, for patients, both in the Trondheim area and throughout the Central Norway region of health. The question of new university clinic in Trondheim has a long history that I will not get much into here, but pay attention to pointing out that the Stortinget in spring 2001 joined a proposal from the then government of Stoltenberg to investigate an alternative location on Dragvoll in Trondheim before any construction start on Øya. The final report of this investigation is now available, and it is in view of the fact that a joint social committee joins the Government's conclusion not to reverse the previous decision that the new university clinic in Trondheim should be located in Øya. In the view of the Committee, the final report provides a good basis for decision-making, highlighting all important and relevant issues related to the localisation issue in a good way. Once the Committee has concluded that Øya is the location of the new hospital, there are several reasons for this. I'll get into some of them. The Committee has stressed that the Øya option has come much further in the planning and design work and is significantly better quality assurance than the case of Dragvoll. It also means that there is considerable uncertainty about the cost of planning and progress in the possible development of Dragvoll. This could result in a significant delay in the start of construction – and therefore also in the completion of the project. In view of the difficult operating situation of the existing degraded premises and the precarious need for larger areas, the Committee does not consider such a postponement to be acceptable. This was also a main argument in the many hearing opinions that came into the matter. Because patients and hospital staff need a modern hospital as soon as possible, it was important for the Committee to find a solution that will allow the gradual use of parts of the en route development before the entire project is completed, and such an option is only the eye that gives. In a possible construction on Dragvoll, one would have to use the current old and worn-out premises for many, many years – until the whole new project was completed. It was also essential for the Committee to perform the important function of a university hospital for education and research. In this context, close co-location between the university hospital and the medical faculty is essential to facilitate optimal cooperation. The geographical proximity between the Faculty of Medicine, the technology environment at Glöshaugen in Trondheim and the hospital in Øya is an important reason for the good results that this cooperation can show. The Committee wishes to facilitate the continuation and further development of this by choosing the island. An objection that has been raised against the island as a location by different teams is the area issue. The island has a limited area, and in this way, Dragvoll has a advantage. However, when the Committee ends up recommending the island, it is based on the fact that, despite its limitations, the available areas will not hinder either the planned construction or any future extensions. The Committee has also stressed that placing as large a workplace as a hospital on the outskirts of the city – as Dragvoll is – would go across locally adopted urban development plans in Trondheim. With regard to costs, construction could start within the previously agreed cost framework of 4,538 billion kroner. In the past, there has been some uncertainty as to whether a patient hotel and a technical service centre should be included in phase 1 of the development. Therefore, an overall committee suggests in the setting that both the patient hotel and the technical services centre can be started and that these should be part of phase 1 of the project. The government further asks for funding for these purposes in such a way that this does not delay either the start of construction or the progress of phase 1. The Committee is strongly concerned with the place of psychiatry in the new hospital. In this context, it is a goal to build up the sharp distinction that has often been between somatics and psychiatry. The Committee therefore agrees that a psychiatrist should be part of the development project and proposes to investigate how this centre can be included in Phase 2. This is important also in the interests of integrated medical training by the NTNU, where different special areas complement each other. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that it is a united and unanimous social committee that recommends the Stortinget to make the decisions that are in the recommendation. For such a big and important thing, it is a strength. Finally, I would like to stress the strong need to establish a modern and time-consuming university clinic in Trondheim, both for the region as a whole and with the function of local hospital for the Trondheim area, and I therefore assume that the expansion that the Stortinget will decide today can start as soon as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e533	The Storting will today take a decision which means a good step forward for Health-Norway, not least for the people of More and Romesdal, South-Trundellag and North-Trundellag, but also for the country else, who will in the future benefit from a better university hospital than what we have today. Now Health Mid-Norway RHF will be given overall responsibility for the project, i.e. governance and authority for the conclusion of contracts within the framework we now determine. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Research is authorised to initiate phase 1 of the project. This phase has a cost framework of NOK 4,538 billion in 2000 dollars. In addition to this phase 1 cost framework, the construction of a patient hotel and technical service centre will be at an estimated cost of 179.1 million. kr. The Committee has been clear that these two projects are to be included in phase 1 of development, which I consider to be a good idea. This new university clinic is to replace a building mass that has grown completely since 1902 without any overall plan and development strategy for what is now the task of the university clinic. It is obvious that this building mass is not suitable for current diagnostic and treatment methods, nor is it suitable for meeting the challenges ahead. Of course, maintenance costs and renewals are kept at a minimum level for several years in anticipation of new construction. Now it comes, and it has been for the sake of both patients and staff obvious reasons to get started on construction now. The island is also in this context a very good alternative for the location of the hospital. I also believe that the good development that the existing university hospital has had is also due to the close cooperation that the hospital has had with the medical faculty and the technology environment at Glöshaugen. In this cooperation, geographical proximity has been of great importance. This is now being arranged to continue at the location of the island. Today, when the Stortinge treats the construction of a new university clinic, this is linked to the need for assessment of alternative placement in the Dragvoll area based on several factors. Now this investigation work is done. Although the location at Dragvoll would have been an adequate alternative both economically and professionally, a unanimous increase today can choose the original location in confidence that we make a right and good choice. Finally, I would like to stress the place of psychiatry in the new university clinic. Therefore, it is important that we give a clear signal today in the context of further investigation of phase 2, where a psychiatrist needs to be adapted and included. There is good reason – as the rapporteur was also concerned – to build up existing distinctions between psychiatry and somatics. I guess this will be taken care of in the further planning and design.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e559	Dear child has many names: RIT 2000, RIT «Leckert», Health Building Middle Norway. And new university clinic in Trondheim, St.prp. No 53 for 2001-2002, which we are now dealing with, is anchored in a number of previous enlargement decisions. Personally, as former county health policy-makers in More and Romesdal and in the region, I have had the opportunity to follow the project from the initiation, through the planned work and up to the start now. The Central Norway health region needs a future-oriented regional hospital that, in line with current medical and technological developments, will be able to put patients’ needs at the centre. It is therefore important that a further examination of Phase 2 to assess the existence of alternatives, possibly potential improvements, does not contribute to the further unfortunate delay of the overall project and avoid further policy towing and complications along the way. The operating situation at today's university hospital is very stressful, seen from both the patient's and the employees' side, and we know that today's St. Olav's Hospital operates with a derogation from the supervisory authorities pending new premises. Gradual migration into new areas as the centres are completed on the island will therefore remedy a difficult operating situation in today's degraded premises. This means that the decision that the university hospital should be built on the island is correct, and that the solution will provide a long-term increase in area also in the short term. One can ask questions about whether it was right to stop the project to determine an alternative location on Dragvoll. And it is still uncertain how much extra costs the investigation of Dragvoll has entailed in addition to delayed construction. What is possible to establish so far is that the deferral has shown that most of those who have spoken in the process have contributed positively to the benefit of the island, which is now being set up. Phase 1 to be completed in 2005 amounts to approx. 44 pst. of the planned total area. It includes two clinical centres: the Nevrosenter and the Women's Children's Centre, as well as the Laboratory Centre. In addition, the Committee asks the Government to return to the Storting with a cost framework for patient hotels and technical services in such a way as to avoid further delays for the start and progress of Phase 1. This is important. Body and soul are closely linked in the development and treatment of disease. Nevertheless, over the years, we have created artificial distinctions between the place of treatment and the treatment of psychiatric and somatic diseases. Tomorrow's hospital will face other and more complex challenges than today's. I'm thinking especially about seeing somatic and mental disorders together. Today we experience mixed problems in the area of drugs and psychiatry. These are problems that are often triggered or triggered by other somatic diseases. At the same time, we find that more and more elderly people are being misdiagnosed because they are being plagued by symptoms similar to Alzheimer's or other primary brain disease. It appears that the problems may often have quite different causes, such as nutritional deficiencies, infections or various types of organ failure. Ingenious psychiatric competence, easily accessible, together with specialists in different somatic specialities, especially in the investigation phase, will be better able to see the whole human being and provide the patient with a proper diagnosis and faster treatment. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has asked the Government to investigate how a psychiatrist can be included in phase 2 of the development. In this way, the Stortinget helps to shape a regional hospital for tomorrow and in line with development. It's very important to think new. It's important to see the whole human being when it's going to be treated, it's for somatic or mental distress, which often goes hand in hand. One must therefore, in future jobs, be targeted in order to better coordinate psychiatric and somatic investigations and treatment in a way that ensures that out-of-date barriers are broken. The right is satisfied with the attitude of a single and unanimous social committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e594	As announced by the rapporteur, the Committee has put forward a unanimous vote, and I would like to point out that the rapporteur has done a very good job here. The construction of a new university hospital in Trondheim has had a long and long-term birth, and I am pleased that we can finally make a final decision that the construction will now begin. The regional hospital in Trondheim has a worn-out building mass which, according to today's requirements, is not suitable for modern hospital operations. However, I do not conceal that the Progress Party has been somewhat skeptical about the hospital project on Øya and about the centre model. We have been skeptical of the land selection, because the land area around the building that is now being built is partly very limited in view of the possibilities for enlargement in the future, which must then be done by expropriation of private land and property. The progress party therefore agreed that an investigation was carried out on alternative plot selection at Dragvoll. That investigation, which was also due to time constraints, had many uncertainties in itself regarding construction start, completion and not least savings by moving the project from Øya to Dragvoll. The Progress Party therefore agrees that an eye is now selected, and notes that these are also agreed by the user organisations and most hearing bodies. Another scepticism that the Progress Party has had, and still has in part, concerns the choice of the so-called centre model, which several investigations have identified as a costly operating model. I am therefore pleased that the Dragvoll investigation also notes this, and that the Government and Health Mid-Norway will look at a correction of the centre model that leads to lower operating costs and staff savings, especially in the case of anaesthesia and intensive personnel. No one should be particularly surprised if the so-called cost framework for phase 1 of the development will exceed the estimate of DKK 4.5 billion, as this construction project requires operation, demolition and construction at the same time and over a relatively long period of time. It is therefore important, in my view, that the Department of Health Mid-Norway closely monitor the investment costs during the development of Phase 1. However, the Progress Party would point out that the investment costs of such a large and complex building are not the most significant, but that the hospital is given a design in terms of technical solutions that allow cost-effective operation. Finally, I would like to point out a unanimous remark, in which the Committee stresses that the sharp distinction between psychiatry and somatics today needs to be built up, and in this context it is proposed to investigate how a psychiatrist can be included in Phase 2 of the University Hospital project in Trondheim. I see it as still having psychiatry a little bit too much of special care, which seems stigmatizing to people with mental disorders. It would therefore be beneficial to incorporate psychiatry into the rest of the health system in line with other specialities, such as geriatry, neurology, etc. In the end, I would like to recommend to Health Mid-Norway through the Minister of Health that they try to protect the hospital patients during the construction phase. We have something similar, if not the same size, at the Westfold Central Hospital, where we have built over several years. This period of construction and construction has been a major nuisance and wear for the individual patients who have been admitted there for a long time. When you start on the eye, you have to try to do as best you can to protect patients, so that they do not cause any additional problems for individual patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e611	It is gratifying that the Stortinget can today decide to initiate the construction of a new university clinic in Trondheim. This has been a relatively lengthy matter. In advance of the decision today, two agreements exist with the South Trøndelag County Municipality as the responsible builder. So after the Health Business Act came, it's Health Mid-Norway that is now going to have the primary responsibility, and we've got an investigation of alternative location areas. Eyes were constantly inside the original plans, but then Health Minister Tore Tønne suggested that the location of Dragvoll should also be investigated. What has come out of that investigation is an investigation that has been at the hearing, in which most of the key interests have said that the island should be chosen. This applies, inter alia, to: Opinions of Health Mid-Norway, St. Olavs Hospital itself, NTNU, Trondheim Municipality, the University of Southern Trøndelag, the County Board and the South Trøndelag County. There are important and heavy hearing bodies in this context. Not least, it would be right to say that a construction process with all the things that were to be done by technical investigations and decisions would, with the extension of Dragvoll, delay this even more than we might have now seen in this final phase. The first construction step has a cost framework of just over NOK 4.5 billion measured in 2000 kroner. Then we also know that in connection with the first stage of construction, or phase 1, there is talk of patient hotels and technical services for approx. $180 million. kr. A joint committee strongly advocates that the progress and development of this should be included in phase 1, and I hope that this will happen without any delay in the project. The assessment made by Dragvoll has taken some time. It has also cost some resources. It's not calculated by the department. But according to the journal of April 15 this year, this assessment of Dragvoll cost between 50 and 100 million. kr, plus that it has led to some problems both for the professional community, for the RiT and for some of the private operators who are also well dependent on setting up such a large development project as the new university clinic in Trondheim is. I would also like to say, like the previous speakers, that, in total, the Øya project is the best. It's an overall committee that recommends it today. The eye has some pretense, including that one can use the building mass that is on site at all times, one may be put into service parts of the extension that are part of phase 1 before completion of the entire project. It's important not least for patients. The fact that there are also problems for a person to do construction work in an area where a person must have a full hospital operation at the same time is clear, and it must be a clear premise that a person is trying to do this as carefully as possible, so that full hospital activity can be carried out at the same time in the old premises. It is also important that one cooperates with the research and education communities in Trondheim. The geographical proximity between the Øya, the medical faculty and the technology environment at the Glashaugen should suggest that a sheep do this. Next to that, there is reason to remember that the University of Southern Trøndelag has asked for a slightly larger area for its presence in this construction project on Øya. This relates to an area in addition to what they've got now, for example. having regard to the inclusion of the study for radiographs and they need advanced technical equipment which they must then be able to use in an interaction with the St. Olavs Hospital. At the same time, it is also the case that the College of Southern Trøndelag will take over part of the company's internal special training at the hospital. This means that you have to get the area needs that the University of Southern Trøndelag points to, into the development now. I would like to say, as previous speakers have pointed out, that it is important for a person to have a good and close relationship between somatic and psychiatry in such a large development project. It is important for patients, especially in relation to, among others, geriatry, where one likes to have a close relationship between somatic disorders and mental disorders. It is also important in the context of drug treatment, among other things, and it is important in relation to the integrated medical training conducted by NTNU, which has both these special areas in itself, and it is important that a large, heavy institution is able to coordinate this, where people can receive both training and practice at the same time. With these words, I would recommend that this expansion take place, and that one takes into account the three Roman numerals proposed by a unanimous committee today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e628	With Friday's princess wedding in fresh memory, it is a pleasure to note that another big event seems to be taking place in Middle Norway: the start of the development of new university clinics in Trondheim. Our political system requires opinions to be broken. It is also positive to note that, after careful consideration of complex issues, broad cross-political consensus can be reached, as expressed in the unanimous position of the Social Committee that phase 1 of new university clinic in Trondheim is now to be realized. The investigation of possible alternative location was completed as foreseen before the end of the year. In the subsequent consultation round, it was widely acknowledged that the development should be initiated in the existing Sickness Area of the island of Øya. This broad consensus has been a central moment, both by the Government and I understand the committee's consideration of the matter, and provides a very good starting point for the realization phase into which the project is now entering. Questions have been raised as to whether it has been appropriate to take this extra round with consideration of alternative localisation and projects. Failure to start development has caused some concern and uncertainty, and some deferral costs. I'm assuming that the postponement will be able to benefit the project. The results of both the investigation and the consultation have been useful in this last round of decisions. We now have a better basis for making a final decision on location and realization, and have seen to a greater extent than in the past a large degree of consensus among the environments involved. The University Hospital is an integrated hospital and university project. Wide agreement among user institutions on the launch of phase 1 on the island promises to cooperate actively and well between the user environments on the hospital side and on the university and higher education sides. In addition, the Dragvoll investigation has produced valuable findings, which, in combination with the idea base on which the project has been based, can be used to obtain the best possible and operationally good project on the island. A key premise in the proposal submitted to the Stortinget is that some new premises are also set for the Øya project. I have taken note of the Committee's comments on the realisation of patient hotels and technical centres of supply, and I welcome the fact that these objectives can also be set in motion so that the progress for phase 1 is not delayed further. I have also noted the Committee's comments on possible operational savings as a result of a reassessment of the centre model, and I agree, of course, that this area requires special attention. I would remind you that a central prerequisite in the proposed scheme is that a modified model should be used as the basis for the project with a focus on finding better professional and operational solutions than originally planned. This work has already started in the project organisation and will be part of the mission that will be communicated to Health Mid-Norway after the wholesale treatment here today. The Committee is strongly concerned with the place of psychiatry in the construction of new university clinics in Trondheim. In this context, the Committee stresses that a sharp distinction must be made between psychiatry and somatics. It is also important, in view of the integrated medical training provided by NTNU, where different special areas complement each other, to find solutions that take this into account in the Committee's view. The Ministry will now initiate work to review Phase 2 plans. This work will also focus on assessing how a psychiatrist can be integrated into the development project. The government will come back to this issue once the framework and guidelines for this part of the development project have been clarified. Planning and developing new university clinics in Trondheim is a major and important but also a difficult matter. The project has its special and long-standing history, including: related to cost increases, location selection and deployment model. The additional round that has now been completed will make the project appear to be more robust and with a greater degree of learning. I mention that at the Storting's review of the New Rikshospital project, it was to allow learning along the way in the process a very central point. Now progress is central to expansion. A large and thorough processing is at the root of the proposition promoted by the Storting. With the decision Stortinget is invited to take today, we can finally get started on the very realization of this big and important development project. A new and modern hospital is needed in Trondheim. The foundation has now been created.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e656	It is a long-term decision that is taken in the Stortinget today, when the Stortinget gives its final support to the construction of a new university clinic at Øya in Trondheim. The current buildings are worn-out, heavy-duty and under all criticisms of the working environment. Such hospitals are not worth a rich country. Such hospitals are not suitable for patient treatment. Such hospitals are not suitable for creating good conditions for the recruitment of key personnel. Such hospitals are not suitable for good professional development. It is therefore a boost for patients in central Norway and for the medical environment in the region when the spa can finally be put into the soil, so that a modern and timely university clinic can be realized. I would like to pay tribute to the local politicians and, in particular, to our leading state politicians who have fought a long and viable fight for a good, specialised health service for people in the region and for a well-functioning local hospital for patients in Trondheim. I would also like to commend the Health Minister, Høybräten, who has confirmed Tore Tønne's decision that location should take place on Øya following an investigation into a Dragvoll option. It is good that the government did not allow itself to be tempted to a new desert hike by betting on an uncertain alternative, to great harm to the medical environment and to the patients in Central Norway. It is very good that almost unanimous opinions from the responsible authorities locally, employee organisations and patient organisations on a location in the island are now being taken into account. In my view, it would be a direct alarm if the central authorities were to overrun the municipality of Trondheim as a regulatory authority in such a large location case. It would also be directly alarming if you were to ignore all the heavy hearing opinions locally. The Social Committee has also done a good job with the matter. It is very good that it is established that in connection with phase 1 a patient hotel and a technical service centre will be realised. This has been produced according to strong wishes from local teams. I would also like to stress, like the Committee, that a psychiatrist must be included in phase 2 of the project. It is also positive that the University of Southern Trøndelag will be assessed its needs for land, not least for the sake of the co-use of expensive equipment and professional exchange. Localisation to Øya also ensures a continued high level of professional exchange between the medical and technological environments in Trondheim, as the Stortinget has also underlined in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e669	With reference to the introduction of the Council of State, let me just say that today's decision is probably greater for Trondheim than the princess wedding, although it was a pleasant event at which it was nice to be present, even for a Republican. This is a big day for Trondheim, it's a big day for Middle Norway, and it's a big day for South Trondheim, but not least it's a big and important decision to make for patients, for employees and for health policy in the three Middle Norwegian states. There has been a long and winding road until this decision. In many ways it's almost paradoxical when you think about the high waves that sometimes have been, that there's now a unified committee that's presenting its attitude, and that today's debate in many ways is without nerves, and it's a great strength for a matter as important as this. It shows that the long and twisted processes have, after all, been important, and it also shows that the last postponement that came just before the summer last year was necessary, simply because the process of alternative investigation of Dragvoll has got rid of any doubt that the island is the best place to live. If you hadn't done this extra round, probably a lot of people would have had some doubts that it might have been better on Dragvoll anyway. This investigation does not clearly establish that Dragvoll had been a poorer choice, but the consultation round and the process around it have shown that the eye has so many obvious advantages that the committee has unanimously concluded this. That is a resolution I welcome. What has also been clear for a long time is that today's hospital has been very unsuitable for modern patient treatment, that it has been mature for renovation, and that the building mass is, in part, very worn out. Today's decision means that we'll be able to realize a modern hospital in Middle Norway, like the people where hurt needs. The uncertainty of this curved process has partly been linked to many different conditions. It has been linked to the model to be chosen, to what is called the centre model, to the location I have been assigned to, and it has also gone on costs related to this project. I feel quite certain, even though costs will of course always be uncertain, that it has now been so well grasped that the figures put before the Storting are, to a large extent, what will become the reality. This project is, of course, with all due respect explained upwards and downwards. You also have a very competent staff in Trondheim, which has done what it can to get the right numbers. What's important about the large expansion projects that we're facing here is that we don't experience the same thing we've experienced in other major expansion projects, namely that we're constantly getting new exceedances that discredit the entire project. Then it is more neat and fairer that all numbers – if they are never so large – come to the front of the table, so that both decision-making authorities and not least everyone else know what to do with. My strong wish and hope is that in this process we have achieved this, and that the figures presented today are the figures – adjusted for the future course – that are correct. In this process, the eye appears to be the natural site selection based on many different reasons, even though the eye also has obvious disadvantages. I expect the Council of State in the further process together with Health Mid-Norway will ensure that the disadvantages that will obviously be present, both for employees and patients, when building a new university clinic while operating a hospital, are minimised. I am aware that this has been an important topic also during the design of the hospital. I expect to focus heavily on this also in the future, so that the disadvantages are minimised, and that this will ensure that the hospital can be operated normally and without major inconveniences also for the patients who have to be there. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Committee on Social Affairs for a very thorough discussion. I may not want to use the word for observation, but it is very gratifying that, after such a lengthy and winding process as this has been, we are united in a decision that is so important. It is also very gratifying that we have established here that it is the centre model to be taken into account. It is gratifying that phase 1 has included both a patient’s hotel and a technical service. It is also very gratifying to raise the psychiatry in Phase 2 and ask the Council of State – if not directly, so at least indirectly – to include the psychiatry in Phase 2. In this way, you avoid the verbal treatment that often becomes the part of psychiatry. The investigation requested in the III proposal has already, in reality, come to its conclusion through this debate. The Social Committee believes that this should be included in Phase 2. I am very pleased with that. Let me also say that I think it is positive that the committee has taken into account the need for a larger area at the University of Southern Trøndelag if it is co-located on the island. This university also needs to be used for new premises. It has been a matter that the Stortinget has had to deal with on various occasions. When this can now be co-located on the island, and in addition they can be given greater space, it will be of great benefit to patients in central Norway and to health education in central Norway. So this is a big day for Middle Norway. The decision we are making today will provide the basis for a long and circumstantial process. I do not take a lot of mistakes if I say that this case will also come back to Stortinget in different phases over many years. But the most important decision is being taken today. Now the basis is for a new, modern university clinic in Trondheim and Middle Norway. This will be of great benefit to the inhabitants of this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e697	The Christian People's Party will congratulate the regional health company Mid-Norway – and not least Trondheim municipality – on the start of a new university clinic. The process of getting this back to has been a long time. I do not conceal that the Christian People's Party has been skeptical of the economic forecasts that were previously presented. We feared a building project with great financial excesses. That phase 1 of the Øya project is now quality assured with a probability level of 85 pst, we find reassuring. When the investigation of an extension on Dragvoll was presented, it seemed that one could save close to NOK 1 billion. What did not immediately emerge was that a shift of university activities from Dragvoll to Øya would provide an investment need of nearly DKK 1 billion in new buildings. So you could say that winning goes into spinning. In addition to not saving money on the Dragvoll option, there were several uncertainties, such as: date of start of construction and completion. Like the other parties that support the development of new university clinic in Øya, it has meant a lot to the Christian People's Party that all user organisations have wanted this option. It is important for users to be able to use parts of the expansion phase 1 before the whole project is completed. I think, among other things: at the Women’s Children’s Centre. Such an opportunity is only an extension on the island that gives. Christian People's Party supports the inclusion of a patient hotel and technical service centre in Phase 1. A patient hotel can help a patient to avoid having patients in the corridors. The Dragvoll investigation has not been discarded. New ideas have emerged, and one will now have improvements to the model of the centre underlying the expansion of the island. Reduced operating costs as a result should be submitted to the Stortinget. It is important to note that a unanimous social committee reminds us that psychiatry must not be depriorized and must be included in phase 2. Close co-location and broad cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine, the University of Southern Trøndelag and the technology environment at Glöshaugen will make it exciting and attractive to train health professionals in a new university clinic in Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e722	The plans for the 100th anniversary of St. Olav's Hospital are being presented today. It is great that the anniversary can take place in a secure assurance that the construction can now start at Øya. It would have been better if the process had come a year and a half longer, for so long has the delay been. The last rematch I thought was useless and unnecessary. I believe that this is the worst example I know of, that the central government has come forward in relation to local decisions, local interests and decisions taken by the Stortinget. When the conclusions become as they are, we avoid putting our democratic decision-making processes in such an unlucky light that we could have experienced if the choice of places had been transformed by the spontaneous investigation proposed by the Council of Tøn and to which the majority of the population joined. The extra round shows that there is a very broad consensus on the location. It shows that the plans that existed were very sober. The many wishes for increased area and better standard that have now emerged in this round, at least I interpret as an expression that the South-Tronde Team County has run a tight planning process, where the thought of patients and the operating costs has been the leading. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that has opened up the necessary improvements to be made along the way. And I think it has to be like this in a huge project where planning and expansion have to go over many years. At the same time, I would like to express a hope that this openness in assessing improvements is not perceived as an invitation to new rematches. I believe that the extra round that has now been completed has not at least made the need for firmness in management and implementation visible. A postponement of at least one and a half years is very expensive, not just for the builder. There are very many employees and patients affected. In business too, the effects have been great — and they will be great. Uncertainty has been great, and valuable resources have been used to argue for the main vision that was felt to be questioned by the top governments of the country. So this rematch has created a broader consensus on location and progress than what it's made through the media in the past. It is something that the Council of State was also involved in its contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e737	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[Fotation, see page 2859]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e750	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e757	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide the State budget for 2003 to ensure that the reimbursement of the car diesel tax for express buses is established in order to meet the real needs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e957	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-28.ana.ud906e986	During the debate, Mr Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose as soon as possible that non-profit institutions which rely on interconnector equipment in order to carry out rescue operations for the purpose of saving life and health are exempted from paying annual concession fees under the Telecom Act. The loss of revenue is covered by the equivalent efficiency of postal and telecommunications supervision.’;» There will be no alternative between this proposal and the vote.
