ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e57	Now that there are so many people present, the president will draw attention to the fact that next week will be a heavy week. There are many issues to be addressed, and there are going to be long evening meetings. The President invites the Committees to look again at the arrangements made for the speaking time in the various cases. It is important that we also receive serious and serious treatment from the cases listed at the end of the discussion on the various maps. The President expects us to get through this in good cooperation between the Presidency and the Committees, but, as I said, if the Committees can look at their proposed debates one more time, we may manage to be finished around midnight instead of later. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e73	There is an overall committee that expresses concern that some students in this country have a disproportionately long travel time to school. On the other hand, a large majority of the Committee is very uncertain whether the introduction of maximum travel time for students is the right way to solve this problem. The proposal by the Socialist Left to introduce a maximum time limit does not get a majority in the Committee, as the majority considers such a solution to be counterproductive. The majority of the Committee is concerned that a concreteisation of travel time can actually be interpreted as a recognition that schools located directly within the travel time zone can be closed down. The majority are also sceptical as to how such arrangements and proposals can be implemented in practice, without disproportionately imposing additional work on municipalities. It is the municipalities that are school owners and that are responsible for the school structure. The majority are concerned that municipalities should discharge their responsibilities with minimum detailed management from Stortinget. There is a fundamental belief that local politicians around the country are doing their jobs in a good way and using local discretion. If you had put in place a maximum travel time for students, as the Socialist Left Party sketches, you would actually risk going back to boarding school in my home municipality for some primary school students. Hammerfest municipality dropped its last boarding school a few years ago, with the result that some students actually got a longer travel time than what is in the proposal. It was in any case a better option for both rivers and parents, who are now not sending their kids away all week. I don't think the members of the committee want to make rules that can have adverse effects. The majority of the Committee would like to await the measures to be taken to improve the situation of cross-border schools. On behalf of the Ministry of Education and Research, Nordic Research is working on different assessments of the relationship between school kissing and cross-country schools. The majority await the conclusions of this study before recommending any measures. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre also refer to the State Council Victor Norman's statement on the modernisation, efficiency and simplification of the public sector, where he, among other things, is in favour of a total cost calculation for school leaving. These members believe this will change the situation of many primary schools, as well as that it will improve the travel situation for many students. A system in which responsibility for school kissing is transferred from the county to the municipality will undoubtedly give other conclusions in the debate on school dropouts. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party wish to change the law and funding relating to primary and secondary schools. They want to merge the legal provisions into one law and introduce a single price finance. The Socialist Left Party wants to introduce a maximum travel time for primary school students of 30 minutes for early childhood and 45 minutes for early childhood respectively. The entire committee is concerned with the issues of cross-school and school kissing. A majority of the members of the Committee are sceptical about introducing mechanisms that restrict the freedom of choice of municipalities, but will stimulate more strongly the desired development and performance. The size gets a lot of criticism from the municipalities that there is too much detail control. It takes the committee seriously, and is sceptical about entering into a system of maximum travel time for primary school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e99	From the Labour Party it is important to clarify that, despite the fact that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the government parties have reached the same conclusion in the case, there are different reasons that have led us there. The Central Party and our friends in the Government have justified the desire for a maximum travel time between home and school with the following: A total cost calculation is to be made, i.e. an efficiency accounting that is essential for the decision on maximum travel time.It is announced that a change in the funding system for school kisses – the municipality and not the county municipality will pay school kisses for the future for primary school students.Nordlandsforskning is currently working on a project on the travel time problem for primary school students. These conclusions are not yet available. On the part of the Workers' Party, we will not agree that efficiency gains and funding systems are essential for the duration of the school bus stay. For us, the one and only concern for the children is to be crucial. Therefore, it is right to await the results of Nordic research before we – Stortinget – set maximum travel time between home and school. We in the Workers' Party want these results from Nordic research alone to lead us to a reasonable maximum limit, not Victor Norman's efficiency dream or the question of who is going to pay the school bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e120	The decline in school provision in municipalities has been going on for a long time. Extensive building maturity carries a maintenance budget offer that does not meet the need. Lack of — and inadequacy — equipment characterises the everyday life of many students at school. Too few teaching positions and too few hours are increasingly affecting a growing number of students. These developments show operating budgets that do not meet the needs either. In the wake of tight budgets, school closures also appear – 600 schools have closed since 1986. Many students have been given a long schooling route through school. Many students spend too long to and from school, and associated with the stress of travelling time, many students also experience bullying problems. Unfortunately, the financial problems in many municipalities are obviously large and increasing. There is therefore a risk that school provision will be put under further pressure and that more school dropouts may affect many students — with increased travel time as a result. Despite good intentions, the proposal by the proposers may in fact lead to further schooling. It illustrates that as an instrument of school closure, the maximum travel time limit is not very appropriate, in our opinion. The Progress Party stresses that within the current legal and regulatory framework, it is important that the total public costs associated with changes in the school structure are made visible. This means that we have to put an end to the student’s blackmail game, where the school owner can count on a cost reduction in his school budget, while at the same time increasing the cost of other units in the same municipality or other municipality. The easiest and safest way to do this is to let government money – money that is now channelled through municipal budgets – go directly to the students. In the health sector, this input-based funding is now increasing from 55 pst. to 60 pst. of hospital income. Such a system will be used by the Progress Party in the education sector. When the student becomes a customer, equipped with government money, it becomes the demand in the student base that determines location and operation, not local policy priorities where school purposes may experience a decline in priority. However, the Progress Party stresses that, in addition to changing funding, users – students and parents – also need new legislation. We need a school law for all students, as we know it in Sweden. We need a school law that opens up competition and thus diversity in Norwegian school. A far greater degree of free choice will also give full force to the modified funding model. It will then be economically possible for non-municipalities to start and run school. The solution of the Progress Party opens up diversity through opportunities. Open diversity in student competition will not only lead to shorter travel time but also to better quality. I have a good example from my own home country, the municipality of Austevoll – a small municipality, located on several large and countless small islands off the coast south of Bergen. When a bridge came to the island of Stolmen a few years ago, the majority of the local government quit school at Stolmen. Parents will continue school and have applied for the establishment of private schools, a coastal and nature school. They now have several obstacles to pass. First, establishment under the private school law must be approved, possibly as an experiment. Then they have to apply for money – money that the same students will get if they travel to the municipality school, which is located a good way away. If they do, there will be school at Stolmen. There, as elsewhere, the primary school is 'lime' in the community. In the view of the Progress Party, it shall not be such that the establishment of schools as an alternative to the long-distance route depends on the mercy of politicians and bureaucrats. We should change the system. Users should control more than local politicians. I therefore take up the proposal of the Progress Party to file a case on a new law and a new financing plan for primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e156	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e159	The Socialist Left has put forward proposals for maximum travel time: 30 minutes for childhood and 45 minutes for childhood. The background to this proposal is that there are no restrictions today on how far children have to go to school every day. Since 1986, more than 600 schools have been closed, with the result that children in Norway have been charged with longer and longer work trips to and from school. Longer work travel wears out children both mentally and physically, which affects both well-being, learning capacity, leisure activities and association with family and friends. Children in Norway have had longer travel times in recent years. Estimates show that about 40,000 students sit on the school bus more than an hour each day. You know a lot of different examples. An example in the media a little while ago was Osen Municipality, where the result of the municipal government's proposal to close a school would lead to students getting 2 1⁄2 hours of travel each day. This is about the right to school in the community. It's about Stortinget's intention of near-environment schools and the importance of the school for the community and the community. The school will be used for much more than just school; it will also be a cultural arena after school. This is about the right of children and young people to good and safe growth. SV submits this proposal because we are concerned that the children will have a good upbringing and a good school, and that they will be able to acquire the knowledge they need within the school system without being worn out due to long travel distances. There are also no official statistics on travel distances for children in Norway. Against this background, we are promoting proposals where we ‘began the Government to set up a system for reporting student travel time to and from school, in order to follow the development of school structure and route’. As a general rule, it must be organised in such a way that: ‘travel time from home to school does not exceed 30 minutes for childhood and 45 minutes for childhood’. This is an important question for us, and it's not just us who have been concerned about this. The Children’s Ombudsman has inter alia: addressed this question. We received input — when this proposal was discussed in the Committee — from a number of different organisations supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e181	The representative Lena Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e184	The rapporteur has given a good presentation of the matter as it exists, so I just want to make a few brief comments. Because of the closure of several schools in the last decades, even more students are dependent on school kissing than before – that’s right. When health damage can be detected due to such journeys, of course, are something that should be done. The Christian People's Party will therefore follow closely when Nordic research presents its findings on the relationship between school and branch schools. We are also aware that the Landslag for Udelt and Fådelt School, LUFS, are actively working for the neighbourhood school and will have a protection against long-term work trips. They refer to studies that show that more than 40,000 children have showered for more than 30 minutes each way, as we also see from the SV’s proposal. In addition, it is noted that several thousand students are exposed to bullying in this context. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of State when, in a letter to the Committee, she stresses the importance of municipalities following rules of good administration in dealing with school leaving issues, and that high emphasis is also placed on students' travel time. It is the municipalities that are school owners, and for the Christian People's Party we probably have more respect or confidence in the local politicians than what we heard here from the Progress Party. I do not want to agree that political work is to be done as a lawyer's food. We also have the words of the Sem Declaration that the Cooperation Government will make proposals to transfer responsibility for school kissing for primary school students to the municipalities. This will result in cloud expenditure becoming part of the total cost that is emphasised when it comes to changes in school structure. This will also be a step on the way to improving the situation for the future. The Christian People's Party therefore does not vote in this round for proposals on the maximum travel time limit, but awaits other proposals to be able to do something about the situation of the local community school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e199	Any suggestions that can improve the school life of children take the Senterpartiet seriously. Many children have too long school trips. It's because schools are laid down. However, when the Central Party cannot support this proposal, it is simply because we believe that it can be used against, that politicians around say that this school is closer – and then they think they can save money on it. We are afraid of that development. Furthermore, we believe that local politicians should be allowed to determine the school structure. The representative Nielsen mentions this with total cost analyses. In fact, some total cost analyses have been carried out on school leaving. In fact, it turns out that there is nothing to save — in very many cases — from going to school. It is important for the Centre Party to stress that there are no economic reasons to decide whether or not a school should be closed down. – I would like to underline that. When school closures occur, it is because the situation around the municipalities over many years has been so difficult because the municipal budgets are too tight. I see that the same thing is about to happen now, when very many municipalities actually have to reduce their school budgets for their current years. This is a development we don't want, and the Central Party is going in to strengthen the municipal economy, so that the municipal politicians don't have to have the choice between setting up schools or shutting down homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e213	I don't think there's a black-and-white limit for what's child's well-being. I think you should take all the parties seriously when they say that they are actually concerned about the best of children in this case. Let me give you two examples. I went to a small primary school together with proposer Inge Ryan. The students who drove the longest by bus to get there drove past three primary schools — just to maintain a primary school. Some of the politics were that they wanted to have the small round schools, and that they were maintained by the fact that some children actually had a long bus trip. Secondly, in the Strompdalen, which is a small branch in the municipality of Namskogan, where proposer Ryan has been rapporteur, there are some students living there. They drive a private car quite far to get to their school. The option for the children here would be the right to home education. It is the only solution when there is one family with schoolchildren far away. One perspective is not included here, namely the children's right to have a certain environment to grow up in, actually have some friends to grow up with, with which you have shared experiences and shared childhood. This is a perspective that cannot be measured in minutes and seconds in a car. So the world is not black and white, and a good growth cannot be measured in minutes. So a little perspective for bullying on the school road. I think a lot of kids who aren't on the bus are also being bullied on the school road. We rarely measure that, because on the school road they are not monitored by adults. For my part, I have been sitting for 30 minutes on a bus on my way to high school, with a bus driver named Per, and that was the only son where no one was bullied. He had complete coastline and complete control over his bus – here the children would be fine. So it's not like all of this is black-and-white. It's not like there's one rule that applies in all contexts. Unlike the Progress Party, I have great faith in the local People's Government, that local politicians are actually able to find good solutions in collaboration with their parents. I also believe that we need to look at the legislation around our schools in order to let go and give local politicians more power to also look at different solutions to maintain the schools that we want to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e230	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3124]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e246	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the Right should have a speaking time of 10 minutes, and the other parties 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government, and that those who ask for the floor in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e253	St.meld. No 18 deals with two themes. One theme is the study structure of artistic education, including music. The second theme is the organisation of the Academy of Arts in Oslo. In addition, the Committee has raised a theme of visual art training in Tromsø. A joint committee discusses the importance of culture for the quality of life of individuals and stresses that investment in art and culture is an investment in an innovative society. It is an objective, says the majority of the Committee, all except the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, to give everyone the opportunity to participate in cultural activities and to experience high-quality art and culture. The majority underline the importance of the cultural school and music and cultural schools in the growth of children. The majority further ask the Government through the local economy and the special grant scheme to enable municipalities to provide all children who want it with an offer within the music and cultural school. The majority support the Ministry’s proposal for a pilot scheme with cooperation between Norway’s music colleges, music schools and secondary schools in order to better support young talents. So at the art education in the university and higher education system. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal that the duration of studies in the field of music and arts in basic education should normally be three years and two years to a higher degree. Furthermore, the Committee notes that the basic training for performing and creative music training shall be four years in the case of institutions which see this as necessary today in order to allow the music students adequate immersion and perfection. This basic training shall provide the bachelor degree, and two years of completion shall provide the master degree. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that a joint committee gathered on this point of view, when the starting point from the department was a streamlined three plus two-model. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party and the representative Simonsen, maintains at the same time that performing visual arts should have the same course of study, four plus two. In the case of opera training, the same majority of the Ministry supports the proposal that the last two years be higher education and that cooperation be established between opera training and the institutions providing relevant basic training, so that the first year of opera training is integrated into a Bachelor's degree. So a little bit about practical education. The same majority see that practical education and training are offered only in the disciplines of dance and choreography. In view of the need for art-skilled teaching staff in primary and secondary schools, this majority of the government asked for the possibility to establish one-year practical and pedagogical studies at the art colleges in cooperation with the universities of Bergen and Oslo, which have a high level of pedagogical competence. Then to the Academy of Art in Oslo. The same majority support the Ministry's recommendation on the continuation of the School of Art in Oslo and assume that the co-location of the departments in the Seilduk factory can take place within an agreed time and in accordance with the actual needs of the university. The same majority consider that there is no basis for making changes to the composition of the Board of Directors of the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo and assumes that the same rules of composition of the Board of Directors apply to the School of Fine Arts in Oslo as to other educational institutions. So for visual art education in Tromsø. The majority expressed in budget input. No 12 for 1997-98 ‘The Nordic region, with its particular cultural background, will be able to provide nationally valuable incentives for art training’. The majority today point out that it is important for the region’s understanding of identity and knowledge-building that there is an offer in visual arts and crafts at higher education level in the region. The majority ask the government to continue working on the issue of visual art education in Tromsø, with a view to presenting a case to the Stortinget. The county has worked a lot on the matter, and as the rapporteur-in-Office, I expect the government to present a case on visual art education in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e286	The case rapporteur gave a good account of the setting, to which I can subscribe in general. But I also want to make some points of view and main points from the Labour Party when we first treat art education as a matter of our own here in Stortinget. Firstly, we need to look at this matter in the context of the objective of the quality reform for higher education, where we, among other things, have. as a follow-up last week adopted new law for universities and colleges. But at the same time, today's case also deals with emphasising art and culture throughout our school system. There is consensus on the importance of art and culture, both for the individual and for the community. The Workers' Party believes it is important to give pre-schoolers and primary and secondary school students opportunities for experiences and participation in art and culture. Here I would like to highlight the cultural school bag of children in primary school, where the change of key earmarks greater resources for the implementation of this. Furthermore, I would like to underline the importance of the music and cultural schools. But there are huge differences, and there is a lot left in terms of both capacity development and resources, so that all children who want it can get an offer in the music and cultural schools. With the structure of the majority of the population here – as suggested in the agreement on the position of the local economy – it does not immediately appear that there is room for improvement in the situation of the music and cultural schools. The Workers' Party supports the proposal that the study period for basic education in the field of music and arts should normally be three years and two years to a higher degree. On the basis of the decision taken last year to deal with the quality reform in which it was to be assumed that art education, including the music subjects, should not be required to break up today's structure, the Workers' Party also believes that the basic training for performing music and visual arts could be four years at institutions that do so today. Additional additions shall also be of two years' duration. In order to strengthen and further develop the art studies, the Workers' Party believes that additional studies should be developed for basic education in all arts. We see that art education, with small professional environments, may need to go together to develop master's degree studies. In order to meet the need for art education staff in primary and secondary schools, we ask the Government to explore further the possibility of extending today's offer by establishing one-year practical and pedagogical studies at colleges. The Labour Party agrees that the School of Art in Oslo is continuing and that the agreed co-location can take place. Co-location of the School of Fine Arts in Bergen could also contribute to better resource use and strengthen professional and multidisciplinary development. Finally, the Labour Party is pleased that an overall committee follows up previous opinions by asking the Government to continue working on the issue of an offer of visual art education in Tromsø, with a view to presenting this to the Stortinget as its own case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e305	St.meld. No 18 is one of many things that has come to Stortinget in spring as a follow-up to the quality reform in higher education. I will first be allowed to praise the Council of State for its progress in this versatile field. Progress and productivity have been high, as has the quality of notifications. It can also be seen in this message - No. 18, About higher art education. The Committee shall agree to the content of the notification of aggregates on the nearest unanimous basis. I should also like to commend the rapporteur for his good and thorough consideration in the committee. That's the basis for thanking you for that. The wide range of consultation opinions has been reflected in the joys of the notification and in the broad consensus on the conclusions. There have been some divergent views in one area. It's about the music education. The involvement of the Committee has been so far from unique. From among others: The universities of Agder and Stavanger have also expressed strong views about 3+2 courses in the field of music education, while the Musikkhögskole has strongly wanted to be able to continue its current 4+2 course of study. In my view and in the view of the Right, the Committee has come up with a good solution in that the basic training for performing and creating music could be four years at the institutions that see this as necessary. With this a good flexibility is achieved, while normal study time is set to be 3+2 also within music. The school may continue its four-year basic education, which the school has placed great emphasis on is necessary in order to maintain the high quality of the school. In a field where quality and quality are the main objectives, it would seem strange if arrangements were adopted which students and institutions clearly believe would impair quality. With this in mind – no reduced quality – the Right joins in both the possibility of a 4+2 race for performing and creative music education and a similar course of study for performing visual arts. From the Right, we are pleased that the discussion about the future organisation of the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo can now be seen as finished. We are very pleased with the decision of the Board of Directors of the Academy of Fine Arts of 16 May this year, where the Board takes note of the Ministry's response to the request for sharing. On the right, the Ministry has agreed and agreed with the conclusion that both the Oslo School of Art will be continued as a single college and that the co-location will take place at the Seilduksfabriken. The Committee has visited the School of Fine Arts and some of its departments, spreading across the city in some awkward and narrow premises, which have gone out to date to be very good teaching facilities. There is therefore reason to stress to the majority that the agreed co-location can take place within the agreed time and in accordance with real needs. Based on what I've seen, I think this should happen as soon as possible. The majority have therefore asked the Ministry to come back with budget proposals when the level of construction stage II is clear. It has, moreover, been notified in the notice itself by the department. Finally, I would like to stress that, with the exception of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, the Committee is united on the note in point 2.5 on the training of art in Tromsø. As the rapporteur said, this has not been mentioned in the message, so it is important to include this in the setting. The majority of these requests, on the basis of the reasons given in the majority opinion, are for the Government to continue its work on the issue and for the purpose of presenting a case to the Grand Duchy. Finally, let me express great satisfaction with the broad consensus there is on the notification of art education. That's a good promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e324	I am an alternate and have only had the big message and the documents reviewed by the Committee as a basis. I think there has been a useful basis for deciding on what has been presented here. It is well presented by the rapporteur-general, and I just want to join those who have said that it seems that the Committee agrees on all the points. But I want to point out something. It is rare for me as a politician to see a position which in such clear order states that something is not quite like it should be at a unit, namely the Academy of Art in Oslo. I understood at the last speech here that there was something about correcting – perhaps new premises, and thus better relationships. The Progress Party will support the Government, which strongly suggests in its announcement that the Board may need a new structure if this does not correct, so that we get the same good conditions at the Academy of Art in Oslo as it is signaled that we have in Bergen. I feel that there are small shades of progress the party has had to highlight in connection with the message. It might be about the view of culture, who should really be the main actor here, how we should facilitate relationships – not force as much as possible into a system that we think should be on a voluntary basis. The notification takes into account that, in the case of education up to 19 years of age, municipalities and counties now have a great responsibility for facilitating the situation. This costs money, and as a municipal politician, I know that here is the Storting in one world and the local politicians in another. There are a lot of big words being used, and I feel that the Progress Party is really putting a finger on something when we have some doubts about municipalities and county councils are able to follow up the ambitious programme for music and culture that one really sees fit to be in the school sector. We agree that this is an essential topic, and we have also said that in our remarks. But we also see that there is a big difference in the extent to which this is available in the whole country, and we have taken note of that. That's why we haven't said it in general, as I feel the rest of the committee has done. There may be a bit of blue in the eyes of those who think that everyone should have the same rights and the same opportunities — those who live in the districts, and those who live in the agglomerations and the centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e333	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a very good account of what the majority of the committee has come up with. I am behind all that the rapporteur has said. I want to take this opportunity to focus on some specific areas. This Communication addresses culture from pre-school to higher art education. The wide diversity of primary and pre-primary schools is very important in order to achieve a good higher level of art education. I want to focus on what the majority have said about the cultural school system, the importance of getting culture into school, making culture general to all children in Norway, that children can be involved both as contributors and participate in exploring culture and expanding within culture. The Stortinget has decreed that all municipalities either alone or in cooperation with other municipalities should have a cultural school. The goal of the size is to give 30 pst. Of the students such offers, today there are about 12.5 pst. There is a need for a boost in the next state budget as regards the allocation of cultural schools and activities for children and young people. The message also points to the School of Art in Oslo and the co-location, a very important point. As one representative said earlier, we were at a meeting and looked at the conditions at the Academy of Art in Oslo. Co-location in trades and new buildings is very important. At the same time, the Committee has also pointed to the Bergen School of Art and the co-location process that needs to be continued. At the same time, the Committee has also been concerned with one more point, which concerns higher art education in Tromsø, which has previously been in the Committee. In the budgetary position for 1997-98, reference was made to the need and there is a need to increase the training of art in North Norway. This is a part of the country that hurts needs a higher education within the arts. What's happening in North Norway now, to a large extent, is a shift of artists from the north to the south, because you don't have a learning capacity and a learning opportunity in North Norway. A minority have also focused on the importance of ‘saturday schools’ in music and cultural schools. I have also heard that there is a pilot project in higher art education now, where the cultural school goes in, and where students in higher arts are used in the cultural school. This project has been very successful, and I ask the State Council to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e352	As the rapporteur said, there is an overall committee that agrees that investment in art and culture is an investment in an innovative society. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important to say that art and culture have a clear self-esteem. Our cultural experiences are essential for the development of the individual's personality and quality of life. Cultural unfolding helps to create security in association with others. The co-operation government wants a stronger focus on the arts and culture of public spaces, schools and workplaces. It is important that the interest and commitment to art and culture are stimulated locally and emerging from below. Knowledge of culture is an introduction to the languages of different groups and generations, which are expressed in many ways, and therefore helps us to communicate more easily across social, cultural or geographical dividing lines. Through the quality reform, the Government wants to facilitate the strengthening and further development of the professional environments in the arts. The period of study of music and arts in basic education shall normally be three years for lower and two years for higher levels. It is an objective to coordinate education and make it more international. The main point is not to streamline education but to improve quality. The basic training for performing and creative music education is a peculiar education that does not fit fully into normal form. Here, exercise over time is required; it is a process that requires maturation – both physically, mentally and creatively. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that for performers the education should be four years at institutions that today see this as necessary to allow the music students to have adequate immersion and perfection. Four years of basic education for performing and creative music education will give the degree of Bachelor, and two years of completion will give the degree master. As the headmaster of the Academy of Fine Arts in Bergen said, it's like the tomato: it takes a lot of time to get the right aroma, and it doesn't get rough and get poorer quality. The study of performing visual arts also falls into the same category, with a time-consuming ageing process, and is therefore to follow the same course of study as for performing music education. As the rapporteur pointed out, only practical and educational studies in the trades dance and choreography are offered. In view of the need for artistically trained teaching staff both in primary and secondary schools, practical education is also needed in the other fields of art. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that closer consideration is being given to the possibility of establishing one-year practical-pedagogical studies at the art colleges. In 2000 St.meld was. No 20), ‘On short-term vocational education and training after secondary education’, submitted. In examining this, it was decided that the government should submit proposals for the law on vocational education. and it has been consulted in those days. The arts schools are approved under the private school law today for the purpose of providing secondary vocational education. In the ministry's further work on the draft consultation, I expect this relationship with the arts schools to be brought up. With regard to the field of study of music, dance, drama and design in higher education, it is important that the performing and artistic skills are also strengthened in line with the requirements of higher education. The Christian People's Party supports the Ministry's recommendation that the School of Art in Oslo be continued and assumes that the agreed co-location of the departments in the Seilduk factory can take place within the agreed time and in accordance with real needs. In the case of higher art education in Tromsø, this is something that also needs to be worked on further. Art training will be important for the country’s understanding of identity. In addition, it is important that there is an offer in visual arts and crafts at higher education level also in that part of the country. I know that the University of Tromsø has been working for a long time to get such an offer. In the Christian People's Party, we share the desire to establish such an education offer as soon as possible, and the offer can be gradually expanded to ensure both funding and good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e382	The message we are handling today is an important part of the quality reform. It's a majority that stands out today, which might give stability and community around how to organize our art education. It is also a choice in art education. It is the same conditions as in other Norwegian higher education. It is therefore proposed that the arts should be integrated into the same structure as other higher education, with three years of basic education and two years of higher education. However, the desire for a more comprehensive system must not go ahead with the main objective of higher art education, which is to develop as high artistic quality as possible among the students. Higher education in art is very high in Norway. To this end, the Committee is in favour of maintaining its 4-year basic education course and two years for a higher level of education. But we believe that it is necessary to prepare the students so that they will receive assignments after they have completed their education. 4+2 years is also the norm for international artists in the field of art education. It would be silly if the music institutions in Norway that are known for doing a very good job were suddenly to become internationally known for being second-rate institutions. It is a fact that the school today does not provide the necessary professional preparation for higher education in executive and creative subjects. There are other offers and secondary education that take care of children and young people's development in this field, such as music and culture schools, arts schools, national colleges, private hours, etc. Nevertheless, it is of course important to give children in primary school greater access to different artistic and cultural expressions and to participate in cultural activity through, for example, The cultural school bag. The left will stress that music and culture schools are a very important offering for children and young people around the municipalities, where they are organised in the school system and voluntary cultural life. Cooperation with local and voluntary cultural life should be strengthened by providing the institutions providing higher education in the field of music and arts to students with relevant competences for voluntary cultural work around the municipalities. We see very many localities that it is a big problem to experience conflicts between the professionals and the volunteers. There is wide variation between the counties in relation to the proportion of students participating in municipal music and cultural schools. That's 22.5 pst. in Nord-Trøndelag, all the way down to 1.7 pst. in Oslo, where there is a large proportion of private education and a large proportion of voluntary cultural life. The goal is 30 pst. such an offer shall be made by the children’s and young people’s schools. The level of intake of higher art education is very high in Norway. The arts schools therefore represent an important and necessary link between secondary and higher art education. Studies at art schools today do not give general study competence. The preparation of a new law on vocational education should consider whether students completing two-year courses in an art subject school should be given the study competence that can be integrated into higher education and university studies. Art education is a special form of education, in which the personality is to be cultivated differently from that of another form of education. This is why talent development is important. Provision is made for a pilot scheme to provide talent in the under-19 age group. It is necessary to clarify that the pilot scheme should cover Norway’s music high school, the former music observatories and secondary schools. This may be misunderstood, and will be misunderstood as it is written in the message under 4.5.4, language development, and as the comment in the committee is written, it may be misunderstood. I therefore need to clarify that the pilot scheme should also include the former music observatories. That's at least our interpretation of the point, and I hope that the Council of State has the same thing. The Oslo School of Art is continuing despite some cooperation problems. To the left, it's important to stick to the co-location and actually think that this can be a great area for Oslo when one gets such a school together at Grünerløkka. Now almost everyone has said that, but we in the Left want to say it again: there is a need for an offer in the field of visual arts and crafts at the university level in North Norway. The government must therefore continue to work on the issue of establishing a visual art education in Tromsø. In North Norway, we'll find those municipalities with the greatest artist density in addition to Oslo, and the president probably understands my position when I say there's probably a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e408	In the evening post of 15 May, the newspaper’s commentator wrote that this was a most required educational reform to improve the quality of higher art education and also contribute to the internationalisation of competences and the environment. I agree. This message is part of the Quality Reform and has focused on the degree structure for higher art education and the further organisation of the Academy of Fine Arts in Oslo. But I have noticed that the Stortinget in its treatment has also put great emphasis on the arts of basic education and the importance of culture for the quality of life of the individual and on the development of the community, and I have among other things. I took note of the Committee's mention of positive actions such as the Cultural School Centre, the National School Concert Board, etc. I am pleased that the Stortinget has supported most of the proposals for higher art education as they are in the communication, and I am also pleased with the rapporteur's statement here, namely that the ordinary degree model for higher art education should now be equal to other education, that is. Bachelor's degree after three years and a two-year extension to Master's degree, the aim of developing Master's degree offers in the subjects which have not been formalised in addition to basic education, the development of post-secondary training offers for those subjects where it will take some time to develop master's studies, the need to change the opera subject to a higher-level study, and the need to develop their own professional disciplines at the art colleges. With regard to the issue of the School of Art in Oslo, there is also a commitment that the College should be continued as a college and that it should be co-located. There is talk here in the Chamber that things are going to happen within the agreed time. To clarify, I don't think there is an agreed time. On the other hand, there is a lease option until 31 December 2004. On two points, Stortinget wanted a change in relation to the announcement made by the Government. Firstly, the majority of the majority of the population want the composition of the board of the Academy of Fine Arts to follow the same rules as those of other educational institutions, and thus do not want an assessment of the majority of the external boards. I take note of that, of course. Secondly, the Stortinget has also proposed that basic training in performing and creative music should be three or four years in institutions that today see this as necessary in order to allow the music students to have adequate immersion and perfectionation. The size thus opens up the option of three or four years in terms of education in music, but like the representative Vidar Bjørnstad, I interpret this to the point that it concerns the studies that today have four years of education. Now, the administrative and economic consequences will be something other than the Government's proposals, and it may take a little longer to implement the foundations of the master's degree study that the notification provides. But all in all, I believe that the Stortinget here facilitates art education that can increase professional status and prestige, which is becoming more compatible with art education in other countries, that we can get art education that becomes more professional, competitive, and that keeps a higher quality level. I'm very happy about that. Let me just finally make a comment about the message itself, where a small incurrency has made that it may not have been quite precise everywhere in the message. This is the case with point 4.5.4 Talent Development. It should be said that a pilot scheme is being put in place to improve the performance of talents under the age of 19. It is necessary to clarify that the pilot scheme should cover Norway’s high school music, former music conservatories and secondary schools. This is elsewhere, but because it is not exactly everywhere, it has provided the basis for certain misunderstandings that may have been introduced into the setting. I hope it's our common interpretation of how it should be, and that it's also said from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e434	I am a little uncertain about some of what the council said, and that is why I asked for a reply. The majority have said that in the case of performing music education, we open for two possible runs, one of 3+2 and the other of 4+2. So the Council of State said that this could have some economic consequences, and that again it could have consequences for the implementation of the reform. I'll react to that a little bit, and I'd like to get a little round on it. Because even if you still have a 4+2 possibility, it is not certain that there will be a total set of longer education. We don't know how many people pick master's degree, and how many who end after three years or four years. I think it's going to be a little wrong – and not just a little bit, it's going to be a little bit wrong – when the Council of State then presnips that this will have some economic consequences in relation to what she has put up with, and that this will have consequences for the implementation of the reform. I hope that doesn't happen, and I'd like the Council to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e441	As the representative of Rikvam indicated, the majority have proposed that there should be a freedom of choice for the institutions in the field of music education. I guess that means, as both I and the representative Vidar Bjørnstad were involved, that it is especially true for those who have a four-year run today, that they will continue to do so. I agree with the representative Rikvam that it is not easy to calculate the economic consequences of the different options, because we do not know the future behaviour of the students. Who wants to take care of basic education, and who wants to take longer education? But overall, it can well be said that what the Stortinge has put up here is likely to lead to a somewhat greater economic impact than the one contained in the notification. Of course, we must do our best in future state budgets to ensure that we implement quality reform as quickly as possible and in a good way. But I thought it was right to mention that a consequence of what the Storting here has done may be that the economic and administrative consequences can be something different than what was in the message, when at the points I mentioned, one has also opted for a slightly different model. But it's absolutely true that it's not that easy to calculate in detail what the consequences will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e448	A Council of State must always do as a majority in the Grand Duchy gives instructions and wishes, and on this occasion a majority wants the Council of State to lie in wait and wait a little while for the composition of the board at the School of Art in Oslo. Tomatoes were supposed to mature, but they can also rot – they can rot on the root – and so can a school that doesn't have a government that works. I will therefore challenge the Council of State to come up here and say if she has the feeling that there is now a improvement in that situation. Or how long will the Council of State sit and wait to see that a school does not work, as it is described, before taking any initiative against a majority in the Grand Duchy? Then I finally want to say that I see in practice that several municipalities today are charging the prices for the premises they rent out to music schools, both at county level and in the municipality. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State have a keen eye on what this development will be like? In narrow municipal economies, you do everything you can to fill up a little bit in the municipal fund, and I see that this goes beyond the institutions that we're talking about here. For example, in Ullensaker, the Progress Party recently promoted a proposal to rent these premises for free. It was voted down by all the parties. Only the Progress Party believed that music education at kindergarten and kindergarten level should be free of charge. Then it's strange to listen to the debate, and it's strange to look at the comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e457	I am a little uncertain about what the representative here is aiming for, but if it was the issue of external governance, which the Progress Party supports, I have noticed that the majority believe that the composition of the board can be like the rest of the sector, which is also being changed, with four internal, scientific or artistic, representatives, four external, two students and one from the technical/administrative sector. We had proposed to consider an external government, because we wanted opportunities to get to a more holistic institution, but I think there should be good opportunities to get to this also with the view of the majority of the Stortinge. In the context of quality reform, we are discussing this much with harmonisation, and the majority of the Grand Duchy here is also a good example of harmonisation. In terms of local rent in the municipalities, I almost get to refer to local self-government. Where it works, it should also be allowed to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e464	It was for this with talent development. The Committee understands that what the Boysen Committee has said about talent development is that Norway's high school of music and the former conservatories – we think, among other things. at Trondheim and the Grieg Academy in Bergen – to be part of this. It is therefore proposed that the Music Training Council should be entrusted with the responsibility of developing a pilot scheme. The Committee fully shares the view that there are several actors involved in this image. So I just want to stress that when we talked about 4+2 in the hall here today, it has only been mentioned the Musikhögskole in Oslo. But it is important to stress that the 4+2 race is at the Grieg Academy in Bergen and at NTNU in Trondheim as well. These three institutions currently have a 4+2 race, and can continue with it just to be able to perfect the students as they wish, and not least the students who want to take this race. It's been important to be able to have different races, because you actually have slightly different goals with the education you're taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e473	This ends in a great harmony. I don't really have much need to answer this, but just say that I have of course noticed this and am aware of which institutions have such a four-year model. At the same time, we are aware that someone has a three-year model, and has given strong support to it to the Ministry and the Government. Both the University of Agder and the College of Stavanger have, among other things, stated that they are pleased with the forward-looking and clear line of the department of St.meld. No 18th@item: So here's the shared opinions. But we understand that it will be allowed to be, and those who have four years will be allowed to continue with it, and the others with what they think is foresight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e478	This is a concrete question to the Council of State. There are two colleges of art mentioned in the communication. One, lying in this town, obviously has problems with itself, finding out of its own form, among other things. The second, which was established in Bergen in 1996, has been given a good shot at what they are doing, including in terms of financial management. But it is also such that there seems to be a significant difference in the framework conditions that are given to these two art colleges. Is it reasonable for the Council of States to show the apparent and evident diversity of treatment in the economic environment that appears to be present and will steps be taken to reduce the diversity of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e483	In fact, here I have to say that I am not sure what the representative Blackevik is aiming for. I am not able to give a good answer to that question, because I am simply not sure what the representative Sortevik is aiming for in terms of different treatment. What I am quite clear about is that the development of these two institutions has been different – and that is explained – and that there have been major problems in Oslo by the fact that the departments have worked more isolated from each other. But we believe that through this message we are now taking action to try to do something about it. I believe that, through Storting's treatment, there is also a good basis for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e488	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3124]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e506	I am asking for the word to correct a bug in the document, and it is an error that has been included from Document No. The 8th proposal. One billion from time to time might not be that much, but when it becomes ten, it means a lot. In the proposal, one indicates that the fund’s capital is raised by DKK 14 billion – that’s right – from DKK 3 billion to NOK 17 billion. It's going to be from $13 billion to $27 billion. That's the right numbers, and you have to be right, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e515	The chairperson of the Committee has thus corrected an error in the voting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3124]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e534	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3125]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e551	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3125]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e568	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3125]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e576	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e583	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 2, from Lena Jensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government is asking the government to set up a system for reporting student travel time to and from school, in order to follow developments in school structure and route.2. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislation to organise the reception areas in general so that travel time from home to school does not exceed 30 minutes for childhood and 45 minutes for youth.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e611	Proposal No. One, from the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for new legislation and new financing arrangements for primary and secondary schools. The size requires a common law for all pupils and that the law provides for the free establishment and operation of private schools based on a system of accreditation and evaluation by an independent body. The size requires a change in funding to direct government funds to the user through a system where the money follows the student.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e696	Here the chairman of the Committee has explained a correction of the vote, where the amount increased from NOK 13 billion to NOK 27 billion. That would be $14 billion. The President will also draw attention to the fact that we will have a rich edition of the election, but the President then assumes that the Storting is aware of what you vote for. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e715	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Vidar Bjørnstad, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to localise the National Agency for Quality of Education outside Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e733	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate a review and modernisation of the Nordic agreements in the field of education in order to facilitate student exchange and recognition of education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e749	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the meeting of the Odel Stingen on 6 June 2002; ‘The decision asks the Government to come back by the end of 2002 with proposals for an independent public oversight system with the Sanctions Authority to ensure that the institutions follow up their responsibility for the learning environment of the students.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Socialist Left will now subsidize the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14.ana.ud2472e771	There is no record.
