ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e28	The called alternate of Akershu County, Ib Thomsen, has taken the seat. The representative Lena Jensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e33	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the Rune Kjellaa and myself to ban advertising in textbooks in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e38	The representative of Ursula Evje will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e41	On behalf of Arne Sortevik, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to propose the creation of an unhidden complaint body for the school. The purpose of the Board of Appeal shall be to ensure legal certainty for users in relation to training, the training environment and school issues in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e46	The representative of Åsa Elvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e49	On behalf of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Hill-Marta Solberg and myself, I would like to make suggestions on restoring the tipphone for environmental crime and economic fraud in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e54	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e77	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson State Council Kristin Clemetstatsråde Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Thank you! We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Karita Bekkelem Orheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e96	My question goes to the Minister of Education. The reactions of parents and students in Oslo School are very strong following the proposal of the City Council to cut 250 teaching positions from the fall. I believe that it is completely impossible to understand the arguments of the representative Inge Wohnung and the Council of State that a staff will lead to an improvement and not a deterioration of the Oslo school, this in a situation where we see through the news picture that the students have to share the laundry lessons, and that the parents probably have to start washing the classrooms in the evening. And at the top of everything we heard in the news today morning that the school floor in Oslo, with the blessing of the Right Town Council, takes 10 kroner a minute to give advice to your own schools. Then it's tempting to ask: is that how Right will govern the Norwegian public school in the future, and is that also how one can now expect other public institutions to start ruling in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e107	To the extent that it is proposed to cut approx. 250 teaching positions in Oslo School, it is related to School Package 2, an agreement with teacher organisations, which means that they have accepted to teach a little more in return for a significant wage increase. This leads to the need for a few fewer teaching positions on a national basis, with a total of approx. Three hundred and six hundred. But this is under the natural mobility of the teacher's corps, and is probably not going to cause a big problem when we have a lack of teachers. In addition, there is a claim in the media from the Federation of Education, i.e. from a stakeholder organisation, that it needs to be further cut approximately. 200 posts. I have not been able to verify those claims so far. But let me say this: User studies recently conducted in Oslo show that the audience in Oslo is very pleased with the teaching in Oslo School. What they're not so happy about when it comes to school is the physical equipment, among other things. indoor climate. And what's now happening in Oslo within about the same school budgets as last year is that you turn some of the resource use into maintenance. One billion in 2002 will be spent on maintenance in Oslo School, which means that the operating budgets will otherwise become slightly tighter. But let me say this: even if you had to tighten up a little – this claim is about 200 jobs of many thousands – the Oslo School lies sky high above the country in terms of the number of teaching hours. In fact, the Oslobians get one year more education, because they have 19 more hours of week. And the teacher's density in Oslo is higher than in the other big cities, and is still going to be that even if the Education Association's claims were to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e118	We know that the right copied Tony Blair in the election campaign by repeating: school, school, school. It was a success. We know that the voters believed in the right big shot at school, and it turned out that the right just came into the government position. I believe that what is now happening in Oslo School is totally unacceptable for several reasons. Of course, we should also do something to improve the indoor environment and climate in Norwegian schools, but at the same time, the Council of State cannot waive responsibility for the situation in which we now see that several of the Oslo schools are in. It will be seen as dramatic in relation to the school we've had, whose parents now have to wash the schools in the evening. Then I don't think the argument that the Council of State is now making will have any special hearing in the population of this municipality. The working party wants to have a high-quality school, but then you also have to be honest and admit that quality costs. And that's exactly where I think the Right has bombed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e127	It is clear that I do not waive any responsibility, but I respect local self-government. I respect the right of municipalities to prioritize within the limits they have, and I respect most of all the priority given to the people. And the Oslo people say that education is on top, but they say that maintenance could be better. Therefore, there is a distortion of resource use within about the same framework, the same budgets, as for last year. Otherwise, I just have to say that if you have not realized that there is no clear link between appropriations – they are and still have to be very high, we are at the top of the world – and quality, there is still much to learn. In my view, there is a much greater need for system reforms in relation to public schools than for them to continue to increase at a high rate. Let me give you an example: A principal in Oslo school said on TV yesterday that the problem with the contractions she said she had to do was that she couldn't do it until the end of the year. Then I asked myself, "What freedom of action does that leader have?" What links have we put on the leader who is unable to implement measures now, so that cuttings may become outrageous?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e136	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e139	Parent exposure, the parents getting engaged, is good, and here in Oslo School we have a situation where they have gone to quite drastic measures. They've been on strike. They've taken the kids out of school for one hour because the frame hour is reduced. As I've seen it from what the papers have written, it's pretty dramatic in the frame hour. And this goes beyond education, this reduces the possibility of sharing groups, it reduces the ability to create a good school. These are the facts, and it surprises me a little bit that the Council of State is taking this so easily. She covers herself behind the local self-government and says that she can't do anything about this. The SVS and my basic question are: will the Council of State be involved in setting a minimum standard, so that we can ensure a minimum number of hours so that the teaching of both group and individualised training can be maintained? Or are you going to continue with a weakening of Norwegian school, as it happens now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e146	The question of a minimum number of teaching hours has relatively little meaning for Oslo, so Oslo is sky high above all other municipalities. There's 19 more hours, so that's one more year of schooling. In the case of the word ‘dramatic’, we first need to clarify what the consequences are. For the time being, the Education Association has been talking about this. It's about. 200 teachers, and as far as I know, it's about. 9 000 teachers in Oslo School, at least it's approx. 6 000 to 7 000 year-olds. They have the same budgets as before, but there has been a distortion within the budgets, which means that DKK 1 billion will be used for maintenance in 2002. Then there will be a somewhat tighter operating budget. But what can the state do? The state is responsible for large parts of the municipal economy. We have experienced a decline in interest rates in our period. It has strengthened the municipal economy, and we have said that we will look at the situation of the big cities in particular, and we have also implemented a loan scheme for school construction, which is DKK 15 billion over a few years. Of course, I follow the situation carefully, but first I must have clarified the consequences, and I am not willing to say that what we have seen so far is necessarily dramatic. But what I can imagine is that the state can help the school get even more room for action to adapt to changing framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e156	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e159	It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that Oslo is one of the municipalities that have more education than many others. It is also the municipality that has the absolute majority of students in each class, so it is not certain that the quality of teaching is still the best. The council says that there is a lot that can be done without money, and that is quite right. But it also costs money to create a good school. The package of school buildings is a loan arrangement, as the council itself says, of NOK 15 billion. We're glad the new government is following it up. It costs money to remove the excesses in school, it costs money to buy computer equipment and broadband connections, and it costs money to give each student a proper follow-up. That's why $15 billion is needed for school construction, money is needed for data, money is needed for teacher pay. School Package 1 cost $1 billion. My question to the Council of State: should the Council of State continue the policy that the new government put up in the budget, namely to create a better school without being willing to spend more money on it? You've spent some money on giving someone one extra class, but you took them from money to books in high school. So my question is, does the Council of State see that she also needs to spend more money at school to create a good school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e168	I am going to spend both more money and to commit myself vigorously to system reforms in Norwegian school to improve quality. I have to remind you that there was a huge majority against the Government that actually changed the budget that I am in charge of, in order to give to the study funding, and that was when, among other things, it became. Cut in school, so I wasn't the one who stood for that profile. But I have to remind you that Norway is completely at the top of the world when it comes to resource use in school. Nevertheless, the results include: by the Labour Party School, that we are cutting averages in terms of professional outcomes – we have a huge gap between strong and weak students. And then we have to ask ourselves, can there be anything about the system that makes us unable to get quality up? I think that, among other things, has been too much and too detailed national governance and too little room for action locally for teachers, school managers and municipalities, who have made them responsible, to create a better school. So I'm going to have a two-part commitment. It's going to be about resources, but I think it's very important to raise awareness and make all of us responsible for the school, to try to get to a better school without just thinking about money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e175	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e178	I have a question of supervision, also to the Minister of Education. The Ministry is responsible for the supervision of schools in municipal, county and private ownership. The supervisory work has been added to the State Training Offices in the counties. In Oslo, Muslim schools, primary and secondary schools are established. The party was and is critical of the establishment of its own Muslim schools, which, in the view of the party, are in direct contradiction with the strongly expressed wishes of all political teams for active integration. As I have been informed, these two Muslim schools have not been supervised. My question to the Council of State is short and good: why has there not been supervision at Muslim schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e187	We have training offices to supervise the schools, in all the counties, which the Blackevik representative is in. I am not aware of the fact that these schools are not supervised, but I will gladly undertake to check and come back with information about that. In general, we can say that we have reports that the supervisory task is carried out a little differently. I believe that the supervisory task is very important, especially if we're going to go across a regime where we run a little less nationally, hopefully more clearly, and leave to local forces to design the school. Then the supervisory task becomes important and quality control is important in order for us, as students, parents and the public, to be sure that we have a good school. Just this with Muslim schools – whether or not the representative Blackevik likes it, it is related to the current private school law. I have notified here before that the government intends to propose a modified private school law. It will happen if not very long, and I think that one of the things we have to look at is the different purposes that are in the law, and that have become somewhat more difficult to practice after the time has passed and we see that it leads to an unfortunate judgment exercise and partly what I want to call political arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e196	I thank you for your answer. What we also have to take care of is that all kinds of private schools are supervised, no matter what source they have. We also need to focus on the leadership that has been put in place for the approval of individual private schools, and that, as far as I know, is quite strict in the establishment of both Muslim schools, where it is, among other things. emphasis shall be placed on the inclusion of democratic and human rights principles and values in education. Education to combat prejudice and discrimination, to promote mutual respect and tolerance, and to focus on gender equality, shall be provided. So here's a lot to deal with, given the attitudes that have emerged from some parts of the immigrant community, where you actually show a lack of respect and acceptance for Norwegian laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e201	I fully agree with the representative of Sortevik that, of course, all schools approved in Norway, whether approved under the Education Act or the Private School Act, must be required to receive public support, and the representative Sortevik has referred to some of them. Quality and content requirements are required and adequate monitoring is also required. I believe that the control task in the future can be somewhat facilitated by the fact that we are currently seeing the development of quality assessment systems and quality assurance systems, and that transparency in this respect is increasing. It's going to be public schools, but it's also going to be about private schools – it's going to be about private schools – and then I think the audience will get more insight beyond the transparency that education agencies are getting, and sometimes they don't have the ability to acquire. However, I agree with Mr Sortevik that quality and content requirements must be imposed when we approve schools in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e206	There will be follow-up questions – Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e209	The previous government introduced a reasonably new practice in approving private schools. I think of the Oasen school, and that the school and its material and educational arrangements were to be approved or presented to the Equality Ombudsman. In this context, can the Council of State say whether the Equality Ombudsman has been in and approved correspondingly for the Urtehågen school, or whether the Council of State wants the Equality Ombudsman to look at relations at the Urtehågen school? We know that there are quite a number of women's discriminations taking place in these environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e217	Oasis is a school that has been approved by the current government. As the representative is probably familiar with, we put a great deal of emphasis on clarifying that the equality law should be followed, and the school's material was for the full assessment and review of the Equality Ombudsman, who gave his views on this material. We said that the views of the Equality Ombudsman should be followed here, and that was agreed by the school. They agreed to it, and on this basis they were granted approval. It goes without saying that when I mean it about the Oasis, I mean it in general. It can't be that there's someone who's going to follow the Equality Act, and others aren't. I also know that prior to my time, under the leadership of the then Council of State Giske, a separate oversight of some of these schools was initiated, without finding anything significant to object to, at least not when it was the content that we are talking about here. So from my point of view, it is quite clear that the Equality Act should be followed, and we have used the Equality Ombudsman as a resource to interpret both the teaching materials and the understanding of the Equality Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e225	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e228	There are still strong claims, both in this room and elsewhere, about private schools in general and life - vision schools in particular. As far as I know, in Norway, a single study has never been carried out in research that can provide evidence of, for example: whether private schools are segregated or inhibiting the integration of minority children. Such research has been carried out in our neighbouring country, Sweden, and provides very interesting results. It would also be close to assuming that when this is such a politically interesting topic, it would have to be desirable to document what is actually happening both professionally and in terms of social attitudes in private schools. Will the Council of State take the initiative to launch such research projects in Norway in order to gain knowledge – instead of claims – about what is actually going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e237	This I think is interesting. After I became Minister of Education, I have registered that the school sector is probably an ‘undergraduate’ area at all. There have been little research in very many areas. I have taken an initiative to hold regular so-called specialist seminars in the department, where I also invite researchers. It is very interesting, in part, to have the research done, because it turns out that we know a part that has not benefited the public, and not the political environment to an adequate degree, but in addition, there are areas that need more research. This is one area that can be the subject of research. I want to mention another one, which can also be relevant to this with private schools, and that's that there's been little classroom research, in the sense that you know little about the learning strategies used and how they work. And getting into the classroom, both in the public school and in these private schools that are claimed, could be very interesting for the further debate, so I'm taking this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e244	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e247	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment a question. The Minister for the Environment has made an honest effort to stop emissions from Sellafield, and he has the full support of Stortinget and SV. But now the situation is that his efforts are undermined by the state's own money. State power has large holdings in a Swedish company that operates three nuclear power plants in Sweden. Since 1998, this company has been working to allow Swedish authorities to import and use MOX, which is a fuel consisting of, for example, uranium and plutonium. They have not yet been allowed to do so by the Swedish authorities. Nevertheless, this company has entered into a contract with Sellafield to start the production of MOX, and the agreement between the Swedish and English companies allowed the English authorities to increase the activity of Sellafield. Now the Swedish company uses this as a breakpoint to the Swedish authorities. So our money is talking the opposite way of Børge Burnde. What does he want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e254	The reason why the Government has stepped up its work on Sellafield and the fight against technetium-99 emissions, which are then radioactive emissions, is that during the spring the UK government is likely to decide whether to continue this cumbersome practice. It is totally unacceptable for the United Kingdom to discharge radioactive waste in the Irish Sea, with the result that it will also cross the entire Norwegian coast and all the way up to Svalbard. What the Norwegian Government has not started is a campaign against nuclear power in general. We in Norway do not use nuclear power — fortunately — but it is worth remembering that nuclear power nations such as Finland and Sweden have also been involved in the fight against technetium-99 emissions from Sellafield. It is totally unacceptable that the United Kingdom, which can store radioactive emissions and clean them, chooses to use the sea as a dumping site. Now we're going to agree on this, and I'm surprised that parties that have given full support to this are now trying to involve other issues, which in themselves are interesting to discuss, but which may weaken us in the fight against technetium-99. Several countries that are themselves engaged in nuclear power activities support us in this. So I hope that at first we can concentrate on stopping these unnecessary radioactive emissions along with the other Nordic countries, and also with other EU countries and Ireland. [[The President clubs.]] And then we're going to have a discussion about the MOX factory, which we've been protesting against, and which is not part of these technetium-99 emissions, but which of course is related to the entire plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e266	If we try to stay away from the technicalities here, the situation is as follows: using Norwegian money, a Swedish company has first pushed forward the possibility to increase the activity of the Sellafield plant and then uses it as a breakbone and extortion to the Swedish authorities. So this is a case where the Swedish authorities insist on allowing this substance to be imported. Is it so to understand that Børge Burnde thinks it's perfectly okay that we now concentrate on one part of the emissions from Sellafield and thus not interfere with anything else, or does he want to play with Swedish authorities to limit that kind of business, while our money is doing something else? There's something called'money talk'. And in politics and business, and especially in the case of the Norwegian State's own holdings, must there be a certain connection? Or doesn't the Minister for the Environment think so?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e271	We have had close and good cooperation with all parties in the Stortinget in the fight against radioactive discharges from Sellafield. And we're going to continue that work until the United Kingdom ends with these emissions. Another discussion, which has been going on in this Chamber for many years, is the criteria to be used by the Petroleum Fund in relation to its investments. The size has not adopted any criterion as compared to the fact that the Petroleum Fund cannot invest in nuclear power companies around the world. If the Storting wants it to be included as a criterion in relation to the 1,700 companies in which the Petroleum Fund has chosen to invest, it is free to go up to the Stortinget, and it can then be taken up in the context of the revised national budget. The Minister of Finance did not recommend it in the Question Time last Wednesday. What I'm saying now, and which I'm warning against, is trying to fool and weaken the government in a very important effort to end the techentium-99 emissions, and saying that we're weakened in this fight because we don't want to change the criteria of the Petroleum Fund. Sweden and Finland support us in the tecnetium-99 play and in the fight against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e278	It will be follow-up questions – Synnove Konglevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e281	Sellafield was discussed in Stortinget yesterday, and I just want to repeat what I said then, there is a broad political consensus on the fight against the release of technetium-99. We in the Labour Party believe it is natural for the Minister for the Environment to continue his long-term work in this matter. Among other things – as the Minister for the Environment was involved – the Nordic governments joined forces last August, when Siri Bjerke was Minister for Environmental Protection. I now register that Børge Brende rejects the issues and information that have arisen in the newspaper today, and believes that a discussion of such things could weaken Norway's case. So I'm going to be okay and not ask if the Minister for the Environment will do anything in this case – I just want to ask him: does he think it's problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e288	I do not reject the information given in particular. Today's newspaper. The clock of damage I think we're all a little reluctant to draw clear conclusions from a newspaper headline about the Petroleum Fund's investments in a day when it's spontaneous. What is my view and that of the Government in this matter is that the investment of the Petroleum Fund does not create any problems in relation to the strong commitment we now have, and the increased pressure that we are now trying to create towards the United Kingdom when they are now going to decide whether to continue to use the sea as a dumping area for radioactivity. But it is clear that if the Stortinget now wants to say that we are weakened in the fight against completely unreasonable emissions because the Petroleum Fund among the 1,700 companies they invest in has also chosen to invest in nuclear power companies, it is of course free up to the Stortinget. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President Clubs Again]] If the Workers' Party so wishes
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e294	The President must ask both the representatives and the Councils to deal with speaking time. It goes by clock, so you have full opportunity during the answer to keep track of how much time you have left. The president doesn't think it's any fun to go clubbing, but he'll have to if you don't keep up with the speaking time. Hallgeir Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e299	I'll do a test on it. The Council of State does not want to answer the question from Kristin Halvorsen by focusing on the fact that we want to say something in relation to the MOX problem. State power is, through South Power, the owner of the Oscarshamn nuclear power. Oscarshamn nuclear will buy MOX fuel from Sellafield. The council yesterday said he's critical of the British government starting this MOX factory. So once again, there is support for the Minister of the Environment for us from the SV. But the problem is the following: if a Norwegian owner is involved in the purchase from a factory that the Minister for the Environment does not want, does he think that is sensible policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e306	Several issues related to the MOX plant have been raised that, in isolation, have nothing to do with the technetium-99 emissions, which are most in focus in Norway today. When Britain last 3 October, as far as I remember, decided to open up an MOX factory, which is also a form of nuclear reprocessing, we protested. In January I took the initiative to have a review of the non-commercial research carried out at the Halden reactor related to MOX fuel. If it is the case that the Stortinget wants to expand the Petroleum Fund's extraction mechanism to include investments in nuclear companies, it is of course up to Stortinget. The Finance Minister did not recommend such a solution in the Questionnaire last Wednesday, and that is, of course, the Government's view.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e311	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e314	I have a question for the Minister for Development, because the Minister for Local Affairs has made some vague thoughts about the link between aid money and asylum issues. If a person is to be faithful to released mediums such as NTB, NRK and the Evening Post, the municipal minister has said that he should use aid money to press countries to receive his own citizens who have travelled and applied for asylum. The Minister for Development has said that she will not comment on this because it has not been dealt with in the Government. It's a good principle, but it'll be a quiet government if it's going to be the rule. But has the Government now discussed this, so that the Minister for Development can give an answer as to whether to use means of assistance as the press, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said? And isn't it a problem that the Minister of State is calculating some countries, such as Syria, Turkey and Somalia, where one is going to push with aid money, countries with which we don't actually have the means to push?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e319	The representative of Blankenborg refers to loose media, and there is no doubt that we have also discussed bilaterally with the Council of State, my colleague Erna Solberg, what was actually said. In any case, it is clear that, on her part, it was intended primarily to cooperate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in reaching foreign policy agreements with countries, so that return could take place. In the case of aid, where she perceived that she was not quoted in an entirely adequate way, it is, as the representative of Blankenborg points out, a very important principle issue, and it could also have a major precedent for development cooperation. It is also true that some of the countries mentioned by the representative are not and will not. It is natural, however, that we first have a thorough and proper discussion of this in the Government in the ordinary way, and only then will it be appropriate to inform the Government's view of the Greatness.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e324	So we can see that the Minister of State is right in saying that this is a principle that the Government is ready to discuss, so that any aid can be used, where appropriate, as a means of repatriating asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e329	The representative of Blankenborg is well aware of how the Government deals with matters, and if questions are formally raised by the Council of State, they should be dealt with properly. Then the government will do it, if necessary, and then the government will orientate the Storting. Until then, and until that happens, the situation is that today's vision and current attitude are firm, which is that there is no aid in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e334	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e337	It is likely that the Minister of State said in himself that he was reasonably clear. Is the Council of State saying today that it understands that the Government is going back on what the Minister of State is warning? Could it also be that there are more input from the government council, Solberg, in recent times when it concerns refugee and asylum policy, which also concerns human rights issues, which will be discussed in a different way in the government than it may seem that they have become now, and that one will also experience at that point that a moment will pass before the government puts Solberg's thoughts into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e342	With regard to the opinions of the Solberg Council, I heard the opinions of Dagsrevyen as well as others, and it was said ‘look at’, ‘assess’ and ‘go through’. It was not announced that the policy would be changed with regard to aid, but that dialogue and cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be sought. So no policy change has been announced, and as I also said to the representative Blankenborg in my answer to his question, it is that until a policy change should possibly be launched, the status quo applies, and the status quo is that aid funds are not used in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e348	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e351	Let me first say that I find it rather strange that Norway has to conclude agreements in order to send back people who belong in another country. But it is clear that the Progress Party supports the performance of the Minister of Municipalities. I registered that the Council of State on ‘Table’ on TV 2 yesterday, in a debate there, stressed that there were major demands for the use of Norwegian aid. She made that quite clear in that program. Then my question is: is there no requirement at all regarding the means of assistance in bringing such persons back, both in relation to Norway's demand to send out the illegal persons in Norway and in relation to the problems that the Council of State pointed to in that programme yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e356	There is no doubt that strict demands are being made for the use of Norwegian aid, and not least from the entire international donor community to our countries of cooperation. I can mention that the macroeconomic requirements are being imposed, for example: from the International Monetary Fund and from the World Bank, which is also supported by the international donor community, is so tough that I think a good deal of big business representatives would get hold of it. There are so extensive demands and control mechanisms in most of our co-operation countries that I believe we can actually sometimes see that we have an overdose here. With regard to the question of return claims, I would like to underline what was also referred to regarding the country. This is about countries like Syria, Northern Iraq and Somalia. There is therefore no Norwegian aid cooperation. It's also about Ethiopia and Eritrea. Against Ethiopia and Eritrea – through the war that has been waged, which has now resulted in peace – Norwegian public assistance has been frozen, so this is not seen as a current instrument either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e363	It's going to be a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e366	I want to follow up a bit of this that the Minister of Education answered in the first question in the Question Time. It's actually not just in Oslo schools that the number of teachers is cut, and the budgets are cut. What really worries me is that the Minister of Education doesn't worry about school budgets being cut around the Commune-Norway. My question is this: is the Council of State concerned about a budgetary situation around the municipalities that forces the schools to cut split hours, cut project education, reverse education and deprive schools of the opportunity to organise education as they see the students need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e375	It is clear that as Minister of Education, I am concerned if I see good action being taken at school, cuts in good practice, etc. But I also think I have a duty to ask why it happens. Why is this happening around the schools? Then I don't think the answer is always as simple as it's about more money. I believe that a major problem in the public sector, including at school, is that the concept of responsibility in the public sector is, in part, unclear and, in part, not respected. That is why in the public sector – I have to say we are involved in unfortunately – some kind of problem transport game. You're more concerned with blaming others or transporting problems to others than trying to solve the problems you're responsible for. After all, it would be politically predictable, almost boring, if, as Minister of Education, I were to defend all the municipalities and their school policies where the Right or one of the government parties rules, and criticise where, for example. The Workers' Party is in charge. I don't want to be such a councillor. I want to respect local democracy and help local democracy, school owners, school leaders and teachers, to do the best possible job. Of course, I can help them by contributing to increased resources. But I think I can also help them through system reforms. There I think we have a lot to do in Norwegian school. I also want to ask myself when this happens: why does it happen? Is it because school is a priority? Does it happen because you have less money? Or does it happen because you don't have the creativity and the space for action to solve the problems in another way? I'm going to promise the representative of the Schjellaa that I'm quite a lot around now talking to school leaders, school teachers, etc., and not everything is about money. It's also about getting the room for action and taking advantage of the space for action to be good teachers and good leaders. There are a lot of them, and they should get even better opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e382	I've also been around many schools, and I feel that there's a lot of creativity around. But what is the great despair is that the principals feel that plans like they had for really good and good quality education can't actually be carried out because one decides that school budgets should be cut. Then the question is, how are we going to achieve the good goal of having organized education? In the past, the Minister of Education has said that teachers are actually the school's most important resource. We very much agree with that. But then removing teachers doesn't help. I believe, and hope, that the Council of State agrees, that increasing teacher density and adult density is an important tool in organising education for the individual. What we see is that individual decisions on individual livers are increasing. I think that is also an expression that the resource situation is difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e389	Just what happens with regard to the budget for primary schools around the municipalities, we do not have an exact answer to per cent. today. I have seen a survey among a small number of municipalities in the direction of KS, where it appeared, if I remember correctly, that approx. 70 pst. of the municipalities that were asked to keep school budgets unchanged or increased. So, as far as I remember, there was a number that planned to reduce school budgets. Of course, we should go into it more closely. But there is also a question of priority. Local democracy means that it is possible to give different priorities. So I guess it's good to remember that we have something called municipal elections. It's supposed to be a day of judgment. The electorate shall then put in place the policy-makers who give priority as they wish. So here, there is an opportunity to also make school policy an active part of municipal policy. But I think we're doing the municipalities a bear service by imagining that it's just about money, that's the problem. Adapting education is about many more questions than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e394	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e397	It's good that we have a government council asking questions about why the situation is like he is. Otherwise, something else would be missing only with the high profile that Right had in the election campaign for a better school. The actual situation is that of a large number of municipalities, a third are reporting back according to the KS study that they have to cut their school supply already in 2002. There are 75 municipalities that are on a special list, which are followed in particular, and which probably don't get part of these 15 billion that the Government has promised for school buildings. The County of More and Romesdal, Fostervoll, says that when local authorities have to spend their money on interest and deductions, it goes without saying that the service supply is drying out. What does the Government do to get the best overview possible to deliver both in the 2002 budget and beyond?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e404	Of course, the government will try to get the very best information about the situation. The local economy has been strengthened in 2002, which has been a decline in interest rates that also strengthens the local economy. Of course, we have the municipal economy for observation, and the municipal minister has said that we want to look at the situation of the big cities in particular, so we have to do that job absolutely. But at the end of the day when it comes to school policy, we also have to be interested in the main question: what are we really going to achieve with the school? What we're going to achieve is the best learning outcomes for the students. Studies show that Norway is at the global peak in resource use, but that learning outcomes are only on average and to some extent very low. Then we have to ask ourselves, what can happen to it? If the money were all things' solution, this wouldn't be a problem. That's when we were supposed to be on top. There must be other explanations, and we must also be interested in them. Moreover – as I have said many times now: if we are serious about local self-government, if we are serious about having framework funding in some areas because it should be possible to prioritise differently, then we must respect that this can happen, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e412	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e415	A while ago, we finally got rid of the blackmail game and the discharge in the case of hospitals – the responsibility was formerly under the county council, and politicians in the county council and in the Stortinget drove and disfellowshiped each other. Now, the Council of State is rightly saying that she does not want to participate in the ‘problem transport’ game, namely to argue whether it is possible to solve it here in Stortinget, or in the municipalities, which are currently responsible for school activities. I understand that, and it's fine. The remarkable thing is that other parties, who do not want the state to take responsibility for the school, ask questions here in the house about the priorities of each municipality. But will the Council of State agree that it may be reasonable to change the system also for school activities, so that the State assumes financial, direct responsibility for the school, and that the money is allocated to Norwegian schoolwork from the state, based on the principle that the money follows the student?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e422	First of all, not to participate in the problem transport game. I've set the goal of trying to avoid it. Sometimes it's hard. I was in Tromsø a while ago – run by the Workers' Party, as far as I know. Most people there would think that the schools are in a terrible constitution, but I don't think it has any special purpose that I, as Minister of Education, only spend my time disfellowshipping the community management there, but rather assisting them in trying to get to a better school. As far as school is concerned, we want to engage both in the professional content of the school and in the representative of Hagen, who is now involved, namely the modernisation of the framework. The framework acts, among other things: on financial instruments. And I think it might be necessary to go in and look at it. There are two possible development pathways here: we can imagine that the state took responsibility for all the schools in Norway – I don't think that's a fool's way to go, and we can imagine more local self-government. However, it is clear that local self-government and framework funding can also determine municipalities, for example. that the money is slightly more closely followed by the student. This is in line with the principles of the modernisation declaration presented by Mr Norman to the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e429	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e432	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: The Minister for the Environment has announced that the Government will continue its efforts to establish new national parks and increase government protection efforts. The protection policy put forward by the Government here has serious consequences for private owners affected. An article in Today’s Business on 4 February shows that the planned National Park in Snåsa and Lierne will result in more families losing their right to dispose of the farm and home and thus being forced away from their properties. The leader of Vinje Right, Bjørn Skinnarland, says to the newspaper Nations that the proposal involves state theft of private property. He says that the proposal of the Environment Minister, Børge Burnde, to create new parks and protected areas is state theft of private property purchased and paid. Can the Council of State explain to me why it is good right-wing policy to seize private property, which causes people to be driven from farm and land?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e445	Had the premise on the question been right, it would not have been good right-wing policy. 100 years ago it was about 100 years ago. 50 pst. by Norway wild land. Today it's about 10 pst. The question, addressed by the Stortinget in the early 1990s, was whether or not to retain the wilderness that is now left, through the establishment of landscape protection areas, national parks, etc. In the mid-1980s, the government also took a decision on the compensation rules to be applied in the case of protection, and it was then decided that, in the case of nature reserves, even if one could continue to own, compensation should be paid for similar expropriation. In the case of national parks and landscaping areas, economic losses are replaced. But I have also recorded that there is now a debate about the economic compensation is sufficient. There is also a Document No. Eight proposals in the Stortingen to be answered by the Government. I think that there are important issues to be addressed here, but I hope that the Stortinget will stick to the national park plan and the protection plan adopted at the beginning of the 1990s, because it is a fact that in Norway we have not protected as much as other countries. If we look at coniferous protection, 1 is pst. of coniferous forest in Norway protected, while in Finland and Sweden 5 pst. protected. And the coniferous forest is crucial for maintaining many important biotopes. There are, after all, 400 species that are listed and threatened in Norway, and this is not least because many important biotopes are disappearing. As regards the state farms in the Nord-Trøndelag that were mentioned, I will go into that matter. The ministry has not got it on the table, but I think it is bad if it ends up having to move them from the farm and land.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e456	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The planned national park in Snåsa and Lier leads, as it were, to the seizure of large private forest properties. And to take one example, four of these private properties have forest at a value of 10 million. kr, which is currently worthless. Will the Right-State Council provide full compensation in respect of the market price to landowners seized by the State, regardless of what is called the seizure, protection or otherwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e463	I'm a bit in the mood for the choice of words the representative of Korsberg uses here, with state theft and seizure of areas. What this government does, and what previous governments have done, is follow up decisions in the United Kingdom in relation to the establishment of national parks — as happens in other countries. It is true that if an area is protected – as I also mentioned instead – as a nature reserve, then one is compensated as if it were expropriation. If it is the establishment of national parks and protected areas, the Stortinget has decided to replace the financial losses suffered. And that replacing the financial losses you suffer is to be presented as sequestration and state theft, I have a little difficulty understanding. However, there is now a proposal in the Grand Duchy to further increase compensation in the case of safeguard decisions, and we shall now look at that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e468	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e471	Only to underline it: the term ‘state theft’ was a quote from a Right-Rapporteur. The introduction of the so-called 25-meter rule into the beach zone has led to major protests from private owners of land. Right-wing former environmental policy spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, calls this an unacceptable attack on established rights. And his party trap Onarheim also asks clear questions about whether it is necessary to legislate the 25-meter rule, according to the Business of the Day on February 15. If you go to the Right Internet site, you can read the following: ‘Hearers have a fundamental respect for ownership, and under no circumstances will we go in to enforce the 25-metre rule by law. It's not coming up! It must be possible to treat people with respect." My question will therefore be: is the Council of State completely overrun by its colleagues in the Government of the Christian People's Party and the Left in this matter? And is the Council of State insisting on introducing the 25-metre rule into the beach zone, which must be contrary to what the Right at least says they stand for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e483	In fact, in a cooperative government, in some cases we also have to bow to other parties. It is in the spirit of cooperation. But there is no current issue in this case. Now it's probably a different question the representative addresses, than what was the main question. He addresses a question that is now being dealt with in Stortinget through the open-air communication, which the Government has not drawn, and to which there are already observations from various parts of the committee, so I don't think I should go any further. As regards the reference to a local association leader in the Right, his opinion was related to the claims paid in connection with the protection of Hardangervidda. I would like to remind you that it was Mr Willoch who, in 1983, put forward proposals on the compensation rules that are in force today, in favour of additional compensation in respect of reserve areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e493	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e496	I just felt the need to clarify what the government really thinks about 25 meters, because we have perceived that once the government has left the matter in Stortinget, it is because the government actually agrees with the proposal of the government of Stoltenberg that there should be free movement in the beach zone, 25 meters between the cabin and the sea. Then it is important to clarify whether the Council of State still believes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e501	The Council of State still considers that the issue now raised is not a follow-up to the main issue, which concerned the rules on compensation for the establishment of national parks. Now the representative Brustad also raises a question that lies in Stortinget for consideration, a matter where Brustad is also the case rapporteur. That matter will be dealt with by the majority. The government has said its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e506	Then we are all aware that the Government has said its own. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e511	I have a question to the Secretary of State Clement. The Labour Party is committed to recruiting more women for leadership positions in both the public and private sectors, and we will also use gender quotas. Here we have in the field of education, among other things. earmarked funding for professorship positions at the University of Oslo. This has been criticised by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, for breaching EU legislation. Our government chose to stand on the original point of view that it is right to use gender quoting to achieve equality. I'm glad the government has chosen to follow the same line. But today, in the VG, I see that the Council of State has some fundamental counter-representations for the use of gender-quotaing to achieve equality, and I ask myself, is it with the pen retention that the Government has taken the position that gender-quotaing is correct? And will the Council of States be active in relation to the EU system to follow our line?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e518	Just a little side note: I notice that VG today uses the same types in the heading of this case, which is about quotaing, as they used in the terrorist attacks on Twin Tower, which were about war. This is a matter that lies under the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, but I think the representative here is guilty of a misunderstanding. I'm very busy getting to diversity and gender diversity in many parts of society. We're running a teacher recruitment campaign to get more men into school. And I've decided, as the representative was in it, to continue the matter regarding the designation of postdoctoral positions for women in the university and higher education system. I'm not against quota. I'm probably skeptical about radical quotaing, but I'm a member of moderate quotaing. I don't think that's the problem. But what this other matter is about, and as my involvement in my former work was about, is whether the state should decide over the private sector and the stock democracy. Of course, I'm not against private companies deciding to quota. I myself have been in charge of private companies that have decided to have quotas. So here's the question of who's going to decide who. But this matter has not been dealt with by the Government, and I will normally give my approval there in relation to this matter when it comes there. As far as private companies are concerned, I would just like to say that the Davøy State Council has already made it quite clear that the most far-reaching proposals, which concern small enterprises and all limited companies, etc., have been put aside for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e527	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I take it for granted, even though she did not make it quite clear, that she will actively follow up our case with regard to the designation of senior positions at universities in relation to the EU system. I would like to ask an additional question: if one first has a principle counter-simulation against the use of gender quotas, as it is stated in newspapers today, what should be the difference between the use of gender quotas in the public sector and the private sector, respectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e534	I'm probably explaining myself badly. I have not expressed myself in principle about quotaing, but who will decide that it should be allocated. I'm not against the private sector deciding that they want to quota in the private sector, that the government decides to quota in the public sector, or that the parties decide to quota in their lots. The question is whether others should decide about them. That's the fundamental question that I've been committed to in my former work in the NHO. So it's a misunderstanding when the representative thinks I spoke about the principle of quotaing. Of course, I will actively follow up on the position I have taken with regard to the university and higher education sector, which is a government sector run by the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e539	Carl I. Hagen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e542	Now we've got two answers from different state councils that make me have to follow up on what we're going to trust now in relation to what state councils are saying in the future. At first it was the Minister of Development who said that municipal minister Erna Solberg spoke the other day, that the government was not in favour, that was not discussed in the government. So it was a state council that thought high, but it doesn't really matter. The Minister of Education and Research now says that the views of another Council of State, Laila Davøy, in a TV programme yesterday were expressed with very strong steadfastness and clarity in a debate with the head of the NHO, in reality not at the expense of the Government, for it was her high opinion and was not discussed. Then I have the following questions for one of the three: Is this a new attitude and policy of the Government, that when government councils make public statements in the media, is it not necessarily government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e549	That is the way the representative of Blankenborg was talking about earlier today, that if the government were just to talk about matters that have already been formally dealt with in the Government, it could be quite quiet. So we're generally speaking in our areas. This case concerning amendments to the Equality Act has been outside public debate under three governments. It is now approaching a time when the hearing opinions are finally to be considered, as far as this is concerned, and that is the task of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, the Minister for Gender Equality. She said in the media yesterday, as it is true, that this matter is about to be dealt with in the government, and there I am sitting, and then I will participate in the debate. But the public debate has been going on under three governments and under several equality ministers, so that's nothing new. There has been no consultation proposal since the Bondevik I Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e557	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e562	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives Bjørn Jacobsen and Åsa Elvik, respectively, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are moved and answered at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in response to question 32, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 3, from the representative Jan Simonsen to the Minister of Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State is busy in another meeting. Question 10, from the representative Lena Jensen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, was answered by the Minister for Justice who directed him. Question 13, from the representative Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Education and Research, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 17, from the representative May Hansen of the Minister of Education and Research, is addressed by the representative Linn Laupsa. Question 21, from the representative of Mr Reidar Sandal to the Minister for Labour and Administration, is answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered before question 29, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 23, from the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen to the Minister for Food and Trade, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 25, from the representative Kenneth Svendsen to the Minister for Transport, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 29, from the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is raised by the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. Question 33, from Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for the Environment, is being moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 4, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e590	Questions 1 and 2 will be addressed later in the Questionnaire after these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e604	This question has been raised. So we go to question 33.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e612	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In November 2001, Østfold sent ovine and caprine breeds and Eastfold Bondelag, supported by 16 rapporteurs in the county, an application for a breeding permit for the entire family group of wolves, subsidiary two adults and four puppies, located in Våler and Skiptvedt, but did not receive a reply from the Directorate for Nature Management. It is urgent to clarify because the spring is approaching with outdoors and grazing slips and some wolves leave their parents. Will the Council of State provide answers as to whether the application is granted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e621	For the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97, on the management of wild game, Stortinget wanted to ensure viable populations of bears, yews, wolves and boars, while minimising the damage caused by these wild game species to buff and tamrein industry. That's the policy I have to govern according to, according to the decision of the Storting. The management shall be differentiated in such a way as to give different emphasis to the protection of predatory game populations and to the consideration for grazing in different areas and for the different predatory game species. In the context of the examination of four Document No. Eight proposals in January 2001 empowered the Stortinget Government to establish an administrative zone for wolves. Such an administrative zone was established by the previous Government on 2 February 2001. The boundaries of the administrative zone have been established to minimise conflicts between the wolf and the buffalo. Ostfold County is entirely within the area where it is to be allowed to establish itself in family groups. It was determined by the previous government. Status Report per year 1 February 2001 from the Skandulv project shows that for the first time since 1991 there has been no marked increase in the wolf population in Scandinavia. Overall, 10–11 family groups and 4–5 reviral couples are registered in Norway and Sweden. In Norway, we have today, only one family group of wolves and two in the border counties are registered. The only heroic family group is the one that the representative Hedstrøm wants to start hunting for. This family group has since autumn lacked the manager male – the alpha male. The number of stationary wolves in Norway is per year. 1 February estimated at 10-14 animals plus approx. 16 animals in the border areas. This shows that the wolf population remains highly vulnerable and that any withdrawals both outside the management zone and in particular within established revir areas in the management area must be carefully assessed if I am to comply with the Stortinge regulations and requirements in relation to its decision here. I have been informed that the Directorate for Nature Management will deal with the relevant killing request in a short time. The Directorate has chosen to await the examination of the application by the two farmers’ organisations in Østfold for the Skandulv project’s report, so that the stock situation of the wolf was clearer. The Directorate has informed the applicant that this has been notified on several occasions and that the applicant has signalled an understanding of this assessment. It is the Directorate of Nature Management which, according to Section 12 of the Wildlife Act, is empowered to take decisions on the killing of harmful predators. Such killing may only be carried out if the survival of the population is not threatened. The Ministry of the Environment is the Board of Appeal for such decisions taken by the Directorate. However, I would like to assure the representative Hedstrom that I am constantly working to minimize the conflicts between predators and grazing interests within the framework that Stortinget has established.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e638	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that an oral enquiry was made from these stakeholders mentioned in the main question in December last year, and an oral feedback was received from the directorate that a more thorough inventory would be carried out. It's now done. You would do that when it was snow. It should therefore be possible to provide, at least in writing, a temporary response to those who are concerned with the issue in Eastfold at an earlier stage. But what we then experience when the census is made is that it is not done at the same time in Norway and Sweden. We know how mobile these wolves are, and there's very little distance to Sweden from Eastfold. Does not the Council of State consider that assumptions should be used to provide more objective opportunities for real censuses than to make this census at different times in Norway and Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e647	As I said, I have been informed that the Directorate for Nature Management has intended to deal with the relevant error request in a short time. And as an instance to decide on any claim, I don't think I'm going to elaborate it any further, at least don't come up with any detailed review and oral references regarding this to those who would then potentially appeal to the decision of the Directorate of Nature Management. The representative Hedstrøm brought up in relation to more objective censuses, and that there is a certain exchange between Sweden and Norway, I will take with me. I'm also going to go through the procedures we have for counting wolves. But it's a fact that the censuses we now have show that there's less wolf than what it was for a while back.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e654	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. What the main question contains, a general permission for killing, is far-reaching, we should all be able to express that, regardless of our position. However, the county and the environmental protection department in the district of Eastfold have also made recommendations in the case of felling, which are not so hard to do, but can be taken out of some animals. I also hope that it can be assessed when this application is to be processed and before giving feedback to the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e659	I'll take it with me, if the matter ends up on my table. First, the Directorate of Nature Management has to make its decision, and then we'll see if this case is brought before us. However, I have already noticed, the short time I have been in this job, that many of these cases of breeding/non-feeling authorisation are being filed with the Ministry of the Environment, and the Stortinget is also given the opportunity to see predatory policies together when we will then present a separate report of predators in 2003. Of course, it is difficult to manage a policy where there is to be a sustainable predatory strain, as the Stortinget has decided, while at the same time having active off-road industries in Norway. It creates a lot of complications. My task is to try to fix as much on this as possible. It is also important to take fear-reducing measures, because there is actually some fear out there in relation to the predators we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e667	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘There are a large number of licensees who do not receive NRK2 from the ground-based transmitters. This feels unfair, as everyone pays the same NRK license. Will the Council of State promote the further development of NRK2 ground-based transmitters or differentiate the NRK licence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e676	This is a question that has been raised several times in recent years. I have also observed that the representative Halvorsen has asked the same question before, and then to another Minister of Culture. I would first like to stress that I have a great understanding that it may seem unfair that viewers in some places in the country have to pay a full broadcasting fee, even if they cannot accept the broadcasts from NRK2. However, the starting point is that the broadcasting fee is not paid for a service but a fee that must be paid by all those who have television sets. The fee is payable regardless of which channels the viewer can take or wants to take. Even those who don't get NRK1, but have television, are forced to pay this fee. The expansion of the NRK2 has also taken place in accordance with the Stortinge’s recommendations that NRK2 should primarily be a satellite channel with a certain additional coverage from ground transmitters. The coverage shall be so close to 80 pst. as possible. The NRK states that the coverage is now 86 pst. The size assumed that full expansion was not defensive, cork for economic or frequency reasons. The reason was that a full expansion of ground transmitters would make it impossible to build a digital network for television. I would also like to remind you that a Document No. 8-proposals for differentiation of broadcasting fees were addressed by the Stortinget in 2000. The Storting – including the representative’s own batch – went against the submission, including: because a system of differentiated licences would be impossible to practise. Autumn 1999 handles the Stortinget message on digital television. The size then went in to facilitate the development of a digital ground. The switchover to digital television distribution will provide viewers with a better choice. The new digital ground net shall be nationwide. With such a network, NRK2 will ensure the same coverage as NRK1. I want to get closer to just these questions in the orientation of the NRK that I'm going to keep here in Stortinget tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e696	I thank you for your answer. The formula is that the person who has a TV set has to pay a license, and he does not have a right to compensation. But based on people's usual understanding and judgment, it feels unfair when you get a license bill from the NRK where someone gets more for the money than others. If the Council of State considers this to be discriminatory, will a differentiated licence be established at a later stage? And is it possible/desirable to control the NRK so that e.g. films and important sporting events are sent to NRK1, so that we avoid what happened during the Olympics, when 200,000 people were cheated for the ski shooters' interviews?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e705	– Or that part of those who watched Barne-TV were cheated on Barne-TV because a broadcaster sent sports instead. There are several groups here to consider. I simply think it's in retrospect to further develop this network now. Rather, we have to think ahead, and then the digital network is future. I would also like to remind the representative of what I said in the previous answer that this was processed after a Document No. Eight proposals in Stortinget did not go back long, in 2000, and then the representative’s own party went against such differentiation. I mean it would be to use resources in an unnecessary way to distribute it further. But betting on a digital ground, which gives them the same power to both NRK1 and NRK2, will be the future. As I said, I will come up with more information tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e714	I thank you for the additional reply. I very much agree that it is not reasonable to bet on the old, developed analogue network. But I have great faith in the digital ground net. The same is true of the Council of State. Can the government give some positive signals about when the digital network will be on the air, so that those waiting for NRK2 can at least get a date? It's not just NRK2 that has bad coverage. Important radio channels, such as: ‘Always news’, nor does it cover the whole country. Does the Council of State consider that the state must play an important role in the development of this country-wide digital network? And will she support the positive that I think is now happening between NRK and TV 2 in relation to the digital ground-based network?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e723	I don't think I'm going to give myself a very specific answer to these additional questions. As I have mentioned in both my previous answers, I will have an appointment tomorrow when I come up with this – I see the representative wants me to go further in the answer – and also with concrete proposals. To give a date today I don't really think the representative thinks I should – because it doesn't. Of course, this should also be handled in Stortinget – in turn and in order. To which the representative asked in his previous additional question: I don't think it's right for a government council to direct the NRK – which program to send in which channel. Of course you can, but it won't be right. But I have great faith in the future in relation to the digital network. And if you can get a connection from the Storting to build it out, all of these problems will be solved, and I might not answer the same question for the fifth or sixth time in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e733	‘A brave 16-year-old girl from Tynset has reported clearly criminal offences. She has until today been bullied with violence and verbal outbursts in school, without the intervention of adult society. After a summary investigation, and without contacting the girl, the police in Hedmark lodged the case. [[no 4457/0-10]] Do the state councils consider bullied young people today to be well-followed by the police, and are the penalties for the failure of adults to intervene well enough?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e740	Bullying can include both acts that are clearly criminal, and acts that are more subtlely offensive, but are not necessarily punishable. Not rarely do they have bullies, including behavioral problems that result in other crimes. Some are subject to criminal sanctions, and they therefore make other demands for follow-up by the adult community. We should not accept that children and young people are subjected to violence and harassment, nor when they are at or on their way to and from school. In such a complex problem area, it is necessary for the various agencies to cooperate, but it is necessary to clarify what is the responsibility of the police, and what is the responsibility of the school authorities and the child protection authorities, the parents, and the parents. Liability shall not be pulverised or pushed between different bodies. It is both important and necessary for the police to be quickly connected when the bullying becomes more serious. Today, all primary and secondary schools have their regular police contact, which can also be used when bullying is a serious problem. Concern talks, where children and young people and their parents cooperate, as well as active participation in cross-disciplinary work, play an important role in the fight against bullying. They must be used more. The Police Directorate will implement a problem-oriented prevention plan in 2002. The prevention of bullying shall be part of this plan. Bullying is caught by provisions scattered in different laws and regulations, including: the provisions of the penal code relating to bodily impairments and threats. Responsibility for failure to intervene in order to prevent or avert the acts is less precisely described. Absence of intervention may, in the circumstances, be affected as a contribution to the bullying, in particular if the person who fails to intervene has a special duty of care or supervision. Section 1-2 of the Training Act specifies that all those associated with the school should work to prevent students from getting hurt or being subjected to abusive words or actions, but without any omissions being punishable. If the person who fails to intervene, a public official, the provisions of the Penal Code on offences in the public service, §§ 324 and 325, may also be applicable. However, the Regulation on environmental health protection shall act as the «law on the working environment of children». It is governed by the Municipal Health Services Act, which states criminal liability for individuals in § 4a-11, relating to the requirements of the regulation. Bullying could be defined under the responsibility of the psychosocial work environment, which according to the regulation is the responsibility of the manager, i.e. principal, and owner, usually the municipality. I am not aware that any principals or municipalities are punished under this provision. Schools, child protection, health authorities and the police have a common responsibility. When adults fail to intervene in a bullying situation, it is therefore critical, but rarely punishable. We need to see the whole picture in all forms of reaction to children and young people who violate society's standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e753	I thank you for your answer. Last week we read in Nordlys that Ina had to be hospitalized for bullying in 13 years. We've read in the Newspaper about Lars in 23 years who's escaped the country. There are many such episodes, and I have the impression that such episodes are not worth mentioning in relation to the other debate on childhood and juvenile delinquency. My question to the Minister of Justice is not, in fact, what the legal situation is today, but whether the Minister of Justice will help clarify the rules of liability, so that we have a clear responsibility, and again so that we also have activity. Because I'm of the opinion that the lack of activity we see from the adult society is precisely because we have a vague legal state of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e762	Since the representative in his question says that the adult community has not intervened, I have obtained a report from the Hedmark police district showing that there has been extensive contact both with the PP service in the Tynset municipality and with a school psychologist. It is also clear with regard to the last question that when the case was handed down by the police after they had looked at it, it was sent to the girl's address at Tynset, and the police waited five days before publishing the relationship to the media. I think it's right to provide these practical information. But then to the representative's main concern. I share his main concern, that it is important to clarify the responsibility in what we can call administrative cooperation between different parts of the public. I also share his concern at this point, because I am familiar in various ways with both the bullying victims and their relatives. At least I'm going to do my part in cooperation with other government councils to make sure that both the question is worked on, that it is taken seriously, and that the various agencies that are responsible should bear it. But as it turned out from my answer, in that case, more people have to go together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e769	I thank you for your answer. I am so pleased that we agree on the situation description, but that does not help the children affected by this. This is the most serious form of childhood and juvenile delinquency, although we cannot impose punishment on many of them. You also create a breeding ground for another type of crime. The question now is whether the Minister of Justice will take an initiative to clarify, among other things. the criminal rules in relation to this. That's what I think we should be able to get an answer to, and also to the question raised in the wake of these bullyings, the question of, for example, the compensation scheme shall mean the possibility of rehabilitation in relation to the victims already present. Is the Minister of Justice going to do something about improving their compensation systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e778	I don't think we're going to try to compete for who's worst in cases of childhood and juvenile delinquency, but I think we're going to find out that no matter what happens, we're responding to the benefit of the person who's suffering from the trauma. I showed in my reply to a number of Norwegian lawmakers, both what I called the ‘children’s work environment law’, what is in the penal code, and also the training law. What's at the heart of this is that if you're going to get a reaction where you're not looking away, you're going to have to see, see together and work together. On the question of whether I want to help those who see, to see with others, the answer is that I want to, because I am very concerned about this, which we can call administrative cooperation. Unfortunately, this is often the case – without me going into this matter, but I know cases – that someone talks about bullying long afterwards because it was too difficult to talk about it while it was going on. It's also true that you don't always see it. But when you see – and see clearly – you have a duty to intervene. Then there must also be cooperation, and I have shown that the police have got as part of their responsibility to respond, so that we will take these questions seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e788	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘We are now receiving reports from all over the country that measures for the implementation of the psychiatry plan are being delayed or that savings need to be made in established measures. The Minister of Health said in the Newspaper on February 16th. health establishments shall document, by 1 March of this year, the use of earmarked funds and the offers they can make to the inhabitants of their regions. How will the Council of State inform the Government of the review it is now carrying out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e797	The objectives of the Roadmap for Mental Health are set, as agreed by a unanimous decision-making process. The level of operation needs to be strengthened, and it needs to be invested, and we already see clear trends in many people getting a better offer than before. But we also see failures in many joints and unacceptable examples of people with mental disorders not getting the help they need. More and more people are seeking help, but more and more people are getting help. The average duration of adult waiting is reduced. Also more children get help, but here we still haven't been able to reduce the waiting times. We are therefore in the process of developing a strengthened and comprehensive strategy for raising the mental health of children and young people, as well as municipalities and health businesses have been asked to give priority to this group. In a situation where there is a significant increase in mental health resources, it is also important that the service has a strong focus on how resources are used. With such a step-up and simultaneous change of ownership of the specialist health service, it will require adjustments related to conversion and productivity. The transfer of the specialist health service to state ownership will in itself create uncertainty for the overall budgetary situation. The size is known that the Government will review the overall operating economy of the specialist health service in relation to the revised national budget. Through the governance document of regional health companies, I have instructed them to give priority to the implementation of the escalation plan in general, and a focus on mental health protection for children and young people in particular. Regional health enterprises shall follow up the work undertaken by the counties. Means administered as part of the plan shall be used in their entirety for mental health protection. The earmarked grants shall be in addition to the actions of health establishments and self-financing of mental health, and shall not replace them. Similarly, the means of escalation to municipalities are earmarked for mental health. These clear leaders are followed up. The Ministry has sent a letter to regional health companies asking for feedback on the budgetary situation for mental health, while stressing the importance of monitoring the objectives and frameworks adopted. The letter is primarily part of our follow-up to regional enterprises. The reports we receive will be followed up by the clear political leaders given. With regard to the detailed feedback to the Stortinget, I would like to explain this in the context of the presentation of budgetary proposals, initially in the context of the review of the hospital economy, as announced in the revised 2002 national budget. Work has started on a review and updating of the escalation plan. I will return to that in the 2003 state budget. In addition, I would like to ask the Swedish Government to give a health policy statement during the spring, where I, among other things, am. will review the follow-up to the hospital reform and the Roadmap for mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e810	I thank you for the answer, and I am pleased that the Minister of Health said so clearly that he will come back to the Storting and inform us about what is happening. What's at the root of this question is that we in the media have recently been given quite a number of signs that the situation around in psychiatry is not as good as one would wish. Today’s daily newspaper says that it is now implementing what the newspaper chooses to call ‘secret cut’, and it mentions examples of one health business after another that is now cutting heavily in the psychiatry, according to the Dagbladet. What matters to me is that the psychiatry reform should lead to a better psychiatry around, not a worse offer for the patients. My follow-up question must then be: Will the Minister of Health really address the enterprises and ensure that the psychiatry plan is implemented after the intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e819	The short answer to that question is yes. I've already grasped it. I have seen with the same alarm as the representative Hanssen on the announcements that mental health care is planned in health companies, and this is the reason why I have asked for a statement from all five regional health companies to that effect. In the follow-up to this round, we will follow up on the leadership we have already given that the means of escalation should lead to a stepping up of the service offer, and should come to the top of the activity you already have, and not to replace the activity you already have. It will be very careful for this Minister of Health to use the tools needed to get this through.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e826	Thank you again for your answer. According to the daily newspaper today, it is an example that the board of directors of the health company Ullevål Hospital has already cut 10 and treated yesterday evening proposals for a further 7 million cuts in the psychiatry offer related to this health company. Do I understand the Minister of Health right if I now conclude that according to what the Minister of Health is now saying, and if this information is actually correct, will the Minister of Health intervene and make sure to reverse this type of cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e835	The starting point is clear: the escalating plan shall be followed. The means of stepping up mental health should lead to a real escalation, and that means cutting at the bottom of the offer you already have is not accepted. All regional undertakings must explain how they meet this field in the demanding budgetary situation they have. I cannot relate to information given to Dagbladet. I will deal with the statement I get from Health East in this case, and follow up the guidance signals that I have expressed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e846	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘What does the Council of State think price developments in electricity will be in the coming years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e853	The price of electricity in Norway will at all times reflect the production and demand situation in the Nordic electricity market. The price of power is constantly adjusted to balance production and consumption. Changes in production and demand are therefore crucial for price developments. A number of factors are relevant to the development of production and consumption. From year to year, there will be significant variations due to variations in rainfall and temperature. Over time, developments will depend more on the underlying developments in production and demand conditions. In recent years there has been little increase in electricity supply capacity. This applies both in the power plants and in the transmission system. At the same time as there has been little growth in production capacity, the growth in the use of electricity has continued to be significant. There has been a similar development in our neighbouring countries. The last years of the 1990s and the year 2000 were consistently high levels of rainfall, with a high demand for electricity and therefore a high level of electricity supply. This gave relatively low prices in these years. In 2001, the rainfall situation was more normal and the price was clearly higher than in previous years. In the coming years, there is reason to believe that the power balance will be tighter than today. The development time in the power sector is long and the projects that will be completed in the coming years will provide little increase in production capacity. At the same time, it has to be expected that the growth of electricity consumption will continue despite a strong commitment to energy saving measures. However, even if the power balance is tightened further, there is still reason to expect low prices this year with a lot of rainfall. In the longer term, price developments will include: Depending on how well we succeed in energy and production conversion policies and in developing gas power plants with CO2 landfills. The aim of this policy is to reconcile the desire for relatively reasonable energy with high ambitions in environmental policy. Both in St.meld. No 29 for 1998-1999, on energy policy, and in St.meld. No 37 for 2000–2001, on the hydropower and power balance, a broad discussion of factors that will be relevant to price developments is also given. In addition, in NOU 1998:11, Energy and Power Balance vs. 2020, different scenarios for the evolution of power prices have been presented. As the representative of Klungland will be familiar with, I have also given an assessment of the power balance in a response to the Stortinge in connection with the consideration by the Energy and Environment Committee of the proposal on Snow White.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e870	I thank you for your answer. As I understand it, he believes that there will be a tight market, and that it will lead to increased prices in the future. I refer you to the Secretariat for Cooperation between the system operators in the Nordic electricity companies, NOREL, who have created a new power forecast for the Nordic region. It shows that a dry year such as 1996 can lead to large zonal power disconnects in Norway. But before you get that far, a person will experience a strong growth in electricity prices. We'll get strange and higher energy prices here in the country, says NOREL. Can the Council of State confirm or cancel this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e877	The price of electricity in Norway will depend, as I said, on the price of the Nordic power market, in which Norway participates. But in this power market, very much energy is supplied by hydropower. And as I said in my answer, in the years to come, there will still be a reasonable price for electricity in rainy years. But dry years will be a significant challenge, and it will be reflected in the price. Therefore, it is important that we start increasing electricity production through different measures. Einøk is an important part of this, as are renewable sources of bioenergy and wind – both these conditions are the Enova that takes care of – upgrading electricity plants, better wiring in the energy market, also towards the Nordic market, and finally CO2-free gas power plants. All of this will be necessary to improve the power balance and thus ensure reasonable prices of electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e882	The Council of State points out in a letter to the Committee that there is currently a deficit of 6-7 TWh and that marginal production is now coal-fired. At the same time, he has shown that he has plans to develop new energy sources from a 10-year perspective, 7 TWh, and then he has not taken into account the growth it will be in consumption. In the daily newspaper of 19 February, a power crisis is predicted in a few years' time, and in this regard the Council of State says: ‘We aim to become a net exporter by force.’ My question to the Council of State will then be: What action will he take to achieve that goal of becoming a net exporter by force, as we now import 7 TWh in a normal year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e894	It is true that in a normal year there is a power balance deficit of 6-7 TWh. I would like to remind you that, through that effort, it is investing in new renewable energy sources, among other things. bioenergy and wind energy, already 7 TWh, which shall be the target by 2010. There's a bet about which there's a great deal of excitement in Stortinget, and that will make us an important contribution to improving the power balance. In my previous answer, I also calculated four other measures that, together with the investment in new renewable energy sources, will ensure a better power balance. I believe that the time we have at our disposal has given us a necessary wiring out towards a Nordic power market – a European one too – will be sufficient to develop CO2-free gas power plants, which will make a significant net contribution to improving the power balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e904	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Home law has been an important instrument in the Norwegian concession laws. Does the Government believe that the right of return remains an important instrument for the State and the community to control the hydropower resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e913	The management of our hydropower resources is based on a comprehensive law dating back to 1906. In order to achieve control and control of hydropower resources, authorities may use a bundle of instruments, such as concessions, pre-purchasing rights and repatriation, on the basis of this legislation. In recent years, the authorities have been criticised by various teams for their practice of the rules of withdrawal. For many years, public power companies have been granted time-limited concessions without repatriation conditions, while private parties have been granted temporary concessions of up to 60 years with repatriation to the State at the end of the concession period. Several municipalities and county councils that own power plants believe that such a practice leads to a shortage of stakeholders entering the market in the sale of power plants and may affect the pricing of power plants in the market. The government last set up an inter-ministerial working group which is now in the process of investigating the withdrawal scheme in relation to the impact on resource use and competition in the power sector, long-term national freedom of action and public income considerations. Its purpose is to provide a basis for assessing the consequences of harmonising the rules on withdrawal between public and private actors and to provide a basis for decision-making on how any harmonisation should be carried out. Last week, the Norwegian authorities of the ESA sent a so-called reasonable opinion, stating that the monitoring body considers that our practice of the rules on withdrawals is not in accordance with the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the right of establishment and the free movement of capital. This opinion is now to be thoroughly reviewed before we report back the Norwegian position to ESA. As the representative Brustad also writes in his question, the right of return has been an important instrument in our concession law. I consider it a priority task to seek solutions that can take care of the basic principles on which the right of return is based, even in the future. It is therefore important that we now take the time to go through all aspects of the fall-back scheme, before we conclude what is going to happen. From the Government side, this is a task that will be given high priority in the future. The position of the Government will be followed up in a proposition to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e928	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I probably didn't feel that the Council of State was quite clear in its response to me, and I hope it doesn't mean that the Government is on the wane in terms of the fight for the right of repatriation. I don't think I need to draw any more arguments as to why it's important. We've seen – in this case too, I would say – a little different signals from the Christian People's Party and from the Right, and I hope it's not that in this case as well, as we've seen some examples of in other matters, the Right Party is having to decide the policy, while the Christian People's Party is closely involved with the Prime Minister. I repeat my question: What is the Government's primary position in relation to the right of return?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e935	I have to repeat my answer, where I said that what I want is to seek solutions that can take care of the basic principles on which the right of return is based. I also said that we are now going through this in a separate interministerial working group. I do not conceal that these are important issues that require considerable work and insight, so that we are able to identify all aspects of this matter, both in relation to the criticism we face among county and municipal power plant owners, and also in relation to the «reasoned opinion» that ESA has sent us. The aim of this review is to assess the consequences of harmonising the rules on withdrawal. That is what at least in relation to ESA has caused problems, namely that we treat public power plants differently from private power plants. My starting point, then, is that the principles and important effects of the right of return should be continued through a possible new regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e942	I thank you again for your answer and I am glad that the Council of State is looking for solutions that will provide ‘basic principles’, as the Council of State puts it. Still, I'm a little insecure, because what I think I hear the council says here, is that he's thinking towards a compromise. Is that what is happening in relation to ESA? And in that case, can the Council of State indicate in what direction the Government is now assessing any compromises in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e947	Out of respect for the thorough review that the Government has now initiated through an inter-ministerial working group, I will not be shooting a solution here. I have indicated a direction for the work and hope that we will find good solutions that will also take care of what I understand the representative Brustad and I agree, namely that the right to return has been important for the management of our hydropower resources and will also be important in the future. And then we need to find a solution to the criticism and responses that have come, both from national power plant owners and also from outside, through the EEA Agreement in the ‘reasoned opinion’ presented by ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e956	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children and Family the following questions: ‘After the current legislation on parental leave in relation to childbirth, father does not receive the four weeks reserved for him unless his mother has had more than 50 pst. position. This applies even if my father has had a full-time job for many years and has taken care of the family. Does the Council of State think it is fair for fathers to be cut off from full paper school because mother has not been in full-time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e965	The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs is currently reviewing the birth grant scheme with a view to simplification. In this context, we also look at the rights of fathers. The regulation is complicated by the fact that there are separate provisions for the spring quota and that there is a distinction between birth money withdrawals to be considered as withdrawals from the spring quota and withdrawals not considered as a spring quota. That's why I want to work to simplify and improve the whole code. The representative is entitled not to take out the four-week parental allowance if the mother has not worked at least half of her post before birth – this is because the father’s birth allowance under the current system when the parental allowance is taken out is calculated in relation to the mother’s prenatal position. That father's birth money is calculated this way, in my view, is a poor solution. In the context of the examination of the proposal on the independent right to income from birth allowances for fathers – I refer to the Innst. O. No 97 for 1999-2000 – the members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left proposed that all fathers taking out the feather quota should receive birth grants in relation to their own job fractions, because this would make it a more real alternative for fathers to use the feather quota. At that time, the Progress Party did not support this, but instead proposed the introduction of an alternative birth grant scheme, all of which would be paid the same sum, irrespective of income ratios. Such a solution would, in any case in my opinion, lead to a significant loss of income for many families and make it less attractive for fathers to be at home with the children. It is a goal for me that men should take a greater part in caring for their children while they are young. This is important not only from a gender perspective but also in the interests of children. It is apparent from the political platform of the Cooperative Government that the Government will provide and increase the autonomy and scope of the government’s right to self-sufficiency in the paper industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e974	It is true that the Progress Party initially has a slightly different view of how support for families with children should be distributed. But we also accept that we are within today's system, and within the framework of this system, I am pleased to hear that the Council of State will look at alternative solutions. Gender equality is not only about the situation of women but also about the situation and gender equality of men. It is therefore clear that there has been a discrimination between fathers, depending on the job situation of Mother. But it is also the case that these men have contributed to the community by paying taxes, and it should be a matter of course that they were given the opportunity to get something back in the form of paper commission. My question to the Council of State is: What time perspective can be expected of the things it is now working on in the ministry? And when will you be able to count on concrete things for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e983	I fully agree that equality should also apply to men. We have an area here that we have to look at and do something about. As Minister of Children, I would like to say that to me it also applies to the children and the opportunities for them to be with their fathers for a certain period of time. In the case of the birth grant scheme itself, it is under examination in the department. We expect that we can be done with proposals related to this during the autumn. When the Government is going to implement this as a proposal with an economy related to it, we have to go into the budget debate. In the Sem statement we have said that we will first have full babysitting, then we will continue cash support, and then the paper commission will finally – if I remember the right order now. But at least we're going to be able to finalise what proposals we're going to go for, and how this is to be organised – it's about both extended paper issue and self-benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e993	It seems that the Council of State and I very much agree that it is important that fathers get close contact with their children at an early stage. We see too many examples of what poor contact with both parents can lead to in today's society. In the process of involving fathers in the growth of children, paper issue can be one of the measures that contribute. It is my hope that this work will be given priority by the Council of State, and I thank you, as I said, for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e998	I will do my job to get this case completed as soon as possible. I also have a good deal of enquiries about this from different families, and there is an expressed need from some users in this country to get this sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1007	This question, from the representative of Lena Jensen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1010	‘There are reports of twice as many sexual abuses against children in North Norway as in Oslo and there are several convictions. This may be because more people report moral crimes in the north, or children in Northern Norway are more likely to be sexually assaulted than children in other parts of the country. What will the Council of State do to provide the background for these figures and to reduce the number of abuses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1017	As with other types of crime, there is reason to believe that the darkness rates are also large for child abuse. We have no clues to assume that children in North Norway are more at risk of sexual assault than children in other parts of the country. However, we know that there has been a particular focus in North Norway on sexual abuse against children in recent years. The police and prosecution authorities have inter alia: the media used to disseminate information on this type of crime. There are different ways of investigating the extent of real crime, so that darkness can also be estimated. A widely used method is to ask a representative sample of the population if they have been subjected to various types of crime. In my opinion, it would neither be advisable nor ethically sound to ask the victims of this type of crime, especially children. However, in recent decades different attempts have been made, including in Norway, to estimate the proportion of a child population that has been exposed to various types of sexual abuse. Estimates range from an estimated 20 children to every 5 children. But we don't know if children in North Norway are more vulnerable than elsewhere in the country. Criminal statistics also show that, when we look at the figures for moral crime as a whole, 1000 inhabitants, do not point out North Norway in particular. The numbers around the mean. In the case of specific figures dealing with young people under 10, 14 or 16 years of age, the notification figures are small. Randomity and arbitrary regional differences can therefore be immeasurably influenced by the number of registered offences from place to place. Issues relating to sexual abuse of children require special competence and are a high priority in the police. In the last decade, Kripos has developed acute competences in the investigation and monitoring of sexual abuse against children, as well as child questioning. Kripos shall assist other police districts in dealing with this type of issue and shall work together with the Police College to enhance the competence of police districts in the investigation and treatment of sexual offences. A growing message of strengthening the investigation of sexual abuse against children has been submitted to the Stortinget, which has given broad support to the Government's proposals. By other measures, I can mention that the building of competences on sexual abuse at the Police College should be strengthened. In addition, the Police College conducts both regional and central training courses for police officers in the field of sexual abuse. In the context of the implementation of the police reform, arrangements are also put in place to ensure that all police districts of the country have personnel with special competence for sexual abuse against children. In doing so, police districts shall also work to be active in multidisciplinary cooperation. I can also inform you that the State Health Authority has the primary responsibility for a project to expand the apparatus and the competence of the relevant departments in order to better deal with criminal offences involving children. In any case, I will closely monitor the functioning of the various measures and follow up on the further development of the work against sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1038	I would first of all like to thank you for your answer. The most important thing is to ensure that children are safe and well-growthed. Every three days, one case of sexual assault against children is reported in North Norway. In 2001 there were 120 reviews in North Norway versus 48 in Oslo. This is alarming and serious numbers for me. As the Council of State answered me, there are no points of reference to assume that children in North Norway are more at risk of sexual assault than children in other parts of the country. And you don't know if children in North Norway are more vulnerable. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take the initiative in a research project to shed light on the figures and situation in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1047	As I explained in my first answer, it's not easy to go into figuring out what's the statistical right thing to do. What is crucial is that it responds and that there is competence to respond. I have taken the initiative that this competence should exist throughout the country, as I explained in my main response. I myself believe that this could be an explanation, which the representative has also pointed out, that there has been attention. I think attention and public debate in itself is a good thing. So it can be thought, and there's pure speculation on my part, that there's a difference between the parts of the country where there are scattered communities – in addition to, of course, urban communities – and a big city, but this doesn't have to be a sufficient justification. I think it is crucial that these matters are taken seriously from the first moment, and that those who are going to work on it have the competence to listen in the right way, to see and understand correctly, and to follow up. It is this competence that needs to be strengthened. I have been concerned about that for a longer time, and of course I will follow closely with that. What happens then in North Norway gives an incentive to see in particular what experience is now gained in the development of police skills in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1056	I would like to thank you for your answer. An effort to increase the competence of police and child workers is, as the Council of State says, extremely important. The Council of State said to me in its first response that according to the police reform, police districts should be active in multidisciplinary cooperation. But it happens, as I see it, after the police district's own initiative for cooperation. I would then like to ask a question to the Council of State: we have an apparatus like Ecocrim, where there is an obliging cooperation to resolve economic issues. Will the Council of State take the initiative to set up regional entities to assist the police in resolving child-trafficking issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1063	This has previously been launched as a thought, but has not been upset either by me or in Stortinget, to say it like this. But what has come to light is that one should strengthen the competence of larger police districts in order to follow up, including in a cross-country context. Of course, I'll keep myself informed if that happens. This has been one of the reasons why these larger police districts have been given. I fully agree with the representative that it is absolutely essential that this be done, let us say, administrative cooperation. Here, too, there is a positive thing, as I said in the first answer, that the State Health Authority should be responsible for a project to expand an action apparatus and the competence of the relevant departments. It's a project that I think will be useful, and of course I'll keep myself informed about the development of the project. I share the representative's concern about this, and I share the representative's view that there must be a culture of administrative cooperation, which is natural, throughout the country. When I saw North Norway in particular, since there has been attention there, it may be of particular interest to me to keep me informed about how administrative cooperation is developing in that part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1073	I will be allowed to address the following questions to the Minister for Education and Research: ‘More students, their parents and relatives experience abstinence from the school system in relation to the possibilities of obtaining complaints related to bullying, education and school issues in general, especially when this is related to issues affecting individual teachers or individual school and school management. Will the Council of State take the initiative to have a school representative system tested as a non-hidden review body and contact body for pupils and their parents when they do not reach school through regular channels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1082	A school ombudsman system has already been set up in a few counties. In the county of Nordland, there has been a student representative since 1997. It has been informed that the pupil ombudsman is the county head of secondary education and that it carries out its work on a free and independent basis. Akershus has established student representations from 1 January of this year, and Nord-Trøndelag will probably receive representations from 1 August of this year. In addition, Telemark is working on the matter. I see it as positive that students are set up in high school, and believe that this can also be an idea for municipalities to try out for primary school. That a little different models are being tried out, I think it is exciting, but I think it must be up to the municipalities and county councils themselves to decide whether such schemes should be put in place. I have not assessed any representative at state level. In my opinion, the appeals and appeal bodies are already numerous. To the extent that the public feels debilitated, this can, for example, be due to: lack of information on the means of redress available. Our education administration is complicated. Therefore, I do not believe that any government representative would be appropriate for them in total approx. Four thousand schools we have in the country. But, as I said, I welcome the local ombudsmen that are being set up, and would like to gain experience from the ombudsman arrangements that have been put in place, to see if we can spread these experiences to other municipalities and county municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1093	I have recorded that the state council has taken initiatives, partly strongly, to focus on bullying in school, on school management and for better school management, on quality in the school overall. Today, we see such problems occurring internally in a school community that no one grasps and no one reaches, because it is school leaders who do not work. There are difficult personnel issues that no one is addressing, because there is a lack of competence to address them. This affects the school environment as a whole, and it affects the learning environment as a whole. Will this not then be a natural matter to be seen in the context of the work that the Council of State has now undertaken, both to improve the quality of the school as a whole and to ensure legal certainty for each student and the parents of each student in a better way than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1100	Yes, I agree. We are currently carrying out a review of the entire State Education Administration, under which, in particular, the supervisory task is very important, one should see how it should be organised in the future. This with school representatives can be a supplement or something that we can see in the context of current schemes. I agree that we should now take a positive view of the measures being taken around here. We should gain experience, we should disseminate them, and we should see whether it would also be appropriate to try to stimulate the implementation of the schemes on a wider scale. I fully agree with the representative here, we cannot sit still and watch that such problems are not addressed. The truth is, school has a duty to address such problems. But when that does not happen, we need to look at the competence, we need to look at leadership, what programmes and relief measures we can take in schools, and, of course, the supervisory and ombudsman tasks. I had a meeting the other day with one of these representatives who spoke the students' case in their state, and that was very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1109	I use the opportunity to thank the Council of State for a positive response. I understood that the Council of State will ensure that this issue becomes one of the many issues that are now being followed up and assessed, as a constructive and positive action in further work on improving the quality of school and improving it for individual students, so that both their views and complaints about what obviously does not work in many respects, based on misunderstood solidarity with colleagues and the lack of follow-up from school management.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1114	I can promise that I will acquire knowledge of the experience that has been gained in Northern Ireland, gradually in Akershus, Nord-Trøndelag and perhaps Telemark, and see what it can have of significance and effect and possible consequences for the rest of School-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1122	I will ask the Minister for Education the following question: «An additional training course is currently provided on the basis of 15 basic courses and a total of 110 upper secondary courses based on one or more of the basic courses. The letter-making system covers 250 different professions starting from one of the UK I courses. How will the Government ensure that the professional offer, which is currently built through the county municipalities, is secured by a possible transfer of responsibility to individual municipalities within one region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1131	In principle, I would say that this is a somewhat hypothetical problem. There are currently no applications for testing in this area. I am well aware that some municipalities are interested in taking responsibility for higher education, and if one or more municipalities are applying for such an experiment, it is of course necessary to evaluate and process the application. Among the issues to be considered in this case are the possibilities for the applicant to manage the diversity of vocational training that the questioner has been concerned about. What the answer to any application will be, of course I cannot know now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1136	I would like to comment on that. When I ask this question, it is because, in December last year, the municipal minister met with the county rapporteurs, who gave clear signals about possible pilot schemes for the transfer of, among other things. higher education from counties to metropolitan and metropolitan areas. That's the background for me asking this question. If it's the case that the government doesn't have any thoughts about doing this, then I'm being reassured.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1143	We have it this way in Norway that it is the municipalities that are responsible for primary school, and then it is the county municipalities that are responsible for secondary education. We don't have any immediate plans to do anything about it. On the other hand, there are almost some rumors, I get to say – I can read it in the media – that some municipalities are considering applying to carry out attempts to take over the responsibility. As I said, there are no such applications now, and it is natural to treat them only if and when they are available. From my point of view, it will be the educational and educational policy perspective that is important. Are we getting better education, or are we getting worse education? Are we getting a better or a worse school offer? That must be what is central to the Minister of Education. In addition, we know that there are also other policy issues, related to the municipal structure, etc., on which this room is concerned. But from my point of view, it is the educational profession that is important, and that is what the questioner is concerned about. The variety is one of the things that could then have to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1150	I am reassured by the Minister of Education and her answers. Because if there's something that's been a success, it's just higher education, reform 94. The county councils have also built up a very good and competent apparatus in terms of both schooling and vocational training in relation to enterprises, and will have even greater tasks, I think, in relation to adult education and the reform of skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1155	As far as reform 94 is concerned, it is clear that much is positive, but we also have a good deal of challenges and some problems. I am personally quite excited to see what happens now when this becomes a relatively more significant area of activity for the county municipalities, and whether it can lead to even greater attention to this field – which I would think was very good. Then I also have to add that in the case of initiatives that come from the communities to carry out trials, I have a generally positive basic attitude, because I think we should listen to local democracy and the wishes that are there. But as I said, there are no applications in this area. They will be treated seriously when they arrive, and then it will be the educational and educational policy that will be my focus. I want to study whether this can be an attempt to see if it can lead to better school policy and school provision or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1172	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1178	«In Altaposten, 11 February d.o.b. It is clear that teachers in school face major problems in the educational situation. In a couple of years, sick leave is fivefold, and young teachers who enter the profession of idealism and progress feel a great abstinence. Teachers face considerable social problems at school, and the learning environment is getting poor. What action does the Council of State consider to take to improve the educational situation of both teachers and students in such difficult cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1185	We are recently reminded, as the questioner is concerned, both through the media and research, that we have disciplinary problems and bullying in Norwegian school. The number of students involved in problem behaviour has not increased in recent years, but the disciplinary problems have become more serious, and they are serious for those affected, however. This affects the working environment and performance of pupils and teachers alike. All those working in school, children, young people and adults are entitled to a safe and good working and learning environment, and this is also a prerequisite for a good level of knowledge. Work against problem behaviour such as bullying and violence is a priority area of the Government. School must have zero tolerance for such behaviour. The absence of threatening behaviour is a prerequisite for creating a safe and good learning environment. Work on bullying and violence requires continuous and long-term efforts in close cooperation with other sectors. All in school, teachers, students and parents, must agree on what is acceptable behaviour, and clear rules and procedures should be established to follow up breaches of the legislation. All offences must be reported, and this must be a responsibility for the management of the school. I want to strengthen the work to improve the learning and growth environment. The learning centre is developing guidance on the development of social skills. In addition to this, the two complementary guides for school work on pupils with major behavioural problems are developed. One is intended for use by the municipalities and school owners, the other for use by the schools, the principal and the teachers. The supervisors will stress the responsibilities of municipalities and schools, and they have a large space for action and a broad action register to play on in relation to behavioural problems. There are also many good examples of how to solve the problems and prevent new ones, and these are very important to make known. On the part of the state, we also grant substantial funds for anti- bullying programmes. One example is the so-called Olweus programme, which is offered in nine counties in 2002, and in several counties in 2001 and 2003. Many schools have already achieved good results, and these examples are important to make visible so that others can learn. I also remember that the Training Act gives the opportunity, as a last resort, to move the bullies out of school. Finally, I mention that the Storting in the request decision, decision No. 335 of 18 May 2000, the government asked the government to make proposals to legislate on working environment regulations for pupils and students. During the current session, I will present a proposal for changes to the Training Act as regards the school environment of the students. The aim of the amendment is to strengthen the protection of pupils in the physical and psychosocial school environment, and to strengthen the school's systematic work on this. The regulation of the working environment of teachers, as for other workers, is provided for in the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1205	I thank you for the answer, but I want to follow up with a question: How does the Council of State see that it is possible to ensure that what is being done, and the ideas that are being discussed in big business and government, are followed up in the municipalities? In addition, I would like to ask: how does the Council of State think that the school owners can and must be involved in the fight against bullying in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1212	I think what the representative here is about is how we can ensure that we get results from our schoolwork. We can then be concerned with professional results, but here we are also talking about the prerequisites for getting good professional results, namely a good learning environment. What we need to get more of in Norwegian school is quality assessment, quality assurance, quality control and transparency about this. About half of the country’s schools now carry out school-based assessments, and in almost all cases they also include the learning environment and the type of problems the queryer is concerned with. I believe that we need to do this in all the municipalities, and it is possible that we should also do something at national level to ensure that we not only implement simple and more stunted, ad hoc programmes, but that we do something that has a lasting effect. It is interesting, however, that of very many measures developed internationally, the programmes developed in Norway are, very high, in the sense that they have documented their impact. We have to explain to the schools and municipalities that these programmes need to be used. And so the state supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1221	I just want to thank you for the answer, I feel very calm with the answer that the Council of State here gives. Behavioural problems and psychosocial problems in school may be a major factor in making the educational situation worse and not doing what you might want to do at school. I'm very happy that the council here outlines what you see in mind when you talk about a law that takes into account the working environment and the environment of school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1228	From the so-called PISA study, we can actually read that teachers in Norway are among the most difficult teachers in the world, partly because there is a wide spread of students, with so-called strong and weak pupils, and partly because of disciplinary problems. It's very challenging, and if we're going to be able to realize the vision of adapted training, it's important that we get involved in this. I want to add one thing: I also think it is important to make the many good examples of so-called alternative offers that are available around in School-Norway, where students who during periods may or may not be so busy at school, and who may become so-called problem students, can get other and exciting offers in part of the time, and thus remedy a situation for themselves, for their fellow students and for the teachers. There's a lot of exciting happening here that both parents, students and teachers are very happy with, and that we haven't brought out enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1238	I would like to ask the following questions: «A look up in the Evening Post, February 18th, d.o.b. indicates that more than 250 teaching positions in Oslo will be removed in the next school year. There will be fewer hours of education, which will affect students who need special arrangements. SV has previously made proposals to legislate for a minimum number of hours for each school. Will the Council consider proposing to lay down minimum standards as a minimum number of hours in order to ensure the highest possible level of provision and at the same time reduce the number of hours devoted to the provision of training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1247	Now we have been in the spontaneous question hour about the situation in Oslo and about lessons in Oslo, which is very high above other municipalities. The representative Reikvam picks up a slightly different question here. All students are currently entitled to training which has a sound minimum standard in accordance with the law and the curriculum. When I'm skeptical of such further legislation that SV has previously suggested, namely to set a learning metal in addition to the teaching hour – if I understand correctly – it's because it can bind up resource use in such a way that resources are not used as efficiently as possible according to the needs of each school. I am also concerned that the legislation will be reviewed, among others. with a view to amending any rules preventing the most efficient use of resources. And when I talk about efficiency here, it's not just cost-effectiveness, it's purpose efficiency. The school owners are responsible for the follow-up of the legislation and must take decisions accordingly. School owners also need to provide internal communication and reporting procedures for compliance. However, I am also committed to strengthening the supervisory side so that adequate guidance can be provided and any non-compliance can be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1260	I thank you for the answer, which maybe I didn't get much wiser from. But I'm recording that the Council of State probably doesn't think in the direction of what SV thinks, which is a minimum of ten metals in the form of minimum standards. In the spontaneous question hour earlier today, the Council of State said that my description of the situation in Oslo was dramatic. She also said that Oslo has an hour that lies sky high above the rest of the country. I understand that Oslo must have a slightly higher ramti metal, because they have some problems that you probably don't have in the rest of the country. But if that's what the Council of State says, that Oslo's hours are sky high above the rest of the country, then the situation must be quite dramatic around the rest of Norway. That means that they probably have a low-grade ram ti metal, they take a relatively few hours, and this makes there few possibilities for group division. If we look at it historically, we know that the hours have gone down -- we know that. It means, as I said, that there are fewer possibilities for sharing groups, for individual follow-up of each student, etc. And when parents in Oslo start to react to the low hour, and say that you don't get a teaching system like you really require, the situation has to be quite dramatic in the rest of the country. Does the Council of State realize that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1269	I have full respect for the intentions of the representative here, but I am afraid of measures that overrule the municipal sector, if we first say that the municipal sector should be responsible for the school. I have a feeling — and this applies not only to the school sector, but generally to the public sector — that what we call minimum standards tends to become maximum standards, and vice versa. Maximum may be minimum if it is felt appropriate and convenient. In Oslo, then, the teaching hour is 19 hours above the norm. It is higher than in all other municipalities in Norway, and overall it will constitute an additional school year. That's what's been prioritized in Oslo. The teacher's density in Oslo is above that of the other big cities. So regardless of whether the League of Education should be right in its claims about what must be done by narrowing down, i.e. a narrowing of the size of a couple of hundred teachers, Oslo will still be very high in relation to the rest of Norway and the other big cities. But that means, as the representative Reikvam had it, that the hours are lower in the country. That is one of the reasons why we introduced three additional Norwegian hours last harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1276	In Oslo, it is not the Education Association, but the parents who are now responding, and that is important. At least they don't have their sick mother to pray for, so we have to take this seriously. The fact that the parents are engaged, the fact that they describe a situation that is now intolerable, I think we, as government politicians, have to take us in and do something with it. The serious thing about this cut in the frame hour, which we see not only in Oslo, but also in the rest of the country, is that as they cut the frame hour as a result of having little money, we see that the number of hours going to special education is increasing. And there's a connection between the cut in the frame-hour and the increase in special education -- that's those who, according to the individual decision-making provisions, get increased hours. It's a bad spiral that we somehow have to do something with. If we don't, this will go over the stick and the stone. The only way to do something about this is what we're proposing, to set minimum standards and say that there should be an hour, below that we don't accept. And then the municipalities get to move higher than that if they want. We define the framework for all other activities. For example, we have a class size frame, and then we also have to be able to set some minimum standards for the number of hours!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1286	That parents get engaged, I think it's very positive, just so it's said. But then to all the good intentions that the representative Rikham is having, which is basically about adapted training for everyone – a training that is good and that follows everyone's skills and talents. In principle he says that the only way to go is the way SV has suggested. I do not entirely agree with that. I believe that in principle there are two ways to go. One is the route of imposition, that the state says it should be. The second is that we give municipalities and schools greater access to flexibility, greater space for action, so that they can adapt resource use in a flexible way. The use of teaching resources is seen to be different in schools. Good school leaders are creative and good at using teaching resources. Many schools apply for trials, so that they can make good use of them. If you are not the same manager or do not apply for trials and flexibility, it may also be more difficult to provide this adapted training. But basically, there might be two ways to go. I'm a little skeptical about going the application path.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1299	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: «Mobbing is a big problem in many schools. This is often a complex problem, requiring a number of responses at several levels of society. Anti- bullying projects are being launched at schools all over the country. Now the challenge is to ensure the follow-up of these projects. Will local and national results be systematically evaluated, and how is the work of each school monitored on such plans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1308	It is the responsibility of the school owner and the school to choose which tools and programmes they will use to combat bullying and other problem behaviour. It is also the responsibility of the school owners to ensure that schools have developed plans for this work and that plans are followed up. However, through the annual state reports from the national education offices, the Ministry is asking what school owners and schools have done in this area. In the state reporting for 2001, we ask, among other things: whether the school owner has surveyed and evaluated the learning environment and whether the improvement of the learning environment is integrated into the ongoing planning and assessment work done by the school owners and at schools. The state reports give us both the assessments and recommendations of the education offices and the learning centre. The annual state reports give us the opportunity to follow the situation and assess the need for further action by the Ministry, which I perceive the representative Scarbøvik is concerned about. I would also like to mention the ‘Student Inspectors’, a web-based service on the school network, where pupils in upper secondary education can provide their assessment of different aspects of school training in relation to their professional and well-being. The ‘students’ may report on the class environment at school, class and municipality level and are of interest in preventing or implementing concrete measures against bullying. By using the ‘Student Inspectors’, students can gain more influence over their own learning environment. In addition, about half of the country's municipalities and probably all county municipalities carry out different types of quality assessments, which will normally also cover the learning environment. The challenge for schools and municipalities is to take the information from these assessments into account and also to carry out user studies, as we have heard in Oslo before today, as a basis for actions that can contribute to the development of the learning environment in a positive direction. Finally, I would like to mention that the state supports the introduction and use of various programmes to combat problem behaviour and bullying. These are research-based and already have proven effects. Many schools can therefore already show good results. Experience from these schools should be spread to others, and this will actively contribute to the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1319	I agree. Here it's important to get information out, so that schools know what's useful. It's essential. And I'm also glad that one program after another is now being evaluated. Lions Quest, for example. – that’s my choice – is one of them that we know is useful to use. And teachers are happy to get a tool that has been tried out and that they know is useful. So I thank you for the answer, and am glad that this will be followed up. We know that very much good work is done around the schools, and we know that, as in all prevention work, it is the targeted and long-term work over time that produces good results. The ministry recently set up a group to look at this, and I am pleased that this is now being followed up. But I want to ask, when talking about school owners' responsibilities here, how can they follow up? There's no penalty! What about this coming into the form of law? It's a school environment law that's being demanded. I would like to ask the Council of State how she sees this being integrated into the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1328	It's true that there's a lot of good work going on. The representative of Scarbøvik mentioned one measure, ‘It is my choice’. The Children’s Ombudsman shall implement something called ‘In the name of propriety’. I see that my task must be to clarify that some of the programmes have a better and more documented impact than others, so that you do not buy programmes and measures that are more ad hoc and do not have a long-term and preventive effect. That's why I'm saying this sharing experience is important. The representative of Scarbøvik is in charge of sanctions. Yes, you can also think the other way around and say that you need incentives, reward for those schools that really do something. I refer to our proposals on school bonuses and demonstration schools. In addition, we will make proposals to amend the Training Act in this session, with a view to strengthening the protection of pupils in the learning and school environments. It must go not only to the physical environment but also to the psychosocial environment. This is what has been described as a bullying law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1337	I thank you for the answer, and I look forward to this being included in the Training Act. When we know that 100,000 students today are involved in this kind of behavior, there is an urgent need to do something about it, although I still believe that prevention is the most important thing. Here the teacher is key to doing something about this, and also that the principal is committed to the bullying plans contained in the school's business plans. I would therefore like to ask, when we are about to receive a teacher training message, how this is integrated into teacher training, which I think is very important. And that these programs are offered to teachers' colleges, I also see as important. When you know something has been tested and give effect, the department should make this visible and include it in teacher training. Will the State Council take this into account in the teacher training notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1342	The teacher training message will mention this. We consider a separate compulsory subject, which we have called professional knowledge, as among other things. shall relate to the cultural and value base of the school, to the formation of the school, to its forms of communication. It is strange that the solution to these problems – which we are researching, we have programmes and actions, etc. – really, it's a bit of an easy one. It's about adults setting limits. It is about having rules for the school community that are accepted by students, parents, teachers and school managers – rules that are known and that you follow, in the sense that you are punished if you break the rules that exist. It's basically pretty easy, it's about adults setting limits. Adults tend to ask for very complicated solutions to simple things. If you ask the students what's going on, they answer: we need teachers and adults who see when it happens, who intervene when it happens. It's that simple, so it's a responsibility for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1350	This question, from May Hansen to the Minister of Education and Research, will be raised by the representative Linn Laupsa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1353	‘In the budget for 2002, the Østfold High School received 7 million. kr in the start-up appropriation for the detailed design of the ‘Remmen project’. It is budgeted that an additional 25 million are needed. kr for the current year in order to keep progress in the plans for which it has been drawn up. What are the intentions of the Council of State in relation to the pace and progress of this important project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1360	The highest priority of the construction project for the Østfold High School is among planned construction projects in the university and higher education sectors. The project therefore received 7 million in the 2002 state budget. kr for further detailed design and start-up appropriations. At the same time, in Chapter 2445, the Ministry of Labour and the Administration's budget for 2002, it was announced that the Government would come back with proposals for the redeployment of funds from item 32 The design of new buildings to item 30 The launch of construction projects in the context of the revised national budget for 2002. The construction project is in a detailed design phase. The project is large and complicated. It consists of both new buildings and refurbishment. The applicable legislation requires an uncertainty analysis for major projects before final authorisation. The Ministry of Education and Research has therefore, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, carried out an uncertainty analysis which ends these days. The results of the analysis will provide a basis for determining the cost framework. In line with the information provided in St.prp. No 1 from both the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Education and Research, the cost framework will be submitted to the Stortinget for final approval in the revised national budget for 2002. In this context, further details of the progress of the project will also be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1369	I'm registering the answer from the Council of State. As the case stands today, the project is already a quarter delayed, moving into the second or third quarter of 2006. The intention is that tenders should be sent at the end of the year and the first spatula should then be taken into the summer. Currently, state buildings have pushed something away, but depend on money in the revised to continue this project. The Council of State should also be aware of the following: If this project stops, it will have major consequences for higher education and also for Eastfold as an educational group. Can the Council of State in such a way promise that the 2006 deadline is met in the case of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1376	I have just explained that an uncertainty analysis is being carried out according to the current legislation, and that it ends in these days, so I can give no more complete answer than what I have already given. I will come back to Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget, and there will be more detail on the progress of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1381	I would then like to interpret this in such a way that the cost framework is not set for 2002, in relation to the risk analysis carried out. In other words, if I interpret the Council of State correctly, it could mean that the project could be reduced in relation to what might come out of the risk analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1386	Whatever the interpretation of my answer, there's no more interpretation to put in it than what I've said. An uncertainty analysis is carried out. It's going to be implemented, it's not finished, and I have to see it, of course, before I can think of anything about it. Then I will come back to Stortinget as promised. There is nothing more to it than what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1394	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘According to the information provided by the Fisherman on 18 February of this year, the Directorate for Fisheries has proposed that 36 coastal fishing offices should be closed down and that the tasks should be centralised. The fishermen are strongly opposed to the proposal, which they think will weaken, among other things. the consultancy service. Does the Council of State mean that the new organisation takes care of fishermen's interests?»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1403	It is important to stress that the ongoing reorganisation does not entail a reduction or deterioration in the management of fisheries. The aim is to organise an external fisheries network so that it is in the best possible way able to meet today’s challenges and challenges of the future. It is my duty to ensure that the establishment is organised in such a way that public resources are used in the best possible way. The Director of Fisheries is therefore authorised to ‘establish a structure of a fishing office which is deemed to be most appropriate in terms of service provision, resource use, use of competences, etc.’. The fishing director’s model reduces the number of office locations, but with significantly larger offices where there is still room for manoeuvre. Today's office structure was established for approx. 30 years ago and adapted to the tasks and infrastructure of the time. The tasks and infrastructure have since undergone major changes. Among other things, the legislation governing the Norwegian fishing industry is significantly more complex and extensive than in the past. Demand for the traditional services of the Fisheries Guidance Service has been greatly reduced. Travel time has been significantly reduced through the development of roads and tunnels. Developments in ICT have reduced the importance of geographical distances. I understand the concern that prevails locally where it will no longer be guidance. However, I am not in doubt – and that is my responsibility – that today’s situation and the challenges of the future require the establishment of an office structure consisting of more centres of excellence than is the case today. This is important for example: in order to provide satisfactory service both in terms of professional level and width, and in order to provide a continuous and stable presence in the offices. It requires more staffing and more competence. It is important to stress that future centres of excellence will be part of regional offices and located in the regions. These will primarily work with tasks flowing from the neighbourhoods, but could also have regional work areas and work areas. My conclusion, therefore, is that overall, the provision of services in the districts will be strengthened by the current reorganisation, and there will be cost-effective solutions that will enable us to carry out the work in a better way, not least in terms of resource control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1420	I thank you for your answer. I just need to record that the Council of State does not have support for the reorganization that is currently being provided. The size in cases where it has been natural to enter the fisherman's advisory service, has been strongly stressed that this guide service must provide good service, it must be geographically close to the fishing environment, and it must be accessible to users. The fishermen believe – and I believe that they owe a whole fishing industry – that the opposite is happening now, with the conversion that is taking place. It's okay that one has received e-mail, one has received electronic help. But it can also go the opposite way, so it shouldn't be problematic to have a decentralised guidance service while maintaining competence. Does the Council of State mean that this conversion has support in Stortinget? And shouldn't the guide service be for the fishermen, and not necessarily for the bureaucrats?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1431	The guidance service and the fisheries management must serve several purposes. There is a growing demand for better service and shorter treatment times, and the current reorganisation is part of achieving this. This is also anchored in the treatment in Stortinget, and is something that the previous government and this government have implemented. So the reorganisation that's now done hasn't come overnight, and it'll take us a while before we get all the things in place. There must be good service, proximity and availability. But it should not be unknown to anyone, either in this house, that there is a significant dissatisfaction with the level of service, precisely with the long duration of treatment in the fisheries management. This is part of meeting the desire for greater competence, better quality and faster procedure — and for decisions to be taken closer to users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1436	You can ask a lot of questions about whether the decisions will be taken closer to the users, for example in Hordaland County to centralize the entire guide service to Bergen. It has been seen as a great advantage that the guidance service has been in the active fishing environment, and it will no longer be achieved in a state like Hordaland, when it becomes as powerful a centralization as the one that happens there. Then I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Fisheries, as in his first answer, and also in reply around the country, has said that when it comes to both the organisation and the geographical location of the guidance office, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Director of Fisheries have been given authority to decide. Does the Council of State mean that it is a purely administrative task to make such a major change in the structure of guidance in one of the most important industries we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1443	Now we're not going to over-dimension the change that's now being made. This affects a certain number of fishing offices, and it is therefore not such that we remove the services from the fishing environment. It must not be produced in this way, but it must be borne in mind that there is a significant demand from the industry that there should be better service, faster service, more decisions should be made closer to the fishermen. Then we need a professional environment and not individual representatives sitting outside, who have had to send matters too much either to the regional director or to Bergen. It has delayed the decisions. So I feel confident that once this has come up, the industry will also be very satisfied that they get better service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1451	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The government says they want to continue the development of public service offices with municipal and state participation. Work is in progress on setting up such offices in the municipalities. The size has allowed 30 million. kr such as, inter alia: to provide financial support for local projects. Criteria for the allocation of funds should be clear in January 2002, but municipalities have been informed that the invitation to the candidate round is deferred. When can the municipalities expect the applicant criteria to be completed?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1460	It is correct for the representative to point out that the Government will have progress in the development of public service offices. These include: fixed in the Sem declaration. In my statement on modernising, streamlining and simplifying the public sector, as I presented to the Stortinget in January, I point out that public service offices and electronic administration should act as user-oriented gateways to public administrations across departments and levels of government. The 30 million. kr set aside in my budget for further efforts to establish such offices should be directed towards the projects that best support this objective. Some of the funds will be used for the central development of public service offices, the development of joint actions and projects. The majority will be used to support and stimulate local action for both municipal and state services. Here I have noticed that in many municipalities, exciting work is being done that provides the basis for more customer-friendly and service-oriented service in the first line, and at the same time contributes to a more efficient response within the floors. I am very concerned that we should get the most out of this money in terms of services adapted to local conditions and the needs of different user groups. We therefore want to stimulate the testing of the diversity of such user-oriented access ports for public services. An important challenge is also to contribute to the inclusion of the different state agencies in such cooperation in a service-oriented and qualitatively good way. And although the coordination and simplification of benefits related to work, social security and social services is organised as a separate project and is about more than the first-line service, we may also have much to learn to look at the experience of working with public service offices in that area. Because in this way we want to stimulate a more diverse concept for public service offices and other types of access ports to public services, we have been working to review and develop new criteria for the use of funds. I expect that the new guidelines, and with that invitation to submit proposals, will be available in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1471	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased if the municipalities are now informed in fourteen days. Then I only have one additional comment, and it is that someone who uses a service office does not get irritated on the phone and hear that you are still in line, when it is really a long wait. I hope there are such childhood diseases that you are now taking away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1478	What we are primarily concerned about is that users should feel that they are getting an overall good offer from the service offices. That means that we're very concerned about getting all levels, so it's not just about the municipal level, but also about the county and state level. We are also concerned that the service offices should actually operate not only as a guidance centre, but as a place where the main gravity of the user needs can be met on site.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1483	Question 20 is from the representative Heikki Holmås to the Minister of Labour and Administration. However, the questioner is not to be seen at the moment. Question 21 has been moved and is to be answered in advance of question 29. Let's move on to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1495	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Administration the following questions: ‘The mandate of the Labour Law Committee was revised by the Government in December 2001. The selection shall be carried out through the working hours and the mandate extended to include a full review of the protection of employees. Two months after the revision, the government has announced the softening of the overtime frame in the laws and that the job protection for senior managers will be removed. Does the Council of State have confidence in the process in progress, and why can the Council of State not be pending in relation to the democratic process that is taking place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1504	As the representative Oppebøen Hansen says, last December the Government adopted a slightly revised mandate for the Labour Law Committee. The mandate is now clearer as regards the objective of a law that takes account both of value creation and of the health, environment and safety of workers, and of the security of work and income. The committee shall have a term of 1 December 2003 and, following its term of office, shall propose a new law to the labour force. Both the provisions on working time and job protection are within the mandate of the panel. I have great confidence in both the sample and the process. But I think it's right to point out that the creation of a legislative committee cannot mean that the Working Environment Act is at peace during the selection period, if there are good reasons to change earlier. Similarly, other legal committees have also taken place. For example, in the 1990s, changes in the law on popular protection were made in parallel with a major revision. The selection process means that a new law can be adopted at the earliest by the Stortinget in 2004. I believe it will be too long to wait for the necessary decoration in the overtime rules and have therefore submitted proposals to this effect at this time of general consultation. The reason why the government has chosen to send this out now is that there is a need to achieve greater flexibility in working life, and that we need to make it easier for companies to compete for jobs that lead to stoppages. In addition, the proposal will involve the release of resources in the Labour Inspectorate. This is a matter of concern to the Government, and it is then appropriate to have this issue resolved separately, before the legislative committee looks at the structure and greater grasp of the Work Environment Act. We have also sent out a proposal to remove the job protection for top managers with pay agreements. The main aim is to discourage the development of significant back-up contracts, parachutes, etc. The issue has arisen at regular intervals, and recent examples in the press have updated the need to propose measures. The Government is concerned that the rules on job protection cannot be used as a means of pressurisation and thus contribute to the entry of enterprises into costly and long-term processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1517	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I refer to a letter sent by the Council of State to the Municipal Committee on 11 February of this year, which will be discussed in Document No. 8:33. The Council of State writes: ‘A government-designated, party-designated sample has been mandated to review the whole of the Working Environment Act with a view to a revision. [[Labour Law Committee]] One of the points of the mandate concerns working time, including: ‘The individual framework and conditions for the length and location of working time shall be assessed with a view to achieving greater flexibility both for individual workers and for businesses.’ The issue of any change to night work provisions is one of the themes to be addressed in this context. My question is: why is it so important to make amendments when it comes to simplifying the rules of overtime, rather than other questions of working time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1531	It is clear that all issues related to working time are initially of high priority. What we felt we needed was to solve some acute problems relating to the use of overtime, and in particular questions related to the almost normal nature of granting exemptions for overtime work, and we have, in reality, been given a bureaucratic process. We believe that there was a need for simplification and a quick treatment of this particular issue. Personally, I would have liked us to be able to address the other working time issues earlier than what is possible with the set-up, but I therefore have the respect for the democratic process – which the representative initially raised – that I am willing to accept that we have to await the legislative committee on the other issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1538	I'll thank you once again for your answer. I must say that I am little surprised that the department has now sent a proposal to simplify the law when it applies to permitted overtime, so soon after they themselves have been in and changed on the mandate. I'm aware that the Sem statement has a softening in this area, but I think there is little trust in the selection to assess the wholeness of this. So my purely principled question is, is this a practice that the Council of State will also lead in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1547	As I was at the outset, this is a practice that has been used in the past. There's nothing new in it. It is not a practice that is desirable in itself. It has nothing to do with questions of trust in selection to do, but it has to do with how much time we can wait to solve problems that are relatively acute. The Labour Inspectorate knows we are in a pressured resource situation. It is not appropriate to use the time to deal with dispensations in an area where it should not be necessary to have a system whereby exemptions must be sought.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1552	The next question was then from the representative Heikki Holmås, who has now appeared, to the Minister of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1559	Then I'll say a thousand thanks, President! The turns went a little fast. I have the following questions: ‘In the budget of the year, the Government was empowered to sell State land ‘at a lower price than market prices for which special consideration is given’. The intention of the proposer was that such plots could be sold to municipalities, for example, to build cheap rental properties, or public schools where the subsidised price remains in the project. Has the Council made a plan for such a state-owned land sale in areas where the need for cheap rental housing is greatest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1570	In the case of the sale of government real estate, it follows from the disposal instruction that the starting point is sale at market prices after an open bidding round. The Government of Stoltenberg, the Minister of Labour and Administration, Jørgen Kosmo, promoted in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 proposal for a power to dispose of State real estate below market prices where ‘special considerations so require’. The mandate was adopted by the Stortinget in the budgetary procedure, although the current government proposed to withdraw the draft mandate in St. Prp. No 1 Appendix No 4th@item: inlistbox When the Cooperative Government did not see the need for a general authorisation for the sale of property below market prices, there were several reasons for this. The first was that a general authorisation for disposal below the market price where ‘special consideration is due to it’ is unfortunate, because in concrete context it would be so difficult to determine what is contained in the concept of ‘special consideration’. In practice, therefore, such authorisation could easily help to undermine the entire disposal file. In this context, it is important to bear in mind that the background to the disposal instructions, for example: is to draw attention to the cost side of the state property stock. The second reason is that the use of the mandate will help to camouflage the real costs associated with the objectives pursued. It's e.g. not cheaper for the State to provide support for dwellings by selling land at a sub-price than it is by providing direct support for residential purposes. On the contrary, it's normal to get more money back by providing direct support than by providing cheap land. Sale at underprice is therefore a socially unlucky and unforeseeable way of achieving important objectives. The third is that the use of the mandate makes it difficult to organise State-building in an appropriate manner. As a management company, returns on invested capital and net budgeting of operating costs must be required. The sale of property at below market prices is difficult to reconcile with such requirements. Nevertheless, when the Government has been authorised to dispose of State property at a price lower than the market price, it takes note of it. The Government believes that the mandate should only be used in specific cases and that the mandate is not an order from the Stortinget. Against this background, the Government has no plans for the systematic sale of State land below market prices in areas requiring cheap rental properties. This does not preclude the Government in special cases, e.g.: in order to safeguard cultural and open-air interests, the mandate may be sought.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1587	Thanks for the answer. I was afraid of that answer, and that's really why I asked. I remember when I asked about this before Christmas, during the treatment of the budget, the Council of State said that this authority had not been requested. Now it's explained some of the reasons why you don't have plans to use it. But the reason I'm asking now is that when presenting the position to the Housing Committee, the head mentioned that this was one of the things they thought was important, where the state could have an important role to play. One of the arguments that were not used today, but that have been used in the past, is that it is not possible to know whether this subsidisation will be in the project, but in my opinion it will be quite possible to obtain it through the clause either by sale or by attaching such a blank.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1596	I am not sure what the supplementary question was, but I remember the representative Holmås’ views. I just want to repeat what I've already said, that when we're initially sceptical about using the authority, there's a strong reason for that. One of the important reasons is that this is really a way to camouflage support for good purposes. I don't see any need to camouflage support for people looking for housing, if you really want to benefit the people looking for housing, and therefore we are very sceptical about the principle of selling at below market prices. But we appreciate that we have the authority, and as I said, we will not rule out that in special cases we can use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1603	I'm going to give the council a good argument as to why it's smart to do just this. These are the following: what was used as an argument here is that you are going to spend the money, and then you are going to give them as a direct grant, so that the municipalities can possibly buy these plots from the state at market price, if you want to build cheap dwellings. That's how it works. The Council of State has now been asked to make total cost calculations. There is nothing wrong with using total cost assessments and calculations to show the amount of subsidisation you are making, thus making the exact amount of subsidisation you are making visible if you sell a land cheaply. In a market that is under pressure, enter and contribute by selling an empty cheaper to e.g. a municipality, it will not be price driven in a market, but if, on the other hand, money is injected as a subsidy, it will help to push prices up, in addition to the fact that there is no political majority for such an increase in subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1608	Firstly, I very much appreciate noting that the representative Holmås is a student representative who has noticed good things from the statement on modernisation. When it comes to the last question, I think I want to maintain that prices in the market are determined by the volume of supply and demand. If you move an item out of the market by removing both the provider and the demand, the net effect is that the prices in the market are just as they were before. But this is a theme representative Holmås and I might be able to discuss elsewhere than here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1615	The president doesn't ignore the fact that he should also like to be part of that discussion, but we get to move on in the Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1628	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1635	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The Ministry of Transport has been with and funded by the Bilist 2000 organisation in recent years. Carlist 2000 has evolved into an organisation with a broad public involvement. 140 000 drivers have undertaken to comply with the organisation’s road safety measures. Now the organisation Bilist 2000 needs help to reorganize in order to continue. Will the Council of State take the initiative to enable Bilist 2000 to continue its work on road safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1644	I refer to the mention of Carist 2000 in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002, presented by the Government of Stoltenberg, and my response to the Transport Committee on Bilist 2000 in the context of the 2002 state budget. The Bilist 2000 Foundation was established in spring 2000 on the initiative of the National Association of Car Importers, which wanted to launch a nationwide effort to improve road safety. A number of public and private organisations and institutions were behind the initiative. Carlist 2000 was originally planned to run over three years, with annual evaluations. By making a written promise to use safety belts and respecting the speed limits, the country’s drivers could qualify for membership in the Billist 2000 and thus also be involved in the drawing of a number of gains, including: cars. Per. Today 140000 drivers have joined the action. The Ministry of Transport asked the Directorate of Road Transport to ensure the participation of road authorities in the Billist 2000. The Directorate of Roads has since its inception been in the Board of Directors of the Foundation and provided that the contribution of the public should not exceed 40 p.m. the revenue and that Bilist 2000 should not be a publicly driven road safety action. The Directorate granted 1 million. EUR 5 million for preparatory work in the autumn of 1999 and in the spring of 2000. SEK in 2000 and 4 million. kr in 2001. The Road Directorate has never before gone into a single road safety action with such funds. At the turn of the year 2001/2002, the Foundation has a significant accumulated deficit of 2.5 million. kr, and all cost-driven activities have now ceased. According to the Directorate of Roads’ assessment, the lack of follow-up to the Board’s obligation to balance the accounts is a cause of the deficit. In the view of the Directorate-General for Road Transport, the economic problems have also resulted in some distortion of the Foundation’s ideal purpose in terms of revenue-bearing activities. An interim evaluation of the action taken by TØI in November 2000 also revealed uncertainty as to the impact of the action on road safety. Therefore, from the point of view of other road safety tasks, I do not consider it desirable to continue public involvement in the case of Bilist 2000 beyond 2001. However, the Directorate of Roads has provided funds for an evaluation in 2002. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Committee on Transport did not have any comments on the further involvement of the State in its position on the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1661	I thank you for your answer. What concerns me in this case is that an initiative has been taken that has been brought up by 140 000 drivers, and it has been interrupted by the industry. I am not asking you to continue to have such a significant public responsibility for this organisation, so that it itself becomes a public institution. But it's a matter of creating attitudes in traffic that can help us get the chance to achieve the zero vision that we've formulated about fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. Then you can't leave a good idea and a good initiative like the Billist 2000 end up going bankrupt. The accumulated deficit mentioned by the Council of State is the situation of the organisation. The key now is whether the State will contribute funds to avoid the right to change and that the organisation can continue in a different form.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1668	I interpret the representative’s question as important to road safety. I think we agree very much on that. Now, any road safety measures must be seen in relation to the benefits that can be gained from the action. Being involved in an action where you sign that you want to comply with Norwegian traffic laws is not the most ambitious way to work in terms of road safety work. These are more important things, I believe, which should be on the agenda when talking about road safety and attitudes. This concerns how to contribute road safety to education in schools, driver training, etc. It's not certain that an action, which for some people might seem more like a lottery, is the way to go in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1675	Again a specific question: will the Council of State contribute to the provision of funding to Bilist 2000 to avoid shifting rights and to enable them to continue on a different basis from today’s, which ensures the initiative and the idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1680	As I said in my first reply, the Directorate-General for Road Transport proposes to provide funds for an evaluation of the project in 2002, and that is the financial support that is involved in entering into 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1696	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1703	‘As a result of the ferry traffic between Moss and Horten, last year 131,000 wagon trains passed through the Moss centre. Part of this is dangerous goods. According to Moss Avis, 16 February 2002 Bastø Fosen will not report the types of dangerous goods carried with the ferries. Moss municipality depends on getting this information to make a good emergency plan and being prepared for crisis management. Will the Council of State take the initiative to oblige the carrier to provide this information to the municipality?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1710	Administrations require the shipping company to have a copy of the consignment note of the carriage by land so that they can keep track of the dangerous goods carried by ferry at all times, in order to ensure the best possible safety of passengers and materials during the crossing. The responsibility of the shipowner ceases when the transport leaves the ferry. Following the request of the State Road Administration and the municipality of Moss, the company is now reporting the number of dangerous goods transported to the municipality. The volume of transport is thus mapped. Self-regulation applies to inland transport. However, there is no information obligation on the dangerous goods transported from place to place as long as the transport operation is authorised. The State Road Service approves cars and trailers for the transport of dangerous goods and carries out checks on such transport. In some contexts, it is desirable to know what kind of dangerous goods are being transported, and the State Road Service makes individual registrations in this respect. I understand that Moss Municipality wants the best possible access to information in order to be prepared for any crisis situations. I would therefore like to take the initiative of the State Road Administration, the Directorate for Fire and Electricity Safety, the shipping company and the municipalities concerned to identify the problem, so that local authorities can draw up the best possible crisis plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1719	This was a very positive answer. I guess that's how to understand that Moss's municipality can now largely benefit from the attitude expressed here by the Council of State. There is no doubt that the centre of Moss, with small areas, winding road systems with roundabouts, intersections, hills and narrow roads, is a small roadway. So here's a great opportunity for serious emergencies to occur. And when the Council of State now says that there is a willingness to obtain actual information that can lead to the municipality knowing at any time what is going through the city, the situation in this matter must be said to be resolved. I therefore hope that the Council of State will take this initiative as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1724	We agree here that it is important to take care of the need for safety in the transport of dangerous goods, so I will do my part and take the initiative that is necessary for us to follow up this matter in a good manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1729	Just in the end: I have to say that I was a little surprised when I read about this in the paper, because there is no doubt that there is transparency and this with the leading var-principle that must be on the basis of this kind of case. After all, a good cooperation between the traffic company Bastø Fosen and the municipality of Moss must be the cornerstone of this case. So again, thank you for a positive answer, and I expect this to happen immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1739	I must be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘On the Gjøvik track, trains have been replaced by buses on some departures [[NSB BA's own bus company]] Will the Council of State explain why these bus departures have not been tendered and how much are the State transfers to NSB BA on these bus routes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1748	Through the agreement on the purchase by the State of passenger transport services, the Ministry of Transport buys passenger train services from NSB BA. In autumn 2000 train production was reduced on some low-traffic train departures due to a difficult driver’s situation. On Gjøvikbanen this resulted in a one-off reduction in every direction Monday to Friday, and one departure on Saturday and Sunday. NSB BA applied for a bus concession to replace these train departures by bus. The application was granted by the Ministry of Transport. Today, the bus departs constitute a pure compensation offer for the train take-offs that have been removed on the Gjøvik Railway. The bus only stops at the train stations or the nearest bus stop. NSB BA’s train ticket prices also apply to the bus departures that replace the train departures and the departures are only advertised in the company’s train schedules. The parent company of NSB BA purchases bus services from its wholly owned subsidiary Nettbuss AS under contract for each term. The NSB pays approximately NOK 33 000 a week for these bus services. As a result of the fact that Nettbuss AS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the parent company NSB BA, the law on public acquisitions and related regulations does not require NSB BA to tender the purchase of bus services from Nettbuss AS. I am concerned that the State does not pay more than necessary for these services. I would therefore like to mention with the NSB whether there are other ways to make these purchases, including the use of tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1759	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State will address this, so that it can submit a tender. But then she refers to them being allowed to buy bus services from their own company. Then I will refer to the rules on public acquisitions, and it says that you have an obligation to ‘exempt the purchase of transport services’. Different financial limits have been set, and ‘buying of services for between $200,000 and $1.6 million. kr shall also be put off for competition’. Then on page 13 of the «Guide to the regulation of public acquisitions»: ‘In order to be subject to the rules, it is first required that the body serves ‘the needs of the general public’.’ Furthermore, it states that: ‘AS Vinmonopolet, NSB BA and Posten BA are included. On the other hand, Postbanken or DNB ASA will not be included.’ I don't know about the council and I read two different rules – or how is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1778	The rules are probably fairly clear, and as I pointed out, the bus company operating the route is a wholly-timed subsidiary of NSB BA. What's interesting in this context is getting an effective use of the funds to buy services. In this context, it's also important to make sure that we spend the money properly. What I see as an important task for us in such cases is that we ensure that the NSB, to the extent that the NSB cannot run the route by train, finds the most reasonable, most effective and best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1783	I thank you for your answer. I was very pleased that this was to be done. Now this was just an example of the Gjøvik track. Similar is done on the Dovre course and a lot of other places. Will the Council of State ensure that this is done throughout the country, on the entire network of the NSB, and not just on the Gjøvik Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1790	It's a goal for me to get the most effective use of the funds we put in, even in relation to public transport. It is desirable that we get good solutions for all road users and that we find the most environmentally friendly solutions in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1798	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘During a transitional period until 1 May 2002, the 180 and 181 numbers are answered, but no unsolicited information on the company’s new numbers is provided. After this date, the order of the numbers of the new operators will be read at random. The statements in the newspapers in the last few days show that the new operators do not ensure full service to consumers. Why has the Post and Telecommunications Authority made such a forced pace in the closure of the 180 and 181 numbers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1807	For a long time, postal and telecommunications regulators have been working to facilitate competition in directory enquiry services. Work has included the publication of new numbers, the withdrawal of Telenor’s numbers 180 and 181, and the more practical aspects of access to the information on which the services are based. In order to facilitate effective competition, it is important that operators are given a level playing field. This means, among other things: equal access for operators to the same type of numbers. The postal and telecommunications supervision has initially consisted of a four-digit numbering series to be used for these services. Telenor, together with five other actors, has been allocated new four-digit numbers for the numbering services. The postal and telecommunications authorities decided that the new numbers could be used as from 15 February 2002. The withdrawal of the three-digit numbers 180 and 181 was made in order not to give Telenor a competitive advantage. Telenor was also notified in August 2000 that 180 and 181 could be withdrawn. With regard to the date of withdrawal of 180 and 181, this was done on the basis of both competitive and consumer considerations. From a competitive point of view, it would be unfortunate if the information service of 180 and 181 were to be operationally parallel to the start of new number information service providers. This would make it difficult for them to take market shares before competition is effective. The postal and telecommunications authorities have stated that for this reason they considered it beneficial to withdraw 180 and 181 at the same time. On the other hand, the rapid withdrawal of these numbers could be perceived as negative for consumers. Therefore, it will be possible to use these numbers for a while to come. It will take care not least of the consumer-friendly aspect and could have a positive impact on the end-user. A normal consequence of competition is that services become more reasonable and/or better. I expect this to happen also by introducing competition in the directory enquiry services. The immediate consequence of the introduction of competition is that information services are now being organised in Sami. Other EEA countries have made the same assessments. Among other things in the United Kingdom, surveys have shown that the public does not have significant problems adapting to new numbers for information services quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1822	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's probably Norway's first country, if we take as an example the countries we compare with, that have gone into such a method that we're now talking about. I would also like to point out that when new market players enter the market, it is strange to have to withdraw these numbers in order for others to be able to enter. I ask the Council of State, are there equal terms? Now this is to be addressed to a telephone answering machine to provide information on all these numbers, and Telenor’s information service is not explicitly accessible. It's going to be a random order. It is also the case that these are district jobs. I ask the Council of State: is it now possible to ignore the fact that these are important district jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1829	Telenor will continue to have an information service, and it is already possible to call the existing directory enquiry service today and know which numbers will and will have both new and existing information services. So it's reasonably consumer friendly already per. today. It will also be, as I said in my answer instead, that the 180 and 181 numbers will still be in use. This is an attempt and a way of ensuring that we will be able to have competition and thus better and/or cheaper provision of information services. As I also mentioned, there are experiences from other countries that say that this is a useful way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1834	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There's no one who disagrees that we should have more reasonable and better services, but it's not sure that's what we get. We have already heard that there are very big problems with the new actors in order to provide satisfactory information. This can lead to quality pressure and discredit for the whole service. New operators receive market shares under conditions other than quality, service and price. Users do not receive the service for which they have requested and paid. Changing numbers and audio bands can also cause major problems for people in need of help. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: have the Council of State considered possible consequences for users? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that consumers are still guaranteed full service and quality of service?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1843	It is still the case that existing information services will continue, so that it is possible to call Telenor’s information service in the course of the process. Because there has been competition, it should not mean that the existing information service is getting worse than it is today. On the contrary, when we get competition, it will in itself be the motivation to inculcate good information, to provide correct information, and to be consumer-friendly in the way you provide services. It will be important for the new actors to demonstrate to the already existing operator that they are good. This will be the market itself, and any consumer wishing to use Telenor’s information service will be able to do so in the course of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1850	In line with the notified changes, we now go back to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1857	This question, from the representative of Mr Reidar Sandal to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1860	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘We must provide a financial framework which does not allow the smallest municipalities to be self-sufficient in all areas’, says the Council of State Norman according to the Official Journal of Bergen. What are the measures to put in place to frame municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1869	Through the Sem Declaration, the Government has committed itself to strengthening the municipal economy. This will benefit all municipalities. The income system will ensure a fair distribution of the funds allocated to the local government sector. The differences between municipalities in the country are partly large in terms of, among other things, population composition and size. Today, through the cost equalisation of expenditure, municipalities receive full compensation for costs related to the size of the municipality. The basic supplement compensates small municipalities for higher administrative costs per year. resident than larger municipalities. Oslo and Utsira represent each of their extremes. While Oslo gets 11 per cent. resident in basic supplements, Utsira receives NOK 23 784 per year. the population. The Income System Committee pointed out that the basic supplement may weaken the incentives of municipalities to exploit economies of scale through voluntary community associations. The reason for this is that part of any cost gain is drawn by the country in the form of a reduced cost-balancing grant. In order to prevent a loss of income for connecting municipalities, a separate breakdown grant has been introduced in the income system as of this year. Joining municipalities will receive a breakdown grant for 10 years. I believe that the municipalities in general should cooperate more, and that some municipalities should join together in order to enable them in the future to offer the citizens the service they are looking for. The background for this is not primarily economic, but a response to the challenges facing more demanding users and the ability of municipalities to attract skilled labour. However, I have no faith that coercion is the way to go. The initiative must come from a local team. There are no plans by the Government to change the cost-balancing principles. In addition, the regional grant, which contributes to facilitating the provision of a high level of municipal services for outlying municipalities, is to be continued. Therefore, district municipalities will continue to be economically able to carry out their tasks in the future. However, municipalities must be able to convert and develop in order to deliver a better service to users. Municipalities that have come into a difficult economic situation and are asking for an additional discretionary grant must be faced with stronger demands to assess the necessary conversion measures, including cooperation with neighbouring municipalities or local councils, before it becomes relevant for the state, for example. additional discretionary grants. The development of demands on the working environment and the challenges for employees, as well as the requirements for users will address, inter alia: competence and quality of public procedures and services will make it difficult for small municipalities to be self-sufficient in all areas. That is why they must cooperate. We cannot compensate for this through the local economy. New measures are not introduced to the smallest municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1882	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I note that the Solberg Council has at least a somewhat more nuanced view of the role of the smallest municipalities than the Norman State Council has expressed. State Council Norman expand his point of view in an interview in the Nations of February 21st this year. It says: ‘What I have said is that we are going to create an income system that is such that the smallest municipalities cannot survive on their own if they continue to aim to be self-sufficient in all services.’ My question to the Solberg Government Council is therefore: does it share the view expressed by the Norman Government's colleague?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1894	My view is that we should have an income system based on objective criteria. This does not mean that we are going to make changes to the elements that exist today, with the exception of what is stated in the Sem Declaration, namely that we are going to do something about the threshold effects on regional subsidies, which are another problem area. But the thing that's underlined, where I would choose a different way of formulating myself than what Victor Norman has done, is that it's the driving force on other aspects of municipal economy and services that's going to make it difficult for some of the smaller municipalities to solve their tasks in the future, and that there's therefore a need for them to cooperate. It is not something we should actively contribute to through changes in the income system, but we should also not counteract it through the design of the income system, because we believe that municipalities need to cooperate to provide optimum solutions to users. The challenge of optimum solutions for users is currently difficult for small municipalities, because it is a matter of attracting skilled labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1899	I thank you for your reply from the Council of State. I find that State Council Solberg will have fewer municipalities, but will not use force to achieve this, while government colleague Norman will use heavy economic instruments to get this done. I also notice that the Council of State Solberg is doing the best she can to mitigate the effects of Norman's decrees. I want to say it this way: what the Council of State has said, Norman cannot be understood otherwise than that he wants to force the municipalities to merge using financial instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1908	I don't think there's any disagreement between me and the Minister of Labour and Administration about the need for better cooperation between the municipalities. We've chosen a slightly different way of expressing what the challenges are, and how to solve them. But there is consensus in the Government that we should have an income system that is objective, because it provides us with the best possible incentive for both large and small municipalities to operate all their services efficiently, because then they are left with the benefit of the efficiency they do. This will also be done by small municipalities, by finding better and more effective ways of cooperating with other municipalities. Then they'll have room to solve other problems because you have a more efficient operation. Then we also agree that we need to have heavy economic instruments to achieve that. In fact, the Labour Party and the Right have agreed on the heaviest economic means, namely the disaggregation grant, which means that one will sit with a far greater gain once again, for example. an association in the first ten years of what you had with the previous financial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1918	This question, from the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be raised by the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1921	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Government is now proposing a reversal of the decision on a new division of tasks with regard to the county municipality. What is the vision of the Council of State for the new county?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1930	A key principle of the Government’s modernisation of the public sector is that tasks and responsibilities should be assigned as close as possible to those involved. It is important both for the sake of local democracy and to promote effective resolution. Therefore, in line with the Sem Declaration, the Government has carried out a thorough assessment of the tasks of handling St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001 was planned to be added to the county. Following the Government’s assessment, this review shows that there is room to decentralise significantly more environmental and agricultural tasks to municipalities. The tasks that remain with the county authorities after several tasks have been entrusted to the municipalities will largely be the exercise of authority, e.g.: the processing of concession applications, supervision and appeals, grant management and tasks where national holistic intervention is necessary. The nature of the tasks, where the requirement of equality and legal certainty is high, would leave the county councils little room for action to pursue policies. Instead, the county would be an administrator of state authority and an over-municipality vis-à-vis the municipalities. It could lay the foundation for conflicts between elected bodies in municipalities and counties, thus weakening the municipal administration. The government wants the county to be a partner and resource in the regional development work. The Government will therefore give the county more responsibility and authority over funds relevant to regional development. In the first instance, the county is given increased authority in the management of regional and regional policy instruments. At the same time, further decentralisation of economic instruments to counties in other areas is being considered. I believe that such a decentralisation of economic instruments is far more important to strengthen the county as a development actor than to transfer responsibility for regional environmental and agricultural tasks, where the possibilities to provide the county council with space for action are limited, if we are to have a national environmental and agricultural policy, which I have always believed the centre party placed great emphasis on. With the economic instruments now made available to the county and through the role of the county as planning authority, the county will be given the framework conditions for becoming a partner and a resource in regional development work. However, whether the county councils will actually do so in the future depends on the county being able to fulfil the partnership role and become a good and inclusive partner for the municipalities, the business community and the instrumentation. I have a vision not only for the county but for the whole public sector: it is more local self-government, clearer role-sharing between state, county and municipality and not least a public sector organised to address the needs of service users. The Government's proposals for April will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1948	I thank you for your answer. It is an answer that asks that the Council of State represents a party which has as its main vision for the county to have it closed. It now emphasises that the county should be a regional development actor. There is no news, it was agreed last year with a broad majority in Stortinget in connection with the management of the Landfill Communication on Regional and Regional Policy. But the Council of State has actually found it necessary to ignore the Task Distribution Selection’s recommendations – yes, it was even a broad majority in the Stortinget that last year told us what tasks the county municipalities should have. And she hasn't stopped there. She has asked questions about the vital tasks of the county councils today as users, and in relation to democracy, for example. carriage and further education. Will the state council also take action as an additional weakening of the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1955	The policy I have outlined is a policy behind the entire Government, which is an assessment of different aspects of the county's work and tasks and the assessment of tasks in the environment and agriculture. There are still several elements relating to the counties that have not been clarified, and several of these elements have been asked by the Storting itself to be investigated. There are issues related to drug use, issues related to child protection, and there are issues related to dental care. In dealing with the shift of the major health reform, the Stortinget was actually concerned with these three issues and that an assessment of the location had to be made. This is what the Government continues to do. So Stortinget has asked for an assessment of a two-way network. There is an investigation carried out by the Directorate of Roads, which has not been dealt with politically in the Government, but it is now out on a hearing and will come to government treatment at a given time. But I remind you that it is the Stortinget who has also asked in that area that this two-way network should actually be done. The only area that has been new in itself is that we have felt the need to go through the environmental and agricultural departments more thoroughly and move them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1962	When it comes to the environment and agriculture, the setting last year shows that two parties, the Right and the Advance Party, disagreed with what was then done. I note that the right has had an impact in this area. Some areas – let me mention three – are very important to people most, and here I will challenge the Council of State. I have learned further education and transportation. I will make it concrete by mentioning public transport and the ability to travel across municipalities. Here the county councils have a superior responsibility today. It is not the organisation that is the problem – cork when it comes to the secondary schools or when it comes to public transport – but lack of means. I believe that both those who live in the districts and those who live in the cities feel that having a holistic approach in relation to the continuing schools has a great deal to do – for the sake of those who are going to take education and for the ringing effects it involves. Here's per. date the state council was not satisfied. In the case of Aetat, which means too many: Will the Council of State consider leaving Aetat to the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1971	Firstly, we have not said that we should shift responsibility for public transport or for the secondary school from the county municipalities. We have a government work related to this and we want to do about it. a month to come to Stortinget with a new notification of the division of tasks. As I said, we want to open up a differentiated problem solution. In principle, all parties should agree on the proposals for differentiated solutions, but it would be interesting to consider individual other types of organisation. Among other things, I would like to refer to what Kristin Clemet said earlier in this questionnaire on a question from another central party, that if there is evidence of – or suggestions about – organizations that really provide a better school, or that tend to do so, we should not shut this down. The level of administration is probably not more important than trying out a reform that can give us a better school — if we all agree that we should have better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1981	I have this question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Odd society is at risk of losing 150 jobs. This is a hard blow for a municipality that has lost 1,000 industrial jobs in 30 years, and for a region that is declining in population. Will the Council of State ensure that a concerted effort is taken to save jobs and to introduce new ones into Odda and Inner Hardanger, and what initiatives will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e1990	The Odda community is built around the melting industry, and international competition creates a constant pressure for change, both in industry and in the surrounding society. There is little I can do to influence the international markets of the Norwegian melting industry. What the Government can do is to contribute to the Norwegian business community having the same framework conditions as its international competitors. We are doing this well, by means of measures to lower taxes and taxes and by providing business-friendly public legislation. In addition, of course, the selective instruments, such as the various district policy instruments of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, are added. In addition, it is the enterprises themselves that have to take responsibility for being competitive in international markets. The government has also been informed about the potential of the company to convert its activities into the production of the Finnish chemical products Dicy and CY-50. The company has pointed out that a change can lead to the maintenance of 50–60 jobs in the establishment in the first place, but this can gradually reach 100 jobs. Furthermore, the company has stressed that the switchover will bring environmental benefits, including: by removing CO2 emissions through shut-down in the carbid activity and using CO2 in the new production. In order to achieve the conversion, the company has identified a need for public investment aid of 100 million. kr. The Odda Melting Works project raises issues relevant to a future greenhouse gas allowance system. The Ministry of the Environment is working on an additional message to St.meld. No 54 for 2000–2001, Norwegian climate policy, which, according to the Sem Declaration, will present national measures and instruments before 2005. In general, emphasis will be placed on triggering the cheapest measures to maximise emissions at the lowest possible price. Per. Today, however, environmental protection management does not manage aid schemes to an extent that can realise the financing of the concrete project at Odda Smelteverk. I cannot promise any further initiatives today. We have an assessment of the link between environmental policy/quota systems and CO2 reduction by supporting a conversion at Odda Smelteverk. In addition, the main instruments of the district and regional policy work of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will be decentralised to the county municipality from next year. The challenges now facing the Odda community are not of a new date. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is already heavily involved in the conversion work in Odda. Over the last four to five years, the municipality has received 17 million. kr from the Ministry of Local and Regional Planning’s commitment to conversion and innovation. According to the rapporteur, this has contributed to the creation of 100 new jobs in Odda. So the conversion work is going well. I therefore see it as very important that Odda now takes advantage of the experience that has been gained so far if the plans for further industrial decline were to be implemented. I see that there are major migration challenges not only in Odda, but throughout Inner Hardanger. It is therefore necessary for the county of Hordaland, in cooperation with the municipalities and the business community of the region, to develop a comprehensive and comprehensive strategy to give the region a boost. This will be an important part of being a regional policy development actor, as we discussed on the previous issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2007	I thank you for your answer. ‘Self-action’: it is about contributing to the process of conversion in which Odda Smelting Works operate, which is both forward-looking and environmentally friendly – if they do – and ensuring other jobs in the region. Let me take the melting plant first. It is clear here that the Council of State trusts that the market will meet all the challenges, and there is talk of general instruments. I think this is too passive. It may not be unexpected by a Right State Council, but it's too passive. On 5 March, the Board of Directors of the melting plant will decide on further operations. One of the options is the decision on the conversion to Finnish chemical production, to which the Council of State referred. This would involve 100 jobs, a reduction in CO2 emissions by 240 000 tonnes and an increase of 350 GWh – i.e. an environmental and industrial happy history, if the country contributes. Then my question is: will the Council of State really be passive, or will she add side dogmatic kepphester and make sure that this is realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2018	SV's commitment to the process industry is new. I would say that the general framework conditions that SV has proposed over many years to provide this type of industry would have led to many of these jobs already being closed down. We have a major challenge in parts of the melting industry in many parts of Norway today. We have many one-sided industrial areas that have problems with these conditions. I have said in my reply that we are assessing environmental benefits in relation to the issue of measures before 2005, and whether the gains at that time will be so high that it justifies a public commitment to make this transition. But there has to be proportionality between how much money you spend on action and what you get from an environmental gain. And we need to go through that. As long as we don't have a special scheme to support this kind of state budget action, it will also be a matter with which we have to come back to the Stortinget with, if the government were to find out that this was a special measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2027	I also thank you for this answer. I am calling for a greater commitment to what is happening in Odda. It's not possible to talk away by somehow blaming SV. But then to other things that have to happen there. The council refers to the fact that this is a conversion municipality, and it is true that a lot of positive has happened there. But what is important in the future is that migration also means opportunities for start-up support, not just for investigation and preparation for new jobs, as it has been at present. I challenge the Council of State to say something about it and the possibilities of extending the transition period. So to another question. My question went to jobs throughout the region, and that also applies to Inner Hardanger. Both the Right and SV have worked to get the entire property directory, the so-called Hardanger Register, to Ullensvang. Now it is planned to place the mortgage register there. But will the Council of State take this up with the Minister of Justice and stand the whole race to get what Right and SV have worked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2038	We have added Inner Hardanger approx. 20 state jobs by saying that the mortgage register is to be established in Ullensvang, a very large establishment of jobs in relation to the number of jobs actually created by the state outside the Oslo area. When it comes to the issue of the model and the whole transfer of this register, it was based on a model that meant that the brokers and banks would take part in the work, which they themselves have announced in the recordings that have come, are not relevant to them. Therefore, at this point in time – although we have not completed all the parts of it – the government has seen it as difficult to implement the entire model that was the basis for the Hardanger Register. I find it difficult to say that a model that is designed should be placed there, if it does not become a cost-effective solution. The model, originally proposed there, was a cost-effective solution, but a quite significant element in the model has fallen out, and then other models will solve this as the correct, cost-effective solution. Therefore, we have seen that it is important to maintain some of the transfer, for example. the mortgage register, to the municipality of Ullensvang.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2049	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘According to a study by the Landsförbund of the Houseowners, the municipal fees for a normal construction procedure vary from DKK 0 to more than NOK 23 000 for an ordinary exclusive dwelling. In addition, the cost of local approval of up to several different actors may amount to around NOK 10000 per house in some municipalities. How does the Council explain the wide variation in municipal building fees, and when will the Government propose changes to the Planning and Building Act?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2058	Building-axle charges are largely subject to the local authority of the municipalities. Section 109 of the Planning and Building Act permits municipalities to charge a fee for work that they are required to do under the Planning and Building Act. A prerequisite for these fees is that they should not exceed their own costs. However, administrative costs may be charged here, but external costs cannot be included. Municipalities can therefore choose whether to charge a fee or not, and they can decide for themselves the amount of the fees within the framework of self-cost. This also applies to the approval of the various responsible undertakings, which are considered as part of the construction process. The Ministry of Local Affairs has made a self-cost calculation guide, and the Municipal Councils’ Central Association has developed a ‘normal regulation’ as the starting point for which municipalities can charge fees. The rates must be determined by the municipalities as mentioned. If a builder considers that the fee exceeds self-sufficiency or is illegal for other reasons, he may appeal to the county council in the same way as he can appeal against other municipal decisions under the Planning and Building Act. The County can also assess the legality of the regulations in its so-called legality control under the municipal law § 59. From the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, we are currently actively working on simplifying and standardising the municipal construction process. It's e.g. a proposal for consultation at the moment on the introduction of deadlines and some other proposals for simplification. Simplification of forms and documentation requirements is actively pursued. There is also work on the introduction of electronic procedures. In addition, in a short time, I will set up a legislative committee to go through the entire building dossier of the planning and building legislation with a view to improvements and simplifications. In addition, this sample shall cooperate with the Plan Law Committee in order to obtain an overall response. Thus, the meaning of the active development work done by the Ministry, municipalities, industries and standardisation is that the municipalities carry out as simple and rational a process as possible. In this way, the process could also be cheaper, and so self-sufficiency could be less than it is today. However, setting the rates under this framework will remain the responsibility of the municipalities themselves. As regards the part of the question of when proposals for amendments to the Law on Planning and Building will be submitted, it is said that a proposal for amendments is out of the way to be consulted. After the announcements we have made to the Stortinget, in June we will be able to promote an odelstningsproposition that is going through the simplifications that we have so far cleared. In addition, there will be further simplifications gradually. However, part of the major review of the evaluation of the Planning and Building Act, and in particular the building reform, will be left to the selection that is now being set up, which will also have the task of seeing whether there is a greater grasp that needs to be made after the building reform in order to get a simpler law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2073	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I must say I was very pleased with. It was no surprise that I received such a positive response, because, as we have seen earlier here at Stortinget, Erna Solberg at the time she was a magnificent representative, has shown that she has had a great understanding of all the unfortunate and negative effects that have been associated with the new planning and building law. This has been a law reform with a lot of frustration and with waste of time, money and forces. And this we have to do something about, there's no doubt about it. I think it should now be possible to do something, and the signals that I got here, as I said, were very pleased with. So the law we've now had has worked for approx. five years, and it should be time to be able to evaluate the adverse effects of the law. In the evening post before Christmas, the Council of State stated that these changes could take effect as of 1 January 2003, i.e. about approx. 10 months. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2084	It depends, of course, on the speed with which the Storting manages to deal with this odelsting proposition. So we have formal rules for how long something is going to be on the hearing. These are major legislative changes and not least affect this many municipalities which have indicated that they will have this three-month consultation period. So if the Storting takes an extra effort in dealing with it after we've had a thorough consultation, we'll be able to make a part of it come into force pretty quickly. It is clear that, if the wholesaler goes through the new year next year, it is unrealistic to bring about the entry into force of legislative changes that have not been adopted. Some of the job here is also due to the question of how long the Storting spends on it. Let me say something about evaluation. We have carried out an evaluation. The implementation evaluation has been carried out and there is an evaluation programme that is now beginning to show results and to provide reports. We have thought that the sample that was then set up should also go into this part of the evaluation and look at what is now the main problem areas. But I think we have also clearly revealed that many municipalities make things more difficult than they need to be, even under the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2091	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, which once again was very positive, from my point of view. For my part, I have been impatient for a long time. I saw from the beginning five years ago – and so far before that time, when this legislative process was in progress – that this would go wrong. And I think that we have solid evidence for today's planning and building law, especially with regard to the building law piece. There have been many things here that have been very negative for both the builders, for the construction operators and for the case handlers in the municipalities. I hope that a thorough, in-depth review is now being carried out – and I could interpret it to a large extent based on the answer I received from the Council of State – of this law, and it has, as I said, been in existence for five years. The Council of State has in its time made proposals in the Grand Duchy on simplification, and I have been involved in simplification proposals myself, so we already know a lot about it. So the work to change the basis, and, as I say, make profound changes – because that's what needs to be – I think absolutely I'm going to wish the Council of State happiness for further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2100	Let me just say that the proposals we have dealt with earlier, at the latest in the Storting last year, are the basis. We then set out the basis for the hearing that we are now having, the proposals that were put forward by the proposals from the Right, to which the Progress Party has also joined, so that this goes slightly beyond the majority of the population at that time agreed. But the population has changed, so there's hope that we can get through the main parts of this. A rather significant instrument for simplification is to get municipalities to standardise and do the same in individual municipalities. That's why the development work we have on BuildSearch is important. We will eventually be able to get a clean electronic treatment if the municipalities want to participate in a scheme here that we are going to start testing from next year, and where we will also have a normalization in terms of how much information is requested. So some of the form fields will be reduced by electronic processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2111	I want to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘From 1994 to 1997, the Army purchased steel containers for almost 300 million. kr. Five years later, new methods for the storage of mobilising material have been found and containers are emptied. Will the Council of State take account of this misstatement so that future military investments will have a slightly longer use time and thus better use of the material?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2120	For approx. 10 years ago, the Storting decided on the treatment of St.meld. No 16 for 1992-1993 a reduction in the Army's war organisation from 13 to 6 brigades and a reduced support structure. Therefore, it was decided that the army’s mobilization material should be stored in containers 25-30 locations around the country. It was then a powerful improvement in efficiency compared to the more than 1,000 stocks we had before. It was a decision adapted to the adopted structure and response capacity when the decision was taken. The background to the choice of container storage was the need for rapid mobilization by easily spreading the material to the assembly sites while achieving maintenance-free storage. Thus, relatively large sums were quickly saved by concluding a series of contracts for the rental of stocks. Based on the treatment by the Storting of the long-term proposal for the period 2002–2005, almost ten years later, the requirement for preparedness and rapid response has changed. For parts of the forces of the Army, material availability and emergency times are now much higher. The frequency of repetition exercises in the defence sectors will be significantly reduced in a new structure and will make cost-effective roll-out of container stock impossible. At the same time, increased emphasis is placed on just cost-effectiveness. Therefore, it is hoped that future mobilisation of material for departments with a longer response time than 90 days will take place according to the house principle. It will be a rational storage method by reducing the number of annual work in the stock organisation and reducing unnecessary costs. In order for the Army to achieve its savings target, the need for mobilisation material and educational material must be seen in the context. Positive operational effects are achieved by co-location of the material as far as possible and in a form of storage that simplifies material handling. The army's changes to stock policy are a natural adjustment to changed assumptions following the adopted long-term proposal and a result of the savings requirements granted to the Defence. I can assure the representative, Mr Bredvold, that, in view of future investments, we are working with a long-term perspective, so that the investments we are making are as rational and correct as possible in relation to the defence structure and response capabilities that apply at all times. Pending the final structure of the defence, no surplus of containers has yet been calculated or the extent to which this will be done. These are luckily standard containers, and if we get a profit, they can be sold on a commercial market and release funds to the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2137	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The problem, as the Progress Party sees it, is that, among other things, Our war plans are changing more and more rapidly. We must be able to give the defense greater predictability, so that the investments/changes the defense makes have a much longer life span than what we experience today. As today's defenses and goals change quickly, this will give us a defense that unfortunately cannot carry out the tasks we impose on the Defense, 100 pst. I hear the Council of State says that the Council of State will work from a long-term perspective. It is then obvious to ask: what is the time period here, when the Council of State in the same section says that this is in accordance with the requirements and the response capacity ‘which applies at all times’?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2146	Here we are facing a difficult balance, because, on the one hand, we want a defence that is adapted to it at all times, and, on the other hand, we want long-term investment. Today's situation is such that reality changes faster than before. Ten years ago, when we reduced the brigade from 13 to 6, it was natural to go down from 1,000 to 25 to 30 storage sites. Now the brigade structure is down to three-four, and it's natural to think new. We also have a completely different response capability requirement. In the past, we had mobilization times of up to six months. Now there are some elements in our Army that should be able to respond in a few days. I think, unfortunately, that we will never get into the situation that we will be without a defense in change. On the contrary, I believe that defence, like industry, must develop change skills and ensure that the investments made can at least be traded in a market when we no longer need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2155	Specifically, back to the question: does the Council of State see that the investments made by the Defence Agency — and especially in such a magnitude as we are talking about here — approx. 300 million. kr – should it be for a longer period than the one we are talking about here? After all, this is all taxpayers' money, and they want and are entitled to receive a cost-benefit of the investments made by the Defense. The belief in a good defense is entitled to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2160	These investments have been well spent on money. We saved significantly on going down from 1000 storage sites to 25-30. The decision was taken for approx. 10 years ago, when we had a completely different defence structure than today. We will still need a number of these containers, not least for the international forces and the forces to be able to quickly set up with materials. If we even get a surplus of these containers, it's too early to say. If we get it, they can be sold. My point is that this was a correct investment when it was made. It was carried out on the basis of economic criteria. We will also continue to ensure that our investments have the longest possible duration, and that the best possible economic thinking is behind them. This does not preclude the fact that we may have to sell things as we get other needs, but then it is to be sold in a market at the best price possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2167	Question 33 has been answered earlier. We're going back to question number. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2175	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The forthcoming elections in Zimbabwe will have many fewer international observers than desired. Among other things, the EU is known outside. Norway has its own education for election observers at the University of Bergen and a solid preparedness group organised by NORDEM. Will the Government ensure that Norway sends more election observers, in the short term, and also ensure the establishment of a corps of human rights observers who can work in Zimbabwe in the long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2184	Norway decided last Friday to increase the number of observers to the Zimbabwe 9 and 10 March elections from 10 to 21 persons, provided that they are given acceptable employment and their safety is fully ensured. All Norwegian electoral observers are now in place. Both the EU, Zimbabwe’s neighbouring country and the opposition in that country have encouraged Norway to maintain its observers — and preferably to increase their number. We've done this. The Norwegian electoral group is the largest Norway ever sent out. In addition, we have allocated considerable resources to support election monitoring under the direction of reputable regional and local non-governmental organisations. We also place great emphasis on promoting human rights in our cooperation with other countries. This also applies to Zimbabwe. Support for non-governmental organisations, the media and the University of Zimbabwe has been the cornerstones of our efforts to strengthen the work of human rights in the country. Such forces are the best guardians of human rights and in many ways constitute a corps of their own national human rights observers. We want to continue this work. The situation in Zimbabwe is now so fragile that it is difficult to assess how the work on human rights will continue after the elections. We must therefore come back to this at a later stage. But in any case, we want to closely interact with non-governmental organisations and other positive forces in Zimbabwe and other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2195	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I am very pleased with the initiative taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs to quickly get in place with new observers. But as the Foreign Minister is probably aware, both Amnesty, Norwegian People's Aid, LO, the Church's Emergency Aid, etc. capable of mobilising competent observers by their own means. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think it would be natural to draw these Norwegian organisations, Norwegian NGOs, into a more long-term human rights work in Zimbabwe precisely because so many signs indicate that there is a very bad situation? If democracy will win after the elections, we may know little about today, but we should ensure a follow-up after any – let's say – irregular elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2202	I think it's right that the questioner suggests that it's now difficult to form a picture of what the situation will be like after the election. I think we're wise to get the election out first and then see to what extent this meets the standards that have to be applied. I think we should wait and see to know how to follow it up in that case. It's quite clear that we're very committed and very concerned about this situation, but I think it's difficult to indicate any operational grip on a situation we don't yet know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2207	Thank you again for a good answer. I have a little question at the end. It has emerged that Norway has financed observers from the surrounding countries, SADC countries, but it has also emerged that, for example, Of the 32 observers from Malawi, 18 were NGOs. Then it turns out once again that they're almost on order from Mugabe, so these aren't real NGOs. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: can Norwegian NGOs participate in and contribute to the region? They may have partners in these countries, so then a real NGO and not just such mercenary democracy could come about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2216	On a general basis, I would say that we would very much like to seek cooperation with NGOs, and I fully agree with the questioner that there should be real NGOs. I don't think I'm going to go into a very concrete assessment of the situation of the Malagasy observers – I don't know about that – but I would like to stress that what we might be working with the NGOs about, we need to come back to when we see the need for cooperation. I think it's very important now to see what kind of choices Zimbabwe is making. The election will come in March, and then we will have a better basis for saying how we will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2225	‘There is a lack of coherence in the WTO system on how to interpret the Doha Ministerial Declaration, 14 November 2001. The declaration is simply not unique and must be parsed. Some point to the need for an explicit consensus before a new and wide round of negotiations is launched. Others claim that, through the Ministerial Declaration, WTO countries have already committed themselves to new negotiations. How will Norway deal with this use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2232	At the WTO Ministerial Conference in Doha, all WTO member countries agreed to launch a new broad round of negotiations. Member States adopted a comprehensive work programme such as: outlines the framework for future negotiations. Among the areas to be negotiated are services, agriculture, access to the market for industrial products, legislation, etc. for anti-dumping, trade and the environment and the follow-up to developing countries’ requirements related to existing contract works. Consequently, there was a consensus in Doha to launch a new broad round of negotiations in the WTO. In addition to these areas, Doha also agreed to start negotiations after the next Ministerial Conference in the four areas: trade procedures, public procurement, trade-to-competitive relations and trade-to-investment. Negotiations in these areas were to begin on the basis of an explicit consensus reached at the next Ministerial Conference on the modalities of these negotiations. It is possible that this is the aspect the representative Elvik aims at in his question. The precise content of the concept of modality will depend on the outcome of the preparation process that is now under way, but this will normally be a guideline for the conduct of the negotiations themselves and a clarification of the issues to be negotiated. In Doha, the Chairman of the Ministerial Conference also outlined his interpretation of the term ‘explicit consensus’. His interpretation was that at the next Ministerial Conference, a decision must be taken with an ‘explicit consensus’ before negotiations on these areas can begin. According to the President, this gives each Member State the right to decide on the modalities, which may prevent negotiations from starting until each Member State is prepared to do so. Whether this will be a issue of dispute at the next Ministerial Conference remains to be seen. This will include, inter alia: depend on the negotiation situation at the time. The key point is that all the 142 WTO member countries in Doha agreed on a new and ambitious round of negotiations, a round specifically designed to safeguard the interests of developing countries. This is something we Norwegian have also put great emphasis on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2247	What the Foreign Minister is now saying is a little contradictory. First he says that one has been merged, and then he points quite correctly to the ‘chairman’s’ statement from Doha, stating that one in Mexico next year needs an ‘explicit consensus’ that one is willing to enter into negotiations. These are two views that are not compatible. There is already some disunity in the WTO about this. In January, the EU and the United States tried to get a text that said one had been agreed in Doha to start negotiations. That is to say, a battle over what is the history of Doha, which is the true story. And then it is not possible, as the Foreign Minister did, to say that both are true. Either you believe one, or you believe the other. I would like to repeat my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: does he only read the Ministerial Declaration, or does he realize that one is forced to stick to the statements of the charterman in Doha?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2254	I think the questioner might be a little too quick when she suggests there's no connection in my answer. That's it! But I went through the different elements of the negotiation package that is now, and underlined the four areas in which it was about the term 'explicit consensus'. That's why I think we're going to be able to get through the processes we're now facing. I hope that Åsa Elvik will be with me in the wish that is, that is, to get these negotiations going, and to get started. Of course, there are considerable demands on the willingness of the parties to be there, and it is clear that that will is present from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2259	I am grateful for the answer and the idea of me as soon as possible. But there is no consensus in the WTO. If it hadn't been for 'cairman's' statements in Doha, India would have gone out of the consensus, and then one would have had the same defeat in Doha as one in Seattle. WTO countries are not identical. That is why it was necessary for the ‘chairman’ to say what he said: it is the next year that we are going to agree on whether or not the negotiations should start. So thank you for being quick, but at least I can read my homework in relation to this. I would like to repeat my question: What role does Norway take in relation to this? Do we choose the EU and the United States side, which says that we have already been united, or do we support India and other developing countries that say that we need to take up some of the Uruguay Round's relations before we can start new negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2268	I am afraid that when the question is repeated, the answer must also be repeated. So I'm referring to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2273	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-27.ana.ud1966e2284	There is no record.
