ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e43	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e54	Today, when Odelstingen is going to deal with a bill on consumer purchases, we are going to deal with a proposal for a law that will affect many people. Most of us act as consumers several times a day. More than 12 million so-called white and brown goods are traded annually in Norway, including washing machine, refrigerator, mobile phone or radio. More than 200 000 such appliances are submitted annually in Norway for repair, which suggests that there is a need for clear rules when the product is first defective. We are also facing a market that has become considerably more aggressive. We are still using new sales channels. In addition, the placing on the market reaches obvious new heights. On some occasions, a silent reflection will contribute to the wish that the purchase would have been completed. Increased consumption and more technical, complex sales goods make us more vulnerable as consumers. In addition, we experience a market that does not always consist of serious operators with decent goods. It is specifically addressed by the lack of response to these laws. Thus, this law, which strengthens consumer rights, will help to make the market more serious and thereby be a law that benefits both the seller and the buyer. It is in everyone's interest to dominate service and quality. The purchase and caste mentality several of us distance from, will not be reinforced by the fact that the consumer is given more power, rather on the contrary. When market players tighten their quality requirements, goods are just prevented from failing after a short period of time. That customers reach e.g. granting greater rights to demand a new product does not, therefore, in the long term mean that more goods are discarded and put out of service. A single justice authority believes that the bill meets the minimum standards of the EU Consumer Purchases Directive – for the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party with one exception, to which I will return. The law simplifies the legal image and makes it easier to find the rules that apply to the consumer. In the view of the Workers' Party, it would have been desirable to include several rules on adjacent areas, such as: a right of withdrawal applicable today to certain types of purchases. As the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, there is reason to rejoice that an overall justice policy is in line with the main features of the bill. There is therefore a cross-political agreement on the strengthening of consumer rights at present. The bill goes far in the consumer-friendly direction. The consumer can react when the product is defective, providing consumers with a clearly better protection than before. The consumer’s right to require repair or replacement strengthens the obligation of the seller. The requirement for the replacement item after one week in case of rectification also gives the customer a better situation. The claim to cancel the purchase in the event of defective delivery has been lowered, and this must be significant in the legal handling of the cancellation claim. It is clear that the consumer has two and five years of warranty, respectively, but that he or she must respond as soon as possible when the defect becomes effective. Furthermore, it shall be easier to identify a deficiency. The Labour Party and SV ask the Ministry to consider the rules governing the dispute resolution mechanisms in the consumer buying cases, in particular with regard to the competence of those bodies and the possibility for the consumer to bring his case. In the cases where the consumer, for example: where the professional party brings the case before the judicial system, it is appropriate to consider whether the consumer should have an automatic right of free action. In several such cases, the consumer refrains from proceeding in fear of excessive costs. All parties support the Government’s initiative to set up a working group to look at consumer protection rules on electricity and that power purchases should be subject to the law in the long term. The concept of consumers in the Consumer Purchases Act shall, in the view of the majority, cover only natural persons and the proposal also includes a narrowing of the concept of the right of withdrawal. This is what we in the Workers' Party, and also SV, disagree with. We therefore propose to include certain associations. Certain associations also have a real need for consumer protection, and it would be unreasonable in such a context if the provisions of the Consumer Purchases Act were not to apply. In cases where, for example: a housing law, sports law, non-profit institutions or associations acquire goods jointly for the common use of the participants, a discount as well as other economies of scale can be achieved — environmentally friendly as well. However, there is no reason for these purchases to be subject to a different rule of law than to regular purchases, rather than to the contrary. It is therefore not a successful solution that the majority now justify their position that these rules can be circumvented by the fact that a single natural person is a buyer. Making a new law where you immediately point to opportunities for circumvention can't represent any lucky lawmaking! Whereas there is unanimity in the Committee on the strengthening of consumer protection by enabling the consumer to choose between correction or replacement where the sale item is defective; There is also agreement on the right of the customer to a replacement item after seven days of repair. However, this does not imply requiring the repair to be done until seven days have passed, as some have claimed in the debate. For the Workers' Party, the law on the exchange right has been central to the work on the law. We regret that only the Socialist Left is with us on this proposal. A right to exchange goods for money or other goods should now be statutory even if the goods have no defect. Such a right of exchange is currently common practice among several retailers of certain product groups. However, there is uncertainty, and several sellers admit not to allow the buyer to exchange. In the case of particularly aggressive marketing, it would be reasonable to allow the customer to change his mind, at least in relation to the goods he has purchased. As long as the contractual partners can agree otherwise, we will propose a general exchange right as a starting point for consumer purchases. It shouldn't be very dangerous. This is something the sellers can agree on, after the views of the Workers' Party and SV. These parties also propose several amendments which have so far not received the support of others. By removing the possibility of so-called ‘as-is’ purchases or ‘as-is’ purchases, we want to clarify the purchase situation and at the same time strengthen the seller’s obligation to investigate and disclose information. One should not be able to waive due diligence by selling the thing as it is. There is good reason to raise the question of this access to a general discharge may be contrary to the EU Consumer Purchases Directive Article 7(1). A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Socialist Left Party, the Progress Party and the Labour Party, also wants the Government to come back with legislative proposals on the issuing of so-called guarantees, which are mainly only suitable for confusing consumers, and sometimes also restricting their rights, and which are particularly widespread. It is important to clarify the rules here, and Swedish legislation has just worked out the course here. We also want restrictions on the use of prepayments in the case of consumer purchases, and we propose a ban with some exceptions. It is also gratifying that professional intermediaries should be responsible for defective goods, and that this brings together a majority, even though the Right and Christian People's Party does not seem to support this. The adoption of a new Consumer Purchases Act strengthens the rights of all of us consumers. Only the days ahead will show whether the law is being used effectively. It requires knowledge. We need that. The government has a significant information task on the content of the new law. The unanimity that the main content of the law will have here today will, in my opinion, be a good basis for the law to be effective, both on the seller's side and on the buyer's side. The market deserves it. Finally, I would like to mention the proposals made in the vote by the Socialist Left and the Labour Party in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e99	Knut Storberget has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e102	Until today, contracts for sale by traders to consumers have been regulated by the Sale of Goods Act. The new legislative proposal adopted today distinguishes consumers from consumers for their own regulatory purposes. These proposals strengthen the rights of consumers in the event of a breach of contract by the seller. As a general rule, the purchaser will have the right to choose between the correction or the re-delivery due to the deficiency. If the seller does not implement this in accordance with the law, the purchaser may instead demand a price reduction or cancellation. I would like to stress that there is a strong need for clear rules in the purchase between professionals and consumers. The current consumer situation, with an increasing market pressure, new sales channels, increased consumption and more technologically oriented consumer goods, calls for increased consumer protection. Information on the laws and regulations applicable to the purchase and sale of goods is an important public liability. The new law should therefore be properly marketed, since, in particular, consumers who are economically and knowledgeally weaker than a professional seller are in the first place. There is an understanding that in some cases it will be difficult for the consumer to take up the fight with a trader in the legal system. However, free legal assistance in the consumer field could create many unnecessary conflicts. The best thing will be emphasising information on the laws of consumers and the sellers' side. In addition, consumer organisations are mentioned to speak and follow up consumer rights, which in their work contribute to alleviating possible conflicts. Questions have been asked about the right of withdrawal to be included in the Consumer Purchases Act. In my view, it would be problematic to incorporate the right of withdrawal into the Consumer Purchases Act because the right of withdrawal law today includes services in addition to things. The law on the right of withdrawal also covers all contract law in Norwegian law, and thus has a far wider scope than the Consumer Purchases Act. The Proposition points out that contract law has a fragmentary regulatory framework directly resulting from EU adaptation. The question of the inclusion of the right of withdrawal as part of the Consumer Purchases Act must therefore be the result of a review of the entire contract law. At the same time, it would therefore make sense to look at contract law in the light of developments in the EU. During the hearings, some bodies of the seller’s side pointed out the unfairness of the seller’s having to make corrections within one week of the date of the complaint. The impropriety depends very much on how curative an item is. If goods are available in stock near the point of sale, this would not cause any particular problems. The problems will arise if the product is found in a remote storage, e.g. abroad. Nevertheless, in the minority of cases, regardless of distance or proximity, suppliers will be able to bring the goods to the consumer within the set time limit. However, the consumer must be given greater weight in this respect. It may be as great a disadvantage for the consumer not to have the goods, as for the seller to provide a replacement item. In the majority of cases, the seller will be able to obtain a replacement item either through his own warehouse or, where appropriate, from other sellers nearby. It has been a wish on the part of the Workers' Party that the scope of the Act should also apply when consumers are sports teams, school corps and other types of non-governmental organisations. This will create difficult demarcation problems for the scope of the law. Where on the scale between the professionally driven football elite team with millions on the market and a small sports fishing team in the Outer Oslofjord shall the limit go? Nothing in the Labour Party's proposal emphasizes this. In most cases, it would be unfair for a professional, commercial elite club to claim consumer rights. The scope of the law sets a clear limit on the physical person today, which has given few, if any, interpretation problems. Between these club members there are many associations and teams that would create many demarcation problems in the law, and there could soon be unnecessary conflict situations. Interpretation problems would also arise as to the size and extent of the business to be covered by the Consumer Purchases Act. The best way to ensure consumer protection for non-governmental organisations, such as sports teams and school music bodies, is to conclude the contract in one of the names of the members or to agree with the seller that the purchase is to be made on consumer terms. Limiting the scope of the law to natural persons only makes it easier to harmonise related laws, such as the Product Control Act, the Consumer Dispute Act, the Consumer Goods Marking Act, the Credit Purchase Act, the Crafts Service Act, the Disposal Act, the Housing Entry Act and the Right of Withdrawal Act. With regard to the proposal of the majority to render professional intermediaries jointly and severally liable in the same way as consumers, they are neither supported by the Ministry nor by the Consumer Purchases Committee. It may seem that the majority want to complicate the law unnecessarily. In my opinion, it is completely unnecessary to make the consumer completely irresponsible for his own actions and to make a legal misappropriation of who actually sold the product. This would violate the general principles of an intermediary’s position in Norwegian law. The use of experts during buying negotiations between the actors can be a strength for both parties, regardless of whether the buyer or the seller has organised the intermediary’s presence. The expert may provide useful knowledge of the nature of the product, which may be of benefit to both parties, in particular: in the case of second-hand car purchases. Giving the same legal force to the expert in such contexts would complicate the possible legal after-effects unnecessarily. Most people know that buying goods outside of a fixed point of sale, by e.g. a private operator carries greater risks and lower guarantee obligations for the buyer than when buying with a trader. Setting the limit when such an expert is an expert or professional intermediary will be extremely difficult in retrospect. It must be such that two parties must be able to conclude a contract of purchase and sale without any joint responsibility for the sale being given to experts present. There has been a discussion during the consultation round and in the preparation of the law on electric current to be covered by the Consumer Purchases Act. Today, supplies of oil and gas – and water will be – are subject to the Consumer Purchases Act. In my opinion, it would be pointless not to include electricity as part of this law. Current currently represents a significant cost to the consumer. Today, the power supply is deregulated, with great competition between power suppliers. There is also no reason to delimit the network part from being subject to the Consumer Purchases Act. Although it has been largely governed by state rules and leadership, the electricity suppliers also invoice and operate this part. Therefore, it would be illogical and inconsistent not to include the network part in line with the power supplies, as part of the Consumer Purchases Act. For consumers, the components contained in the bill are largely irrelevant. The most important thing for the customer is the total amount of the bill. Digital services are also becoming increasingly widespread. It is also a proposal to incorporate these into the Consumer Purchases Act. The working party and SV propose to limit the use of advance payments to specific cases only. It would be unfortunate, almost absurd, if the buyer and the seller were deprived of the possibility to enter into voluntary contracts for advance payments in a free market. It is claimed from the Workers' Party and SV that advance payments are increasingly being used. This is not the case. The trend in Norway in the last 15 years is opposite. More and more customers are buying goods on credit. In recent years more and more settlement councils and debt collection agencies have received a larger volume of commission as a result of the opposite, namely a lack of payments to the seller. Giving the consumer reduced obligations does not increase the consumer’s primary consumer awareness. The law must be so balanced that the seller is given an opportunity to collect parts of the purchase price before the goods are delivered, in particular in the case of large and complex deliveries. Anything else would embarrass the seller and cause very small traders to refuse to trade certain types of goods. This could in the long term lead to sales monopolies which, at least, do not benefit the consumer. Legislation must provide for a diverse and wide-ranging offer to the consumer before making a purchase decision. For this reason, the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV will work against its intention: in the short term, it will strengthen the consumer at the expense of the seller, in the long term monopolising the market for expensive and labour-intensive goods. Another element that the Workers' Party and SV want to remove is the right to sell a product as it is. It has been a practice in this country since the time of horticulture to sell the product ‘as it is’. Today, perhaps flea markets and auctions are the places where such sales are most often made. The working party and SV call it ‘to confuse’ the operators when a product is sold as it is. Personally, I think the term is a little confusing. As a consumer, you buy the goods as they actually are – often used and worn and at a low price. It is even the case that many people experience such places as the place where I made a coup. Implementing the Workers' Party and the SV's policies in this area would mean that many teams and organisations' hard-to-required incomes could be cut by the sluices of the fine light. It must still be possible for most of us to understand when you go to auctions in particular, that the goods are of poorer quality and often more uncertain than at a normal point of sale. In addition, we have averted a future environmental problem that would have resulted in a quantity of white and brown products being scrapped as a result of an absolute right of resuscitation for the customer, cf. Article 29 The proposed section of the law, which would give the consumer the right to demand new goods, could help to strengthen the use and caste mentality of society, which would have been very unfortunate. There would be considerable consequences for mass-produced goods with manufacturing errors on entire series. In this case, the consumer could in the worst case rely on exchange, with the result that, for example: Thousands of cars and refrigerators had to be scrapped. Just a few days ago, we had an example where Honda would fix an ignition error of 6,000 cars in Norway. The customer would be able to demand new goods by hand with the law. It's a concern from an environmental point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e137	I do not want to go as far as the representative Dybevig is now doing in describing the Government's proposal, that it will almost create an environmental disaster. We are in favour of the Government's proposal and believe that it also takes good account of environmental concerns. But since Dybevig was quite scratched in his description of our proposals, I could imagine, when we talk about intermediaries, saying that it is argued that it would relieve the consumer of significant liability. That's not the responsibility we're talking about in this context. After all, we are talking about what responsibility we should place on the sales side, not the question of consumer responsibility. With regard to the scope of the law, that it should be limited to compliance with other laws in the field and that it does not include housing law and its equivalent, it is incorrect. The right of withdrawal law has until now had this provision, and as I understand it, it has not been very difficult to apply it. It is not true that the Workers' Party is in favour of general free legal assistance in such cases. What we're saying is that the question is whether we should not consider giving free legal aid to those who have won the Consumer Dispute Committee, where the professional rich party brings it into the justice system. But what is important, and which I ask the representative of Carsten Dybevig, is: does the representative of Dybevig not see that it would be reasonable to give the consumer free legal aid, since he is forced into the legal system with your two costs, despite having won a professional and publicly reduced consumer dispute selection? It is then the view of the Workers' Party and the SV that it should be considered that it is possible to provide free legal assistance. I ask Dybevig on the basis of these principles and premises to consider whether that will not be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e144	The Working Party notes that there are many areas that are very confusing to consumers. I would say that when the Workers' Party describes selling a product like it is, as confusing, as well as expanding it in relation to natural persons, at least I would call it confusing in relation to interpretation problems that will result from having a larger group than purely natural persons here. It must then be easier to deal with purely natural persons than to start dealing with different teams and associations. The easiest way for teams and associations is, of course, to have the opportunity to agree with the seller that the sale should be made under the terms of the consumer. As regards the relationship with the environment, I believe that both the Workers' Party and the SV in their proposal are very hostile to the environment. This is helping to increase the use and caste mentality of society, which I think is very unfortunate. Of course, as I said, it will also have major consequences for mass-produced goods with manufacturing errors on entire series. In fact, with the proposal of the Workers' Party, the consumer may rely on exchange, with the result that, for example: thousands of refrigerators, cars, etc. must be scrapped. Just a few days ago, we had an example where Honda would fix an ignition error of 6,000 cars in Norway. In this case, the customer would be able to demand a replacement and a new product with the law – the letter of the law. Providing the seller with the opportunity to repair the product at the time of the first complaint may help to reduce the number of items that are scrapped and destroyed. It must be a goal for us that the most items are repaired, so that they can be used longer. Government parties have paid particular attention to the consideration of the environmentally sound practice of the Consumer Purchases Act. It is an advantage for all of us as consumers in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e154	Does this mean that the representative Dybevig believes that his own government is environmentally hostile? The point is that we are on the proposal originally put forward by the Government, which is put forward in the belief that more durable goods will be obtained in the long term, which is environmentally friendly precisely because energy use is falling, and because less goods are scrapping as they become more durable. I find it strange that the representative Dybevig characterizes us that way, at least if at the same time he thinks that his own government is environmentally friendly. I would like to remind you that it is also reserved in the proposal that has been tabled. So it's not that the consumer in any case gets an unconditional right to demand a replacement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e159	I will answer no to the question from Inga Marte Thorkildsen. The government we now have, with the state council that Børge Brende is, in the environmental protection chair, is the most environmentally friendly government Norway has ever had. In fact, SV has joined the government parties on climate policy for Norway. This government and the Great Britain have now decided as their first country to approve the Kyoto Protocol and the initiative taken there. But when there are proposals that we believe are harmful to the environment, we are, of course, willing to correct them. We have taken into account the consultations that have taken place and made the necessary improvements in relation to environmental protection organisations, among others. Bellona, has said about the new Consumer Purchases Act. And I don't think that's a bad policy. That is a good policy, and it is absolutely necessary. We have to listen to the outside world. We can't be completely blind, and I would say there's no connection between the claim of None Marte Thorkildsen and the work that we're doing here in Stortinget. We had to – it was absolutely necessary – make the changes we made on the basis of the consultations that have been held. After all, those consultations were not ahead of the bill when it came to the Storting. They've come in retrospect, and then we're willing to listen and be willing to do something about it. I think that is a good environmental policy. If we can contribute to the consumer's longer circulation of the goods, that they are not scrapped and thrown, I think that is good environmental policy, and that is why we support the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e164	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e168	A purchase typically involves two parties agreeing that one procures a good and that it is handed over to the other for payment. Based on general contract law, in which one decides which agreements a signatory to the contract, most of the time should be a simple matter. Nevertheless, one sees that the balance is not always entirely satisfactory in the case of consumer purchases, where the seller has sales as his profession under this contract, and a buyer is a single citizen who is going to use the goods in his household. It is important to find the balance here, too, in the case of consumers. If a person goes too far in misguided help to the consumer, this so-called help means that consumers are generally charged through higher prices. The objective is to provide consumers with the protection and opportunity to assert their rights. It is essential that infringements of agreements and defects in goods are subject to clear and effective penalties. Now the rules on the purchase of consumers are separated into their own law. The crucial thing is not whether relationships are based on a separate law or a common law, but it may help ordinary people to find out their rights and duties in a simpler way. And if this is an effect, it's positive. The major change in the legal status compared to the previous law is that the consumer is given an unconditional right to return if there is a defect in the goods. In the past, the seller was able to intercept the delivery by correcting it, but this is now only possible to a limited extent. This strengthens the position of consumers, but may lead to a large parallel market, where the losses of the seller are similar to the general prices. This is an EU adaptation, and in this context there is no need to spend a lot of time on this issue. The adjustment made in Section 29 of the Committee will prevent a very unfortunate situation in which the unfairness of the other side can be eliminated. In fact, a situation with very much and perhaps unnecessary redundancy could also have an environmental aspect. One important thing for the consumer when buying is the information that the consumer receives. Against this background, there is a need to see the need for a clearer management of this with guarantees. Most people would think that guarantees are part of the agreement, and not just a marketing gimmick. It would then be natural for a breach of a statutory and marketable guarantee to mean that the contract cannot be considered to have been duly fulfilled. I hope the government is reasonably quick in dealing with this issue. This is an area where the marketing law applies, but that law does not confer any rights on the consumer who is a party to the contract. Rules of law without penalties for the party concerned are insufficient. The fact that the public can say "fy", "fy" or "fy" or "fy" does not help the consumer who has a product that does not satisfy what you would think was a product with the market guarantee. A small but important case relates to the conditions in which a good is being continuously prepared and the goods are to be delivered as the parts are completed. Lexicon and other books are a good example of this. If a person has the opportunity to offer such products in Norway in Norwegian, developed in Norway, he cannot come into a situation where a right of withdrawal only starts to run several years after the first partial delivery. Of course, it is assumed in such a situation that it is possible to get a correct picture of the whole product at the time of the first partial delivery. It would also be appropriate here for the Government to follow up the majority proposal as quickly as possible in order to be able to submit proposals for a comprehensive Consumer Purchases Act as early as possible. Another matter that could create confusion is the purchase by a professional intermediary. Here it will often appear as if it is the middleman who is the real seller. In that case, the consumer should be able to do so unless the intermediary specifically informs of the real relationship with the consumer. It would be strange if a seller sold a car even when selling it and at the same time wanted to distribute a car as an intermediary, and then the consumer's rights would depend on whether he randomly chose one or the other car. It must be assumed that a professional seller knows what he is communicating. At the same time, the proposal will give an intermediary the right to inform the consumer of his position, so that he is not in agreement with the actual seller. So the crucial thing here is information, not disclaimer. If a consumer is informed by the intermediary that he is only an intermediary, only a intermediary and thus is not jointly and severally responsible with one who is the real seller, yes, he does not get to become jointly and severally responsible. But one must inform the consumer about the facts in advance. So it's just where one doesn't provide this information, or where one chooses not to provide this information, that one actually becomes jointly and severally responsible. In any case, an intermediary would of course be able to assert recourse to the real seller if the intermediary of a buyer, i.e. a consumer, is held responsible for a defect in the goods. The legislative proposal, as it now stands, will give consumers a stronger right, but at the same time it will have the balance that is necessary to admit, in fact, that there are small sellers without huge back support devices. It may also be that if you want to avoid monopoly formations on the seller's side, with the unfortunate outcome it may have for consumers, you must also allow new people to establish themselves as sellers, and then they must also be able to have viable conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e185	I'm going to do this very briefly, because there's no point in repeating words for words what has previously been said by Knut Storberget's side. But I thought I would take advantage of the opportunity to praise both the department and the case rapporteur, Storberget, for the work done on this matter. I fully agree with what Storberget has said, and let this be a short post – to the delight of many, I expect. SV and the Workers' Party agree on comments and proposals for provisions of the new Consumer Purchases Act. We believe it is particularly important now to clarify and make this law visible, as consumers are facing an increasingly strong purchasing pressure, and as it is difficult for many to find out what their rights are. We also believe that the sellers will benefit from these clarifications. We think it is a pity that the majority rejected several of the department's own proposals and would prefer them to be on the department's side. SV believes that the Consumer Ombudsman and the Consumer Council have done a very good job as consulting bodies for the proposal for a new Consumer Purchases Act. The increased focus on consumer problems in an unbridled market, including: through TV programmes such as the FBI, and on the initiative of the Consumer Ombudsman, strengthen our belief that it is important to get through the changes proposed by the Ministry and the proposals put forward by the Workers' Party and the SV in this setting. In conclusion, I would just like to say that I expect the department to provide extensive information on the new law as soon as it comes into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e196	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e199	Fortunately, the majority are in favour of incorporating digital benefits into the Consumer Purchases Act. Now we know that there are a lot of young people who are Internet users, and there are a lot of young people who buy over the Internet. There is currently no consumer safety for users buying via the Internet. SV always claims to be responsible for the rights of young people and to work for young people. This may often mean that young people are perceived as a very weak group — in itself a very stigmatizing characteristic, which SV often uses. Then I am very surprised that Inga Marte Thorkildsen and SV are not in favour of the proposal that the majority here is in favour of. It is in my opinion to oppose strengthening the rights of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e204	This is not a proposal that has been tabled, but it is a comment. As far as I know, at least when you buy via the Internet, you are already covered by consumer protection today. However, we can come back to this if we are able to define ‘digital performance’ in a constructive and good way, if it was in a proposal. But at least it is my clear belief that this is already included in today's consumer protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e209	I never thought I would experience that SV, who profile itself as the environmental party and the youth party, was going to be a champion for large goods to be scrapped in the Norwegian market because of the legislation that is coming. After all, the proposal for SV and the Workers' Party deprives the seller of the opportunity to correct when an error has been made on a product. So you can swap and transfer right away. This will create a scrapping problem, an environmental problem. The working party and SV describe in many places in their comments that it is confusing for the consumer both on the one hand and on the other. I would like to say to me that it is confusing that SV runs such an environmental profile when environmental organisations, among other things. Bellona, has strongly recommended that we should not follow SV's policy in this regard. I would like to say once again: SV claims to be environmentally friendly – in the party programme, on TV, out in public, but when it comes to practical policy, there is nothing left of that environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e214	Is ‘in the name of heaven’ a parliamentary expression? - No, I don't use it! I don't understand what the representative Dybevig means. So now we've been through this round -- I was just saying -- twice already. We're on the government's, or the department's, proposal for a new change. I can only understand that the representative Dybevig believes that his own government is completely environmentally hostile, because that is what he is now saying about us, which is on the proposal that the department actually promoted. And if we go into the text itself, we see that the difference goes on ‘in particular’, whether it is to ‘pay particular attention to the value of’, etc., or whether it is to ‘pay attention to the value of’, etc., on which we stand. This is not about having the opportunity to repair one thing, it is not about excluding the seller from all rights, but it is about tightening up that we believe will in the long term lead to more goods being better, more durable. Everybody makes it, not least the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e221	It is only then that we find that the representative is entitled to say that 'in the name of heaven' is not a parliamentary expression. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e226	I don't think it's a theological expression either. [[muttering in the hall]] That is an important law we are adopting today. There are hardly any people in this country who are not affected by the provisions of the Consumer Purchases Act. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has presented this bill. It will make it easier for the consumer to know what rules he or she has to deal with. It becomes simpler precisely because many provisions are brought together in one law, and it must be a goal that everything relating to consumer purchases will be brought together under the same law in the long term. It may take time, and it's not safe for us to do it, but it has to be our goal. In other words, ‘Simplify Norway’ also applies in this area. I'll be careful to mention certain themes. The law provides for a certain strengthening of the consumer's rights. That's right and good. The rapporteur, Mr Storberget, has, with the support of the SV, proposed some changes which could perhaps be said to strengthen the position of the consumer even more, e.g. in relation to the question of the right of exchange and advance payment. Although the consumer's interests are of course important, we must, however, maintain a certain balance between the seller's rights and the consumer's obligations. One could risk that, by giving the consumer too strong a position, the legislator actually limits the consumer's possibilities in the long term, because the situation for the seller becomes too difficult. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes that there should be an important need before a situation is regulated, and it may seem that this does not always exist, for example. on the question of advance payments. It is also important to bear in mind that the seller and the consumer can actually contract conditions that give the consumer a better position than he has under the law. There is no unrealistic possibility that this will happen. The Christian People's Party believes that the right balance has been found in this law, and we are satisfied with that. So who's a consumer? The Ministry has proposed a clear and straightforward delineation supported by the Christian People's Party: a consumer is a natural person. The Christian People's Party sees that it may be reasonable for others to have the same rights as the Consumer Purchases Act gives you and me, for example. school corps and sports organisations, i.e. non-profit institutions serving households. But let me then stress that there is nothing wrong with this issue being resolved by the purchase by one of the members. It is also important to bear in mind that it is actually possible to agree that the rules of the Consumer Purchases Act apply even if the purchase is not actually a consumer purchase. Another definition, as proposed by the majority, creates more confusion. It's unfortunate again for consumers. When the same definition of consumers — ‘physical persons’ — remains throughout the legislation, it will be possible to simplify the legislation in a comprehensive way. We in the Christian People's Party think that is positive. There is reason to point out that this simplification of rules will not weaken the protection of the consumer. It is not every sale to individuals that is defined as consumer purchase. It requires a trader on the other side of the table. Purchases and sales between two individuals are therefore not included. The background for this is quite simple: there is a different strength relationship between a trader and a private individual than between two individuals. Then comes the question: shall a professional intermediary who sells a sale be directly liable to the buyer in the same way as the seller does? In that case, the purchaser would have two persons be responsible for the performance of the contract itself. Neither the Ministry nor the Consumer Purchases Committee thought this would be right. There is a breach of the general principles of Norwegian law on the position of an intermediary if such a provision was to be introduced now. The Christian People's Party has noted that there is no sufficient need for such a provision to date. The fact that they have such a provision in Sweden is not enough to create the same need in Norway. It is not the case that if this provision is not introduced, the consumer will stand in a non-judicial position. The private seller attaches itself to a professional seller when the seller uses a professional intermediary. An important theme in the work on this law has been the subject of consumer purchasing rules. Paragraph 1 gives a general provision: the law applies to the sale of goods to a consumer when the seller or the seller’s representative engages in business. In concrete terms, Section 2 states that some areas should be covered by the law, while others should not be covered. The Ministry proposed, inter alia: that the purchase of works, the supply of water and the purchase of claims and rights shall be governed by law, but shall not apply, inter alia, to: the purchase of real estate and the supply of electrical power. The exact point of electrical power has been much debated. The sample proposed that electricity should be covered by the law. However, the European Consumer Purchases Directive excludes electricity. The Ministry entered into the consultation note that contracts for the supply of electricity should be covered by the Consumer Purchases Act. The hearing bodies were very divided in their views on the proposal, and the ministry concluded that a sample should be set up to look at this in particular. The question about the purchase of electricity concerns two aspects: network rental and the ordering of electricity. You can imagine that both are to be covered by the law, or that one is to be covered and the other is not. The network is subject to monopoly and is strictly regulated, so the need here may not be so great. With regard to the supply of electricity, the market is currently open to competition. Initially, the Christian People's Party believes that there are many good reasons why streaming should also be covered by law, which is reflected in the full review given in the proposition. We believe it is appropriate to consider whether both the rental of the network and the ordering of electricity should be included. Not least because both oil and gas are covered by the law, it may be natural that electricity is also included. The Christian People's Party believes that it makes sense to look at these issues and therefore supports the Ministry's proposal to set up a sample to look at them. Another important and difficult theme is digital performance. Then we think of both the purchase of goods and services via the Internet, which is initially covered by the existing legislation, and the purchase of digital benefits provided online from one computer system to another. In this case, it is primarily the last variant to be discussed. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, there is no reason why the consumer should not enjoy the same protection when purchasing digital benefits as when purchasing other purchases. In this area, too, special rules are raised because the goods are of a substantially different nature from those otherwise covered by the Consumer Purchases Act. However, we want the Government to assess this in parallel with the power question. As regards electronic commerce, there is a need for adjustments and clarifications to the general legislation. The government will come up with a bill on electronic commerce pretty soon, and there will be a lot of questions here. It's e.g. a problem that in some cases services are provided on the network where there is uncertainty as to who has purchased the goods or service from, brokering or producer. That's why it's important to get a review of this. Prepayment has been another theme where there has been disagreement. The Christian People's Party has noticed the recordings from e.g. The Consumer Ombudsman seeking a prohibition. But neither the sample nor the ministry have found that there is any need for a law ban on advance payments. In fact, there may be a need for advance payments sometimes, for example. when the seller has poor experience of the buyer’s ability to pay/will, or where the performance of the contract requires specific preparation by the seller. So even though there's room for different assessments here, the Christian People's Party is going in to support the ministry's proposal. There has also been a disagreement about the exchange right. Here, too, neither the sample nor the ministry considers that there is any need to legislate for the right to exchange a product. Experience suggests that most people get replaced the goods they want to exchange. The legalisation of the exchange right would result in many difficult limitations. Should the agreement that the exchange right should not apply be in writing, or may it be oral? Can it be given individually to each customer, or can it apply in general? For some industries, exchange rights are unproblematic, for others, the consequences will be greater. The Christian People's Party believes that the industries should at least be given the opportunity to comment on the exchange right before any such change is introduced. But we also believe that there is no need to regulate areas where there is no need for regulation. That is why we support the view of the department. In the case of non-compliance, the current situation is somewhat confusing. The general rule is that the purchaser must advertise no later than two years after he/she took over the item. For things that are meant to last significantly longer than two years, the deadline is five years. Once the deadline has expired, the purchaser can no longer advertise, the deadline is absolute. The Christian People's Party considers it strange that a product with a life expectancy of three to four years should be able to be advertised if an error occurs when the product is four years and ten months. It's not fair with such a rule. The five-year period for lodging claims should apply to goods with a estimated life span of five years and more. That's why we're asking the Department to take a special look at this relationship. We also have the buyer's claim in relation to defects. This with the exchange right has been mentioned by others, and I will not go into it further. I also want to comment on an area in which the majority of the committee has been involved, the special cases of goods where the goods are delivered in parts. These include: on bookshelf. We don't want people to be prevented from getting a lexicon this way, so we're in favour of what others have said before.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e285	I am very pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal for a new Consumer Purchases Act, which will enter into force on 1 July 2002. The legislative decision is a follow-up to NOU 1993: 27 Consumer Purchases Act, and Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of consumer purchases and related guarantees. Parts of the Guarantees Directive have been followed up by amendments to the Marketing Act on a proposal from the Ministry of Children and the Family of Ot.prp. No 43 for 2001-2002, discussed by the Innst Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs. O. No 48 for 2001-2002. Although the Consumer Purchases Act is to a large extent a continuation of the existing law, on many important points the law provides for enhanced consumer protection. I am, among other things, pleased that the Committee supports the Government’s proposal to simplify the rules on compensation, more transparent and better rules on compensation, a provision on the right to compensation, the adjustment of the rules on cancellation and refusal of prices, and a better case-by-case position for the consumer in the assessment of deficiencies. A separate Consumer Purchases Act in itself provides for enhanced consumer protection and can be seen in the context of the Government's work on simpler legislation. The law requires that the rules on consumer purchases which were previously part of the Sale of Goods Act be separated by a separate law, which makes it easier for the consumer to inform himself about his legal position. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to design the consumer concept. The concept of consumer is given clearer content on the proposal, which will improve predictability of the parties to the contract relationship and contribute to simpler regulation. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the harmonisation of the concept of consumer in other relevant legislation that such design of the consumer concept facilitates. Such harmonisation would give a uniform concept of consumers in the legislation in question. Today, the concept of consumers varies in different laws, which is clearly unfortunate. In my view, it is also a significant advantage in relation to international legislation and cross-border trade that we can operate with the most uniform and clear concept of consumers. A majority of the Committee has proposed a rule on purchasing liability through a professional intermediary. I would like to point out that such a rule has not been proposed in the proposal, pointing out that the proposal involves a breach of general principles on the position of an intermediary in Norwegian law. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Department's proposal on advance payments, including the proposal that the purchaser should not be bound by so-called conversion clauses. In my view, the minority's proposal for a general ban on advance payments appears unclear, which confirms my assessment of the difficulties associated with the delimitation of such a ban. As far as exchange rights are concerned, I am very pleased that the majority of the committee supports the assessments contained in the proposal. I would like to point out to the minority that the industry has been very flexible in accepting the replacement of goods for customers. I'm concerned that you keep the flexibility in the system. My impression is that the legal state of the day is satisfactory. People in practice get changed goods when needed, and the goods are suitable for it. With regard to the minority's proposal that the Consumer Purchases Act should also apply to contracts concluded before the law enters into force, I would point out that such a scheme, as I see it, raises questions in relation to the Basic Law Section 97. In my opinion, when the minority refers to the Financial Contracts Act and the Insurance Contracts Act, this seems to be a poor example, as the contractual relationships under these laws are ongoing and thus of a completely different nature than under the Consumer Purchases Act. I also show that the Financial Contracts Act has a very complicated set of transitional rules. In general, I would like to say that this law will strengthen consumers' rights in several areas. Although there has been a debate on single points, I have to say that what the Storting is doing here is, through these legislative proposals, just doing what has been intended, namely to strengthen consumers in the best possible way. However, I would like to make one general comment, and that is that if you drive the details for the benefit of consumers too far, you might have unintended effects on the seller's hand that can drive the relationship towards monopolisation, which in the next round could lead to the consumer actually paying higher prices. In this balancing process, I think that the committee position will solve this in an excellent way, and that the overall strengthening of consumer rights to which it has been proposed will be implemented at the Committee's decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e312	The representatives of Hofstad and Dybevig have turned to the great heights, especially when it comes to questions of action on the Internet. I don't know if you've put out the safety net, but it makes me ask the Minister of Justice if it's such that the department is in line with these representatives that buying and selling on the Internet is not covered by this law. Both the notes and what has been said here in the hall will be able to form such an impression, and in this way will be unfortunate in terms of how to understand this law. The background to the fact that we have reserved ourselves in the Workers' Party – and in particular SV – against this remark, is that one can understand it so that it is not covered by this law, which I do not understand. So I would like to ask the Minister of Justice for clarification on this question: when you – young people, who were mentioned by the representative of Hofstad – act on the Internet, do you get protection from this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e317	The law must cover it, but it also requires its own work, which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will be responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e322	I just have to arrest the Council of State on one point. This applies to advance payments. I understood that the Council of State said that the SV and the Workers' Party are in favour of a general ban on advance payments. That's not the case. What we agree on is that it can only be agreed if there are specific reasons the seller can document. Such specific reasons would exist if the seller needed financing in order to complete the product, or because of time reasons or the nature of the product, it would be reasonable to make advance payments. The reason for this is that, among other things, The Consumer Ombudsman has pointed out that in recent years an increase in the number of traders who require all or part of the purchase price to be paid in advance, without any guarantee being provided for the amount paid. We believe that this is an unfortunate development, in which the credit risk is shifted to the consumer, and that a legal provision will help clarify the current law. My question is really different. There are posts at the representative Dybevig earlier today. I can't humiliate myself. I have to ask the Council of State whether he shares the representative's view of the ministry's proposals as extremely environmentally hostile, and that it would almost be a disaster for the environment if it had been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e329	First, I would like to say that I look at the text in my comment on the Workers' Party's and SV's proposal for advance payment that the term 'general prohibition' is not correct. But the next part of my reasoning, that's the way it's formulated, makes it seem to me that it's unclear how to make a reasonable delineation. When it comes to the second question, I have probably gone and waited for it for quite a while. I'm too environmentally friendly. In the balance sheet that has got considerable temperature over it, I have to say that I can live with what the bulk of the population suggests, without, for that reason, trying to balance something between the parties that have been here. I think it might be a point that you don't unnecessarily scrap heavy products. At the same time, the text that has been prepared is so strong for the benefit of the consumer and so strong in the pressure on the producer that I think it will promote a proper environmental policy. Nevertheless, I would like to add that the most important and correct environmental policy in terms of products as large as this, may also be promoted through other instruments than those under consideration by the law in the Grand Duchy today. Those themes will probably have ample opportunity for all the representatives in the Chamber to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e336	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e339	For the right, it is very gratifying that we now get our own consumer purchase law, which more clearly gets the rules that apply to the purchase relationship. This law must be seen in conjunction with a number of laws that may affect the purchase relationship. The development of consumer protection, not least in the EU, has resulted in fragmented legislation that may be difficult to inform. In the long term, it may be desirable to review consumer legislation in general to see whether better coordination of rules is possible. Today, contracts for sale by traders to consumers are regulated by the Sale of Goods Act. The legislative proposal provides for the separation of consumer purchases into a separate regulatory framework. Therefore, the aim of this proposition is to provide rules that are specifically adapted to purchase agreements where the seller is a trader and the buyer is unprofessional. The proposal therefore provides for a certain strengthening of the rights of the consumer buyer in the event of a breach of contract by the seller. We have this Consumer Purchases Act that strengthens the consumer's rights, but one of the most important things for the Right is that we have today a simplified law that allows everyone to understand it. On the right, the Committee is pleased that the marketing of the law needs to be improved. This is a work I know the Cooperation Government will give priority to. With regard to the buyer's claims due to defects in the sale item, the bill involves several changes that strengthen the position of the consumer buyer. The right will ensure that, as a general rule, the purchaser is entitled to choose between the correction or the re-delivery due to the lack of the goods. If the seller does not implement this in accordance with the law, the purchaser should instead be able to demand a price reduction or cancellation. The right is pleased that the principle of the seller’s liability as a result of shortcomings is simplified and that the basis of liability is made objectively, thus strengthening the position of the consumer buyer. Furthermore, it is important that we also have an extension of the scope of the purchaser’s right to cancel and the rules on the seller’s claim in the event of a breach of contract by the purchaser. During the examination of the Consumer Purchases Act, there has been a significant disagreement about the need to regulate the legislation relating to electricity contracts. The right considers that electricity should be subject to consumer purchase law, in the same way as oil and gas. That's why we're happy that the government has decided to put down a sample to evaluate this. The right is very pleased that the government parties get a majority for our proposal to include digital benefits in the Consumer Purchases Act. This means that goods such as: music, games and travel purchased over the Internet are also subject to the Consumer Purchases Act. There are certain types of benefits that are not in the law today, so I don't quite understand why Storberget goes up on the pulpit and creates a lot of uncertainty about this. Until now, there has been an unsustainable situation for consumers who shop over the Internet. We've seen a lot of issues in recent years where consumers have been tricked into shopping over the Internet. Hopefully, this proposal will remove unprofessional operators from the market and make Internet commerce much safer. It is important for us to get through this matter because there are very many young Internet users who are shopping. Now those who act on the Internet also have consumer safety in the same way as other consumers. That is why I have no idea whatsoever that the SV and the Workers' Party do not support this youth-friendly proposal – SV and the Workers' Party, which often claim to ensure the safety of young people. The new law applies only to natural persons. ‘I’m sorry,’ says Storberget to Bergen’s Official Journal today. I'm a little surprised at this. For the right, it is important to define ‘consumers’ only as natural persons, because we then actually get a uniform consumer concept and avoid difficult demarcation problems. An extension, as proposed by the Workers' Party, will cause very many unnecessary interpretation problems. Fortunately, therefore, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have joined forces to ensure that the same rights can be guaranteed for residents' rights, associations or musicians' rights by entering into one of the members' names.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e370	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e373	Taking care of the interests of consumers is, I think, becoming an increasingly important political theme in a world where we are increasingly working together across borders. A typical example of the need for such international cooperation is precisely the emergence of electronic commerce, because it presents us with new challenges to protect consumers’ interests. I think it is incredibly important to bring up-to-date international legislation in this area. This is also the background, for example. for the law of the day. The EU Consumer Purchases Directive is the basis for the preparation of the law and the proposal for a law. However, the problem here is that this directive is a minimum directive. This also means that the directive and the legislation do not address all the issues that Internet commerce and electronic commerce poses to us. Of course, we need complementary legislation, but we also need to develop regional agreements addressing cross-border issues. I am very pleased that a joint committee says that ‘it should be assessed whether the Consumer Purchases Act should also apply to website editors, so that editors become responsible for purchases that go through their website’. I hope that the Government will take the initiative to develop such common legislation, and not only legislation, but also a common interpretation of the electronic commerce legislation. Natural partners here should be the Nordic countries. For this reason, the Nordic Council Government should take initiatives towards other Nordic countries in order to obtain such legislation and a common interpretation. I am aware that the Nordic Council of Ministers has a working group in this area, and I would ask the Council of State to confirm that the Government also has a political will to continue this work with a view to achieving a better Nordic regulatory framework for electronic commerce.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e386	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 373]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e402	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e409	We also have earlier, in Innst. S. No 181 for 1999-2000, dealing with a very wide range of issues such as: deals with free legal assistance. In this context, there was a widespread — yes, there was a cross-political consensus in the Committee — that there was no need for change at that time. The rapporteur at the time was Mr Tömerås from the Labour Party. It was also stated that you needed, among other things, to have. excesses linked to free legal aid. The Committee stressed the last time this matter was under consideration – and I find reason to repeat it, because I think it is important in the context we are now in – the following, in the Inner East. S. No 181: ‘The Committee points out that it must be a principle that the personal economy should not prevent its rights in areas of great importance. The Committee has noted the involvement of several organisations that believe that the income threshold for obtaining legal assistance in the needs-tested cases is currently too low. The Committee points out that the proportion of households entering below the ceiling has increased following changes in the Law on Legal Aid in 1997. But within the quarter that is now below the amount limit, we find mainly single-parents, social security recipients and people without their own income. This is a lower proportion than in the other Nordic countries. However, the Committee points out that the proportion of cases where free legal aid was granted without need-to-be testing in relation to income for 1998 was more than half of the total number of cases. This may indicate that, for those matters which are to be presumptuously important and of greatest importance to people, free legal aid is provided.’ – So far quote from the previous setting about this. What's the main point of the proposition we're dealing with now is to get a simpler and less resource-intensive regulation than what exists today. The government's proposal is that those who receive free legal aid in cases outside the courts should pay only a fixed proportion, that is, a basic proportion, and in cases dealt with by the courts, one must continue to pay an additional proportion. But it is also – and we ask the Ministry to continue working on it – that this additional proportion should be taken into account. We think that prowess has a certain preventative effect. There is a majority and a minority in the Committee in this matter. The government parties are in a minority, but we want to state that the proposed changes will provide a considerably simpler system for all those involved. We have also noticed that the proposals that are available will give a significantly lower proportion of people than is the case today. I could say a lot about what is in the rationale for our proposal. But it is clear in the setting, and since this is likely to be voted down in Odelstinget today, I just want to add some comments to the statement that we, for example. in the government fraction, should not be interested in supporting those who have a weak economy and who may find it difficult to reach the legal system because of insufficient assistance. Then I would like to remind you that it was a unanimous committee that decided in the previous period that a free initial consultation system should be set up. It's very important to keep in mind in this context, because too many people, it's exactly what you need, a free initial consultation, where you don't have to pay. This is a scheme adopted by the Stortinget in the previous period. I would like to take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e433	Finn Kristian Marthinsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e436	Today, in many cases, it costs a fortune to bring a case before the judiciary. Lawyers shall pay the fees, and the courts shall pay the fees. It could mean that ordinary people who initially have a good and fair case leave behind claiming their right. In order to remedy this situation, a free legal aid system is in place. This system has as its starting point to create equality for the law by allowing people who have no bold books to meet their legal needs. The Labour Party believes that we still have a job to do before the legal aid system works well enough. The scheme is still fine masked. It is limited to some types of issues and has an upper income limit. In addition, free legal assistance is not free of charge. The issue we have up to today is about simplifying, but from the Government's side it is suggested to keep the proportion of free legal aid. Many of us have actually lived in, and many in the Norwegian people still live in, the error that free legal aid is free. They are not aware that in many cases the proportion is significant. In some cases, people are left with bills worth $100,000 after legal proceedings have ended – and that's on an offer that was thought to be free of charge. The Labour Party believes that free legal assistance should be free of charge and therefore proposes to remove the excess. We now have a majority in favour of this, together with the Party of Advancement and the Party of Government, while the parties of Government are firmly opposed. The main argument for retaining the proportion of ownership, such as: was made by the representative Marthinsen today, that the fact that people are using the scheme too much is counterproductive. In my opinion, it is an argument that has little team. Firstly, there are only a few who are aware of the fact that they relate to the use of the scheme. Secondly, Section 17 of the Act provides for the possibility for the State to refuse the application for free legal aid if it is obvious that the scheme is being misused. Thirdly, most people who use free legal aid are people with very low incomes. An evaluation of the scheme shows that persons with low income and low schooling are at least aware of the legal aid system and are among those who at least use the legal system to care for their interests. I will therefore go as far as to turn the matter upside down and say that if more people are now going to use the scheme, it is a sign that we have succeeded in our policy. The unmet legal needs of the population are largely linked to legislation aimed at ensuring cohesion in society. It is worrying that those most in need of social benefits are at least aware of their rights. A well-developed justice system is therefore a prerequisite for the weakest to assert their rights in the welfare society. In addition, the government's income from the equity is also small. In 2000, approximately 13.3 million were paid. kr. The system of collection of propellants is resource-intensive and complicated. The costs of calculating and collecting excess interests are difficult. The four-year cost calculations were 5.6 million. kr. So you could say that the gain goes into the spin. It makes no sense to spend so much money to get in as little, from people who already have little. For the state, this is small money, but for the people involved, it means a lot that the excesses are eliminated. Today, in some areas, free legal aid can be granted, i.e. free legal assistance in defined areas. In 1998, 27 000 people were granted their applications. This is a much too low number. The former Supreme Court Justice referred to it as a major problem that so few are subject to genuine free legal aid. I agree with the heart. A system of free legal assistance should always be under assessment. Therefore, the Workers' Party now chooses to take new steps to improve the scheme. In the previous revision, we chose to expand the scope of free legal aid. And last summer, the Workers' Party arranged to raise the income limit to NOK 21000000. But we still believe that the income limit is relatively low. We are therefore pleased that we have a majority in the Chamber here today, together with the Advance Party and SV, so that we can now increase the limit of receiving free legal aid to NOK 230,000. Finally, on behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to address the proposals to which the Workers' Party is associated.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e462	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e465	The rapporteur, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, has presented the government's position in an excellent way. I want to link some comments beyond that. It is always nice to hand out gifts, even if it is long until Christmas – and perhaps even more important here in Stortinget: for a long time until the budget procedure for the autumn. The case today has two components: removal of the excess and raising the income limit in order to obtain free legal aid. In particular, it is the proposal to remove the excess we in the Right are responding to. In the debate on free legal aid on 25 May 2000, the rapporteur, Ms Tömerås, from the Labour Party, said: ‘The proportion will primarily be a signal to users that it actually costs to use legal aid and is an attempt to prevent over-consumption because one is being financially burdened to a certain extent.’ I can fully support this reasoning. It also did a total justice policy two years ago. But something has happened – the Labour Party is out of government offices, and the desire to score cheap points, which can be expensive money for the state, is growing. In debates outside this room, the spokeswoman of the Workers' Party, Gunn Karin Gjul, has pointed out that the Workers' Party is in favour of this in order to correct differences in Norway, to help the poor – as she also pointed out in her speech instead. According to the Ministry of Justice, 2 106 331 inhabitants over the age of 18 will benefit from the income limit of NOK 250000, as proposed by the Workers' Party and SV. This government takes poor Norway seriously, but then one must not resort to extremes like claiming that more than half of the country's inhabitants are so poor that they are entitled to free legal aid. Why does the Workers' Party not take the step fully and propose that everyone who does not pay the top tax should receive free legal aid? What the Government has done in this matter is to propose a moderate increase in the proportion of free legal aid, while proposing significant simplifications in the system. This is in line with the recommendations made by an overall Justice Department at the Innst. S. 181 for 1999-2000, an attitude that was addressed two years ago. In our opinion, the excesses have a certain preventative effect. They may act as a threshold which may prevent the unnecessary repeated use of the free legal aid system and, at the same time, prevent cases from becoming more extensive than necessary. To put it simply: Nabochrangler should be searched for elsewhere than in the courtroom. The second point which is alarming in today's case is that the majority of them carry out budgetary proceedings in the middle of the year. It's almost becoming a habit in this big business. The majority obliges the Government to increase the income limit to NOK 230000. The working party and SV propose even an increase of NOK 250 000. An increase of 230,000 kroner will cost 28 million at the same amount as today. kr – and the proposal for the Workers' Party and SV will cost SEK 57 million. kr — more than today. There's a reason to add that it's with the amount of business today. If you get a free gift, you have to believe that it will be more requested and that the number of cases will increase – something Gunn Karin Gjul hoped would be a consequence of this – with the consequences that it will have for other needs in the justice sector and for the courts. The government has followed up the mission given by the previous raise: simplification of the system of offsetting. Most respond by introducing a new principle: free access to justice for over half of the country’s population. It will be interesting to follow developments in the number of new cases. It will be interesting to note whether low priority cases are now being pushed into the judicial system and thus crowd out important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e492	Free legal aid is too many important to assert fundamental rights. It does not help to have a right if it cannot be claimed or enforced. Limiting legal rights on the basis of the individual’s economy is not only unfortunate but also unacceptable for a legal State. Now it is that free legal aid, as it is in the law, has limitations on the economy, but it also has limitations on matters of law. It is therefore very important in the case areas that the Stortinget believes should be able to claim help in the case of free legal aid. That's not how the committee leader tries to make it sound like, that afterboggles are issues where you can get free legal help. So it's not border disputes and trees and suns that are the question in this case, but for example. child distribution and such things. What has been one of the major problems with the excesses is that they have often come as a big surprise to those who have believed that they have had free legal aid — about 25 p.m. the costs become a proportion of the costs. It might as well admit that if you try to advertise that a country has free legal aid, it should be free. So now the law or the regulations are operating with the amount-fixed income limits. In fact, when the Government now does not want to adjust these income limits, a inflationary downsizing of whom the offer may include is made. There were clearly more people who could say last year that they had an income of less than NOK 210,000, than it is this year, after the year's wage bill. And then it might be that the most appropriate thing would have been for the government to make a suggestion that this would be indexed, for example. by connecting it to the basic amount of the public interest. Another important point in relation to regulating this income limit is that the last time it was regulated, legal expenses were free of VAT. So the majority introduced VAT on legal services in the previous period. For a company this is not a problem, there is VAT and VAT out, but for the individual, with a not too good economy, this at the top will actually be a big problem. And then I think we have to admit that although the Progress Party was not involved in this VAT reform, we do not want to punish more than strictly necessary. I also think it is quite important that poverty reduction should consist of giving people the opportunity to claim the rights and opportunities they have, instead of giving them opportunities and rights they cannot afford to avail themselves of, because they do not have the money to claim them. When the excesses are removed, I also see the possibility of greater use of free legal aid, and that is not necessarily a problem in itself. It might also be some of the things that are meant to be. But in such a situation, where these excesses disappear, it might be more important than in the past to be aware of possible abuse – and I am not thinking particularly of someone using an additional opportunity to sue the public. But we've had some enquiries where some people seem to use free legal aid as a means of harassing parts of their neighbourhoods. These are, of course, a few specific cases, but still problematic for those covered by them. It should perhaps be that the statesmen are a little more concerned about this when they grant free legal aid, and actually see how many cases they have had, and whether there have been extremely many results of obvious groundless demands. Then you should go through this more thoroughly. But in general – for the regular user and for those in need of free legal assistance – this will be a great advantage. I therefore take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e507	The representative of Kampestad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e510	This is a fantastic day for anyone else in the future would have been shocked because what they thought was free legal aid, at all, was not free. I'm proud to be one of those who have contributed to people who have problems getting free help, so we can get a greater degree of equality in this country. With effect from 1 January 2003, the excess legal aid shall be eliminated in full, and from that date, all persons with a revenue of up to NOK 230000 per year shall be entitled to free legal aid if they need it. I don't think we can overestimate what this means for ordinary people in Norway who have a legal need. The next step must be to raise the income limit even more, so that the average person in this country will have access to the courts if you need it. As of next year, people in Norway will have a much better legal position than today. But it bothers me to think of the girl who called our office last week and cried because she had to give up a matter that meant enormous to her; she had to give up because she couldn't afford to pursue a case that meant everything. It was heartwarming to hear about. For her, it is, after all, a lean comfort to know that she had been able to continue her case if the year was 2003. Nevertheless — women and men, like her, will, from then on, both drop excesses and have a greater chance of falling below the income limit, thus receiving free legal aid. If the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party had not found each other in this case, the result could be quite different. The arrangement of the Government is, in my view, terribly poor. I think it could lead to a greater inequality for the law than what we see today. I don't understand how the government could go into an arrangement where lawyers would be responsible for the collection of probates, when so many hearing bodies warned against it and said that it would only lead to one thing: that fewer lawyers would take on free legal remedies – that is, less like the law. But I don't think I'm going to spend my time on this scenario, when, after all, we've got a majority in place to make sure that the opposite is going to happen. I am pleased that the three parties agree that the Government must consider whether to receive free legal assistance in child distribution matters, since the present system is clearly unreasonable – especially because many fathers who could otherwise have been considered the best caregivers have had to give up for financial reasons. I am pleased that this should be assessed – and not adopted now. I believe that such profound changes must be discussed before they are implemented and that, after all, we must feel so responsible for what we are doing that we guarantee quality decisions first. Here is the actual child to be cared for, not mothers or fathers. In this respect, it is equally important that we have an impact that the Government now needs to make concrete proposals in order to improve the resolution of disputes in child distribution cases, based on the so-called Children's Procedural Committee's 1998 suspension. The fact that the majority at the same time establish that children's distribution cases are ideally not suitable in court is an important signal. Finally, I would like to give the following challenges to the government parties: they have said – at least in a debate with me on P3 last Monday – that they do not want to eliminate the excesses because they would rather increase the income limit in free legal aid cases. How could it be that they are voting against the proposal to raise this limit to NOK 230 000? And then all of a sudden – from the representative of Greece – they believe that there are too many who fall under the free legal aid system. I don't get it big. This is a little schizophrenic. For most people, this must be completely hopeless to deal with. The government parties have also said that a removal of the excess will lead to people almost storming to the courts – to use my own words. In this case, how do they relate to the fact that there is under-exploitation of the rights they otherwise claim among unincorporated people in Norway? I hope that the government parties will give me answers to the two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e529	The Central Party does not have members of the Judicial Committee for this period, hence an article by me to clarify our vision. We agree with the Government that there is a need for simplification and an improvement when it concerns the free legal aid system. But the central party would have liked to see the government go a little bit further when they now propose changes. We record that a majority in the Committee also has such an opinion, and we share the opinion of the majority; that the free legal aid scheme should be reserved for certain types of cases; and that there is a level of income and wealth to limit who comes under the legal aid scheme. We also support the proposal to remove the property from 1 January 2003. I'm in agreement with the previous speaker, who said that children's issues really don't belong in the judiciary. Unfortunately, some things of this kind end up there. We think it is good that it has been suggested that there should be a closer distribution of each income limit in children's distribution cases – which are considered to be higher limits – and we will see closer to that question in the next round. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have a proposal to raise the income limit to NOK 250000, as stated in the setting. I see that this is a proposal to raise the income limit to NOK 230000, which may seem to have multiple numbers. The centre party will support it. Furthermore, in relation to the setting, we will be voting against proposal No. 1 and against proposal No. 2 but for proposal No. 3 – if presented – and at least for proposal No. 4 and for setting otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e543	The Communication on Legal Aid, as presented by the Bondevik Government in 1999, stressed the need to develop a coherent, long-term and predictable legal aid policy. When Stortinget dealt with the message in the spring of 2000, I was pleased to note that the Stortinge essentially joined the main conclusions of the notification. One of the main points was a thorough reform of the system of ownership. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV, now come in to do free legal aid free of charge by removing the excess. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the proposal contained in the proposal is essentially based on the letter of hearing sent out last year by the Ministry of Justice, under Hanne Harlem as Minister of Justice. The opinions largely supported the main features of the proposal. The vast majority of the hearing bodies accepted some form of partiality. In my view, the majority's proposals create a significant distinction between those who qualify for free legal aid and those who do not. Those who get free legal aid are getting very privileged. They get full legal assistance completely free of charge, while those who do not come under the law of free legal assistance have to pay everything for themselves. To date, there has been a broad political consensus that prostheses have a two-part function. They are not only a source of funding, but they also exist from a preventive approach: we also need to be aware that free legal aid without self-interests can act as a process driver. With the current situation in the courts, where the increase in the number of cases in recent years has posed significant challenges, this decision could lead to a significant increase in the burden. But the Storting Committee setting is ready. The proposition concerns only the partial arrangement. However, the majority have also proposed other significant changes to the legal aid scheme. The working party and SV will raise the income limit to NOK 250 000 from 1 January 2003. The progress party will raise the limit to NOK 230000. The income limits for free legal aid were substantially raised on 1 July last year. The changes in the legal aid system adopted today by the Storting are without further investigation or impact assessment on important points. Costs and funding have not been discussed. As regards the increase in income limits, the Committee can be based on my letter of 23 May this year, which informed me what it will cost to raise the income limits based on data from the Statistical Central Bureau. An increase in income limits by NOK 20 000 will cost an estimated 28 million. kr. Such information is not requested in relation to the elimination of the excess. The loss of equity income is for this year estimated at 25 million. kr. But what removal of excesses will have to say for the demand for free legal aid is very uncertain. The Ministry has made estimates that, with all possible reservations, indicate that the increase in demand for free legal aid will be significant when excesses are removed and that we are talking about costs of between 30 and 40 million. kr per. years. I note that today's decision by the Storting will impose considerable additional costs on the budget of justice that the Stortinget has not granted. The size has chosen to make the changes to the legal aid scheme outside the ordinary budgetary procedure. With the assumed major impact this decision will have on the budget of the justice sector, I naturally have to come back to the economic aspects in the right context. Of course, in the case of point C of the decision on the suspension, on child-distribution matters, this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e562	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e565	I record that the Council of State – like the representative of Greece – is terrified of removing the excesses of ‘may act as a process driver’, as he says. That is to say, the same thing that the representative of Greece expressed a little bit more popularly, that people now want to storm to the courts because you remove the excesses. I think that's completely wrong. The background is that very many of those currently using the scheme are not at all aware of the fact that there are excesses of free legal aid. It actually comes as a shock to them that day the matter is over and they get the bill on the table. Secondly, it is actually those with the lowest incomes who use and seize the courts at least, while the wealth of the community is the most seizing the courts. And it's those with the lowest incomes that know their rights at least, and that have the greatest need to fight their rights in order to make them equalise the inequalities that exist in society. I note that the Council of State is also concerned about the economy related to the proposals that the majority has now promoted. The majority have sent letters with questions to the ministry and have received clear answers on what this will cost. While the government chooses to give tax credits in the ten thousand krona class to those who have the most, the majority, now that we have increased profits from the rule of action, wants to use this money, among other things. to free legal aid and to raise the rate of income, so that those with the lowest income today have the opportunity to obtain free legal aid. In the end, I want to challenge the Council of States, because he's talking very clearly that there's now going to be an even bigger distinction between those who get, and those who don't get, and he mentions this in particular with children's distribution issues. I want to challenge the Council of States whether he agrees with the majority that we need to make a distinction there, so that we don't get into a situation where dad doesn't get free legal aid in child distribution cases, while mother gets it, and that at least it can be procedural for the party that gets free legal aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e576	I agree, of course, that the legal aid system should work socially. That's also why I advanced a matter of this which in its time, spring 2000, was dealt with in Stortinget. You could make a lot of assessments of what would be the most social. For example, the Committee: not chosen to address a discussion of which case types would then be the most natural. But I take note that you've done what you've done. With regard to child distribution matters, I mentioned nothing but that of course I will follow up on what is in point C of the decision in the cancellation. The fact that I have mentioned the process time by it is because the committee in other contexts, and quite independently of being fair to those who have little, is occupied by the trial time in the courts, that this should evolve in a way that does not push the courts as much as possible. That's why I mentioned it, because it's a point that belongs to it. So I guess the majority have balanced that point. When it comes to the issue of money, I only raised it because, in practice, we are going into a budgetary procedure in a situation where we are not going to deal with a budget. I think that as a member of the government I actually have to point out. Any representative in government position would have done so. That is why I also allowed myself to note that I have done nothing but follow up on the proposals of former Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem. But I take note that the Labour Party in opposition has a different attitude than that of Hanne Harlem in her time, and that she had the support of when she was Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e587	First, I would like to point out that the entry into force is set at 1 January 2003, so that there is no extraordinary budgetary debate now, but that the Government is of course allowed to enter this into its budget in the usual way. Another matter that the Council of State raised was that there is now a big difference between the one that falls under the rule of free legal aid, and those that fall outside the rule of free legal aid. Specially problematic from the point of view of the Progress Party are consensual matters, which are difficult matters, not least at personal level. Then it is particularly important that all parties feel that they have received a real and good treatment of their case if, unfortunately, they end up in a legal dispute. I fully agree that such matters are not initially at home, but if they once end up there, you have to take good care of them. When the Council of State sees this great difference between those who are just falling within, and those who are just outside, I will ask whether the Council of State can look at the possibility of, to the extent that one party in such a conflict is given free legal aid, that the other party, with any restrictions, should also fall under the rules on free legal aid, or whether the Council of State would, if necessary, want to take the cases of association out of the section of income limitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e596	There is a lot that could have been assessed if, for example: had asked for a general case for the legal aid schemes. Now it has not been chosen for that type of work, and I will not go into – let's say – freestyle when it comes to evaluating some suggestions from the pulpit. I'm going to deal with the proposals that Odelstinget takes up and adopts, and one of them has a point C. Then I noticed the representative of Kukkestad’s question – to say it that way. In the case that this will only come into force from 1 January next year, that is correct. But what you do then is to introduce the budgetary practice in the Storting that you relate to the budgets of recent years before these budgets are available. And there was nothing else I said about my post but that was actually what you did. It's actually undeniably that you do it. So the Storting thinks about whether that's the way you want to do it, or not. Here the majority have decided that they will do it that way. It's actually my duty as the Council of State to say that I have to come back to the economics, and of course I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e603	I have more questions. One goes on the proposal from the Government for the collection and calculation of the proceeds. Among other things, the Lawyers' Association, Juss-Buss and others strongly warned against such a system, because the law of free legal aid is very difficult to obtain. In addition, this would involve considerable additional work and uncertainty in relation to the recovery, if you actually get back the money that you are entitled to. In the view of the Council of State, this will result in a greater inequality of law than what we have. I wonder if the Minister of Justice has at all thought about whether it could be the result of this change. Then I'm going to ask the question that I'm in and out of my mind, because I'm not quite sure if I'm going to get an answer if I don't ask it right now. It goes on that in a debate at NRK Petre last Monday between me and the representative of Hofstad, the representative of Hofstad said that the government does not want to eliminate the excesses because it would rather be a priority to raise the income limit in cases of free legal aid. Is it so to understand that you have it as a goal in the long term? In that case, I wonder if the Minister of Justice shares the concern of the representative of Greece that there will then be too many people who fall under this scheme. This will then be a little difficult to grasp for us other mortals. It has also been said that removing the excesses will lead to people running down the courts. But when there is an under-consumption among unfettered people in Norway, how can it be that no more has been done to give people the rights they really deserve but do not use?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e612	To be very clear and direct, the opposition takes advantage of the privilege of adopting something on behalf of the Government without the opposition being responsible for any budget. It's allowed to do that. In one of the points, which is quite clear and which is the case today, which is a change in law, you relate to the very change in law. But income limits are not part of the issue today. Of course, it would have been quite possible to get a broad work on how the legal aid system works, on what would have been the most effective, on what would have been the most effective. Now the opposition chooses not to do it like this, and that's when the Storting expresses its view through voting. That's the way it is. I don't want to go into it now and say what would be done given one or the other, except to say that I am very aware that in Norway we have chosen a legal aid scheme that has delimited itself from the other Nordic countries by choosing that someone – not a majority of the population – will get really much, while the rest does not get. I think, in sum, that's the right attitude. I would like to have a discussion about what should have been on the inside of the system, but there is no time and time to go into it, and I will therefore not comment on it either. It is in any budgetary process that different considerations are balanced against each other. These are the questions that we get to come back to. But of course, as far as the issue of process risk is concerned, I have no fear that disadvantaged people will use legal remedies. I have mentioned this before that they should be able to do. But what I'm concerned about, and which I was actually concerned about when I now promoted the proposal, was that I thought with a peculiarity that this would simplify. At least I didn't intend to make it harder for anyone to access the remedies. That has never been my intention. So there's going to be an open debate about how the effects of the proposal can be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e621	So the chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e626	If you don't want to make things more difficult for someone, I have problems understanding that the legal proposal and the legal aid itself and the self-promotion system would have a preventative effect. It has to be the exact thing that it has a preventative effect, that it gets a little bit harder. And it actually gets more expensive. I have been stunned for a long time that the government parties do not now seize the opportunity, in so far as their first case is to get to both rule simplification, red tape, self-equipment clearing and making it easier for the weakest. These were the words of the election campaign, and that is what many election scientists believe these parties won the election. Here we have the opportunity to hit three flies in one taste, and there are several of the parties that are represented in this hall, which believe that the outsides have actually gone so far that it's time to tighten up in many fields. But I understand why this arrangement is not being taken into account when I hear the head of the committee Trond Helleland in the pulpit here today. It is, to say the least, shocking to be aware that this amendment would mean free access to justice for half of the population. And then you mention neighboring things as an example. How wrong can you take? What is characteristic of the Law on Legal Aid is that it is very limited in some specific fields. And it's especially the issue of child distribution that goes on and on. That's where we find those who have the least resources, but who have no need at all to get any incentives for not doing their case. Fortunately, we are now opening up to improve the ability to conduct our case, especially in the area of child distribution. This should apply to both men and women in cases where there is an absolute need for clarification in relation to a very difficult issue. Then it doesn't help to go around and say that you're right when you're not getting it right. Here I think that the government parties should have gone deeper into their argument before they go to Stortinget and serve what I almost perceive as a clear error description of today's legal aid scheme. Here it's going to be a system that means you get a considerably simpler administration of it all. In relation to what these excesses involve, this is a proceeds that, in my opinion, must be very low, and which would help to get rid of this quickly. And then it actually helps to lift those who have the worst -- those who are in a very difficult situation besides having a difficult economy, those who are forced to go to the right to solve one of their most important problems -- as most often children's distribution. So this is a step forward for those of us who want to make it easier to fight differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e641	There are strong words that suck through the hall. Thorkildsen of SV accuses the Right of Schizophrenia, without the President noticing it. The representative of Storberget is shaken. What he is shaken about is an answer to a request that Storberget and the Workers' Party themselves sent to the Government and the Ministry of Justice, asking for answers to how many people would be covered by the extended income limits. I can quote, just as I did in my post: with an increase of NOK 40,000, as the Workers' Party proposes, from NOK 210,000 to NOK 250,000, it says in the ministry's letter that it will ‘cost approximately SEK 57 275 000 and will allow a further 101 505 persons to enter below income limits. About 62.2% or 2 106 331 of the country's population aged over 18 are then below income limits». What's so shocking about that information, I don't know, but I find that it's 62 pst. of the adult population in the country, which is then below income limits. Then I must say that if you are to have a targeted action that would take those who need it the most, this must well be the bombing of the century! The Great Mountain has turned away from the pulpit and pointed out that here one had the opportunity to do both the one and the other. What the government did in good faith was to follow up the proposal of Hanne Harlem, the former Minister of Justice in this country. Odd Einar Dørum followed up a unanimous justice in Stortinget, where the Workers' Party strongly pointed out that the excesses had a preventative effect and should be continued. So to schizophrenia, there's no kind of schizophrenia associated with this. What we have said clearly, and I have said several times, is that what is an important instrument in the area of free legal aid is to continuously assess the income limits, especially after the VAT reform. I have said that, and I stand by it. But if you combine it with removing all the peculiarities, it becomes Ole Brumm's policy. Then it becomes: yes, thank you, both. The problems that arise from what the majority is now concerned about are that one party in – let's say – a child distribution case, which may come just above the income limit, will get full costs, while the one that comes right below will have free legal aid ‘all the way’. That is why I think this is going to be a budgetary procedure in an outrageous matter. There will be incorrect disposal within the budget of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice is a calm man and does not swing to the great heights here. But I have to say that this is bad craftsmanship from the majority. This is what we are going to do when we are going to give priority to the justice sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e660	The Council of State separated on the tame of its reply to the representative Thorkildsen between the amendment of the law on the one hand and the other decisions on the other. In this context, I understood him that the regulation of the amounts had not been made in the form of legislative proposals, which is correct, even though it could initially have been designed like this. When the Council of State said that he wanted to come back to the Storting with the economic aspect of this, which was not directly related to the legal text, the question is, Will the Council of State follow up the proposal – if it now gets a majority in the Grand Duchy – where it says: ‘The Government requests that the amount of revenue be raised in order to receive legal aid up to NOK 230000 from 1 January 2003.’;» Or will he come back without following this decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e672	I also find it strange that you dare to use such powerful expressions about what the government has done and what the minority is doing. That's what was initiated by the case rapporteur the last time this was up, by the Workers' Party's spokeswoman in that case, Ane Sofie Tömrås. Then it's strange not to notice any way that you go in yourself and say, "Yes, we've turned around in relation to the signal that we in a unanimous committee agreed to give to the department, about what kind of information we wanted to get back to Stortinget with, what kind of suggestions you should make. I find it strange that it should be so easy to turn my back on his own past. Then it's pointed out that this is about giving people the rights they have, but not using. Yes, it's a good thing to give people the rights they have, but not use – to help people see what they need, what their right to help, and what kind of opportunity they have to win in a justice system. But for that very reason, I allowed myself in my introduction to quote from the Justice Committee which was adopted at Stortinget in the previous period. There we just took this up and said that there should be an opportunity for people to come to a free consultation, so that you can clarify what kind of rights you have, what kind of opportunities you have to reach, and what you would recommend them to do. We have opened up arrangements to give the individual a knowledge of his or her situation. At the same time, we – as the Labour Party also wanted it until they had to leave the government offices – want to have a proportion that should not be an obstacle to the exercise of people's legitimate rights, but in order not to get the justice system bombed by matters that were initially unnecessary to burden it. That is what lies in this, not that people should be deprived of their legitimate rights. I don't think any parties in this room are interested in depriving people of their rights, but that's the way you view it, and the way you say it. And then there's also something about memory -- some people are suffering from an advanced memory failure in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e681	The representative Marthinsen called for some kind of humility from the majority in this room, and that we should get in the water. It could almost be seen as if he asked us to crawl to the cross and admit that we have turned around. The point is that the Council of State has presented an excellent evaluation of the legal aid system, which demonstrates that having a special interest does not have a particularly high impact. In the evaluation he has now submitted, we can see that the state has small revenues from the scheme. A total of 14-15 million have come in. DKK per year on the balances, while it has cost 5-6 million. to require them in. In addition, we know that the estimate from the department has been over 20 million. NOK, while you have only received approx. half of what you've demanded. What this shows is that the legal aid system and the excesses affect those who have the least. It tells us that when you only get half of the estimate, it's because it's those who have the least and who can't afford to pay the bills, who get hit. For the Workers' Party, it is incredibly important that we have a legal aid system that allows those who need the most to try their case before the Court of Justice to also be able to bring the case before them. If we didn't eliminate the excesses, we would have had a situation where we had restricted people's opportunities in the courts. The representative Marthinsen thinks we should go in ourselves. Yes, we've gone along with ourselves and recognised that the best social measure we can do here and now to improve the legal aid system is to eliminate the excess.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e692	The representative Kukkestad asked me if I disagreed that something was a bill and something was a different proposal. No, I don't. What I said was two things, namely that a legislative document was presented, and I found that on that occasion the committee had also raised other questions than those relating to the bill. That's what I meant to express, and nothing else. The proposals submitted have been submitted. Furthermore, I said that the committee has not asked for economic conditions in order to eliminate the excesses, but it has done so in terms of raising the ceiling, and it has been quoted by several speakers in the past. So I said that looking at what it can mean -- the sum of this -- is my duty to come back to the natural context, namely, in the economic context of the budget. That's what I said in the post, and of course I would like to repeat that here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e701	I guess we're about to get into all the mental diagnoses in this debate, so I'm not going to get into it. But then to the representative of Marthinsen: he has now referred to previous committee decisions and to the representative of Tmärås, and as far as I know, also to others, as if it were from 1. The book of Genesis. There is reason to turn our minds to the debate we had last week on criminal justice, where the same representative took the signed and thought there was no reason to dwell on previous statements, statements and lines of policy. If we didn't enjoy the future a little bit, we'd be upset. And I want to replicate the same thing: can't we also now enjoy the future a little bit? Can we not rejoice that, after all, there is someone in this room who sees things evolve – both the amount of money into the state budget, the situation with regard to the monitoring of who has the worst, and to the extent that one also discovers that the government wants to promote a case here in the Stortingen to do something about the organisation of the peculiarities? Then it's natural to raise the question, is it necessary to have the props? When the proceeds are so low, I think it's an affordable turnaround – to the extent that it's a turnaround! Politics is dynamic, it evolves, and there are many conditions that play in it. I have to say that the debate we had in the election campaign about who has the worst in society should be a germ for all of us to perhaps leave debates on what we – in all parties – have said before, and first of all take into account those who have the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e710	Now probably the context last week, and what we were talking about, was quite different from the one that is today. And whether we're in 1. Genesis, in the old pact, or whether we've moved into the new pact, where salvation is a central element, I'm not going to undertake to be a theological interpreter of this pulpit. However, on a private basis, I would like to contribute with the representative of Storberget on these issues. I am aware that it is important to look forward, and I am, of course, concerned about it. Both the Christian People's Party and the government parties are busy looking forward. But this has something to do with some sort of neatness, which we expect the Workers' Party to also contribute. In fact, what was presented has more or less been made a budgetary matter in this context. I found in my first post that in this case we are in a minority, and I have accepted that we are. At the same time, however, I have also found that both the representative Storberget and the representative Gjul have clearly stated that they have turned around. They have a completely different view of this issue in this debate than they had in the debate two years ago. And that's a good thing, it's just a good thing to see it. The Labour Party has turned around, and the consequence of this is that we have had a budget debate in the middle of the session – in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 384]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e735	The odelsting shall then be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e742	During the debate Knut Storberget, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, put forward the proposal contained in the vote, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e771	To the third subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Consumer Purchases Act shall be amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 1 shall be replaced by the following:Consumer means a natural person who is not principally engaged in business. [[consumer purchase law]] The consumer shall also be regarded as an association which is not principally engaged in business activities, provided that the contract serves the personal purposes of its members.’;» The Central Party has announced their support for this proposal. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they are going against the Committee's position on the fourth paragraph. In the first place, there is an alternative between the setting of the third paragraph and the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e796	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e803	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e810	So let's take the vote up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e822	So we're going to vote over the fourth term. Here, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e827	Could the president repeat the voting theme?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e834	So we have to vote over the fourth term, and here the Right and Christian People's Party have marked that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e846	It is voted over the other paragraphs of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e1080	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 17 shall be replaced by the following:§ 17 Things sold ‘as it is’Agreement that the item has been sold ‘as it is’ or with similar general reservations shall not be weighted in the assessment of the defect.’; The centre party has indicated that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e1260	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The second paragraph of Section 29 shall be replaced by the following:In determining whether costs are unreasonable within the meaning of the second sentence of the first subparagraph, attention shall be paid to the value of a defect, the meaning of the defect and whether other powers can be exercised without significant disadvantage to the consumer.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e1277	The first and third paragraphs are addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e1391	For the new third subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 38 new third paragraph is replaced by the following: advance payment in consumer purchases may be agreed only if there are specific reasons the seller can document. Such special reasons will exist if the seller needs financing in order to complete the product, or for reasons of time or the nature of the product it makes reasonable advance payment.The third and fourth subparagraphs become the fourth and fifth subparagraphs.» There is a vote on this proposal first, then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e1484	There is an aberrant proposal for the heading and for the third paragraph, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 42, the heading is replaced by the following:§ 42 Return after delivery. The third paragraph of Section 42 is replaced by the following:If otherwise agreed, the consumer has the right to exchange the item within 14 days of the delivery of the item. On exchange, the consumer can choose between another thing with value equal to the purchase price or a right to a corresponding reduction in the price of another purchase by the seller within one year of returning the item [[receipt]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e1505	It goes over the first and second paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e1737	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left: the proposal reads: ‘The second paragraph of Article 62 shall be replaced by the following:The law shall apply to agreements concluded before the law enters into force.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2052	Here, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they are in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2064	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2074	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2080	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 3, by Gunn Karin Gjul on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, from André Kukkestad on behalf of the Progress Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, says: «The Government asks the Government to amend the rules on free legal aid so that, when a party is admitted to free trial in child distribution proceedings, the other party shall also be free of charge if his income does not exceed the income limit for free legal aid by NOK 100000.» Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government requests that the amount of revenue be increased by the Government in order to receive free legal aid to NOK 250000 from 1 January 2003.’;» Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government requests the increase in income limits in order to receive free legal aid to NOK 230000 from 1 January 2003.’;» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2128	The President will vote on proposal No. 1, from Right and Christian People's Party, to Section 3. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law 13 June 1980 No. 35 on free legal aid is amended as follows:Section 3, title, is replaced by: Compensation for assistance. Own contribution.§ 3, second paragraph, is replaced by the following:For work paid by the public, no remuneration may be claimed or received by the client other than a special contribution as provided for in the regulation given by the ministry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2189	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2199	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2215	B and C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10-lower.ana.ud1627e2226	There is no record.
