ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e69	From the representative of Dagrun Eriksen, there is an application for welfare leave from 2 December to 6 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Sigmund Kroslid, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Sigmund Kroslid is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e90	The representative of Åsa Elvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e93	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Gunnar Ballo, Hallgeir Langeland, Heidi Sørensen and myself, I would like to propose to manage the royal crab as an undesirablely introduced species.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e98	The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e101	On behalf of the representative, Mr Haga and myself, I would like to propose a better control of food products and a clear indication of the country from which the food comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e106	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e120	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e127	Three board members from the Progress Party, Christopher Stensaker, Øyvind Korsberg and Karin S. Woldseth, have tabled a proposal to postpone the possible transfer of the state archive of the Nordland county from the State Archives in Trondheim until this matter is better explained. However, a broad majority of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs has come to the conclusion that the proposal to move the Nordic part of the State Archives in Trondheim should not only be postponed, but that the Nordic part should remain in Trondheim in the future. It was the Ministry of Culture that, on a proposal from the National Archives in its time, proposed a transfer of this part of the State Archives to Tromsø. It can be said that there were good reasons to think in those paths. In this way, a more streamlined state archival landscape with more equal units would be achieved at the various state archives. A transfer could provide a better balance between the two institutions in terms of mission volumes, while at the same time it would mean a relief at the Trondheim State Archives and provide opportunities for better use of capacity in Tromsø. As regards the argument that led to a transfer of responsibility for the Nordlandsarchives to Tromsø, this is set out in more detail in the two letters from the ministry to the committee attached to the vote. However, once the Committee has reached a different conclusion and does not want a transfer as proposed, it has a lot to do with history. The Nordic archives have always been in Trondheim. When its own administration was established for North Norway in the 1800s, the archives were not included. That's why people in Northern Ireland have in time been used to traveling south to Trondheim when they were going to seek knowledge of their past. In Trondheim, knowledge and competence in the processing and management of these archives have been built up over time. Accessibility is an important keyword. From the research environment at the University of Bodø, a strong recommendation has been made that the Nordlandsarchivet should remain in Trondheim, precisely because of the availability both for researchers and for people most in the county. In this context, I refer you to the contact from the institution Arkiv in Nordland, which is also attached to the position. Here it is pointed further to the disadvantage it would be if the archives in the future were to be shared between Trondheim and Tromsø, because parts of the oldest archives would not benefit from being moved. And even if they can be micro-photographed, it has been claimed that parts of the material because of poor quality as could not be used for research. It must be admitted that it has been difficult to know how much weight you should put on this, as the opposite can probably be claimed. However, it has not been demonstrated that there would be higher operating costs if the Nordland archive were to be placed at one or the other option. Furthermore, the Committee has not chosen to place a decisive emphasis on the introduction of a new building in Tromsø, where it has rightly been taken into account that the Nordlands archive will be moved there. This is a building that is listed as an integral part of the University of Tromsø, where there is currently considerable expansion. From an overall state point of view, an overall committee believes that it should not be difficult to find other possibilities of use for the superfluous premises. It has been shown that both the transfer and the planned construction have been mentioned in previous large-scale documents, without any attention being paid to this. The stork may take on its coat that no one has taken hold of this earlier. That's probably because, in terms of the different documents, we've focused on completely different things, and that's why this has almost been viewed as a marginal point of view. This has allowed it to pass, so to speak, without being noticed. Finally, I would like to touch on a point that I believe concerns this matter, namely the planned new building combined with the renovation of the old state archives building in Trondheim. These plans may seem to provide too short a time-frame for the future expansion of the State Archives in Trondheim, without any time to go into this in this context. However, with this in mind, the majority of the Committee has allowed itself to point to another option, namely Dora, which contains huge premises with virtually unlimited space, and which, with some suggestions, could easily accommodate a single state archive for the four states concerned. It is known that a new public building is planned in view of a larger ABM centre in this complex. Here I would just like to refer to the remarks and to a letter from the municipality of Trondheim to the rapporteur who is at the time of the vote. The Ministry has been informed that a broad majority of the Committee does not recommend the transfer of the Nordland State Archives to Tromsø, and is therefore in agreement with this. The position is in an annotated form and therefore goes beyond the proposal for a postponement by the representatives of the Progress Party, which is hereby proposed in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e153	The Swedish archivist's proposal to add the State Archives of the Nordic countries to the State Archives of Tromsø was first launched in St. meld. No 22 for 1999-2000 ‘Sources of knowledge and experience’. In the setting from Stortinget, Innst. S. No 46 for 2000-2001, it is not possible to see that the Committee and the Storting were concerned about this issue. I want to commend those who have taken this up, because we in Nordland were not comfortable moving the archive from Trondheim to Tromsø. People from Northern Ireland have had a good relationship with Trondelag for several years, and have received the service and help they need at all times. So many people will ask themselves, why doesn't Nordland want this archive in North Norway along with the other states? No, that's actually a good reason. It could have happened in the moving process that the archive was shared with a part in Trondheim and a slightly larger part in Tromsø, which for us in Nordland would have been very unfortunate. Furthermore, we believe that the service we have in Trondheim, which I mentioned, we are very pleased with. Communication is also a better option for Trondheim. To Tromsø you have to travel by plane, which everyone knows is quite expensive, or you can, of course, use a car. Trondheim has – than for so long – an opportunity to use trains, which, of course, is better for students who live on student loans and who do not have their own car. The University of Bodø, which we hope will eventually become a university, has an active historical environment. When the University of Bodø becomes a university, and it is allowed to provide education at the bachelor and master levels also in the history field, it will be very topical with an easily accessible archive, where you have experience with good archival knowledge. Personally, I think the arguments for the proposal for moving the Nordlands archive are bad. There shall be no reason to move that the costs of extending the building capacity in Trondheim are too large. It is believed that saving money can be achieved by making the situation of the Nordic population worse. You don't do that, neither against people, nor against valuable records. I am very pleased with the initiative of the rapporteurs, and also with the work of the rapporteur. The Storting, in agreement with the department, will now actually scrape the proposal to move the Nordlands part of the State Archives in Trondheim to Tromsø, which we in Nordland are very pleased with. And finally, this has nothing to do with localization debates between Nordland and Troms!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e172	Document No The 8-proposal for the transfer of the Nordlands part of the State Archives in Trondheim to the State Archives in Tromsø does not contain any principal conditions that make the matter particularly difficult for the Center Party. The party agrees with the proposers that there can be many good reasons for a new review of the case, not least in the context of new reviews of alternative site selections in Trondheim and clearly expressed professional assessments. But we have also noted the comments and conclusions of the ministry and the national archivist in a letter to the committee dated as late as November 13th. Letter from the University of Tromsø underpins the same conclusion. When the centre party ended up in a minority in this case, it is precisely with the background of the need we see for a new review and impact assessment as the proposers originally requested. In fact, we think it is a little daring of the majority to overlook several of the professional assessments and so unequivocally go in to keep the Nordlands department of the State Archives in Trondheim in violation of the ABM message, and the recommendations both the Council of State and the National Antiquities give in their letter to the Committee. As I said, the Senterpartiet asks the Ministry to carry out the impact studies requested by the proposers, before a final decision is taken on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e181	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 549]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e196	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are treated together. [[See page 549]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e227	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e236	Let me first say that this time, too, there is a very thorough report we get for treatment in Stortinget. There is also reason to stress when we take this debate today, that it is the day we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the Ministry of the Environment. When I say that in this context, it also has an pictorial significance, that issues relating to the management of marine resources have had a very increasing attention, an attention that probably has never been greater than it is today. I think in many ways we should be very happy and satisfied with that. We're just seeing that this case that we're dealing with today, if we go back 30 years in history, has been largely overtaken by relatively significant silence. That is why I am pleased that these questions have now received considerable attention. There is no doubt that when we use the concept of the environment in these issues, we all know that the opportunities of the marine sector go hand in hand with the environmental standard we are able to produce in the waters where we are to harvest wild fish together with other nations. If we do not succeed in these questions, we know that we will never get close to achieving the goals we have set ourselves on behalf of the marine sector in Norway. We have seen that this is a sector that has the greatest potential compared to sectors in any other industry with which we had to choose to compare it. We've seen that we've been and are in a situation where it's fine. We see that we have not been able to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves on behalf of the marine sector. Even in cooperation with other countries, the management of marine resources has not been sufficiently successful. I'm glad we're now seeing that these questions get a bigger and a more central place. I'm pretty sure in these questions we'll be better off in the years to come. If we are to be able to achieve the economic goals we set, there are two questions that, in my opinion, are absolutely crucial. It is that we can contribute to the growth and development of this sector, this marine sector, while growth and development in Coast Norway can go hand in hand with this, and that we put the precautionary principle ahead of short-term economic interests. This is where we first and foremost have the conflict going. If we are to succeed, we also have to succeed in rebuilding populations that are now at a minimum and that in some cases are below minimum. That's an important assumption. I mention another one in parentheses, because it's not up to treatment today. It is the concept of ‘market access’. It is important that we continue the work we are doing to get international traffic rules in place on these issues. It is important that we continue the positive development we have in bilateral cooperation in the fisheries sector with Russia. It is also important that we succeed even better in the negotiations and in the fisheries policy cooperation we have with the European Union. Here it is a long and difficult way to go forward before we can say that we have achieved the objectives and principles we should have laid down in an international regulation. We've seen that by making a thorough effort to build solid governance, getting a monitoring principle in place and getting a lot more of cheating and crime alive, we're on the right track. We have sufficient experience historically to say that adding to the advice and recommendations we get from research teams has not brought us on the right track to any particular degree. Finally, I would just like to say that with regard to the delegations holding negotiations with other countries in the fisheries policy context, it is not my wish that these should grow somewhat. I believe the principles that are being respected today are satisfactory. If they are to be assessed, it must not be in the form of larger, smaller and less marked that those who have special interests in these negotiations should be those who are closest and advisers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e259	I am pleased that such matters as this create commitment and interest among big business representatives, but I must say that fishing and fishing resources do not capture at all the interest in the population and the media to which the values and prospects should be attached. Fishing is often referred to as the industry to be the largest when the oil age is phased out. This shows the great potential for value creation and exports in the fisheries, and what increase we can expect in value creation, not because we can absorb more fish from the sea, but because we're going to be more and more good at exploiting what we're taking up from the sea. Although we will continue to be able to grow more and more — including of new species — wild fish stocks will continue to form the basis for our fisheries. This means that we have to manage the fish resources so that we can harvest them in the future. A large part of the fish happens on populations that we share with other countries. This makes international agreements absolutely necessary to ensure the sustainable taxation of resources. Without Norway being able to reach agreements with other countries, we have no management of this important resource. Therefore, the agreements are important, and we need to do a good job, so that understanding of the stock situation is the same for the parties to the agreement. I think it says across all nations that the sea is not exhaustive, and that the resource, after all, is vulnerable. In the Committee we are concerned that the situation is serious for several bottom fish stocks in the North Sea, especially for North Sea cod. The government must receive strong support to focus on the reconstruction of stocks in the quota cooperation negotiations and the cessation of catches after the North Sea cod must also be considered in order to be able to build up the stock before it is too late. When we cooperate with other countries on the withdrawal of fishing resources and quotas, consideration for a sustainable stock must be given to the utmost importance. We can't have a situation where the uncertainty comes to light, and that we're taking the chance at outlets that we don't feel safe. The resources must be above short-term earnings and profits. So first of all, we have to make sure that stocks are built up in order to ensure long-term sustainability in the industry. Here, it also has to be cheated on with withdrawals. I'm very concerned about the importance of marine mammals for fisheries resources. I think too low a tax on marine mammals is very important for the fishing resources. In this context, I refer to a unanimous increase, which earlier this year looked at the need to increase the take-off of sales and to exploit their products. No one disagrees that we should have a sustainable stock of marine mammals, too, but everything suggests that we have a lot to go on here. It must not stop due to the deposition and exploitation of the products of the marine mammals. Therefore, it must be actively worked for, inter alia, to provide for the export of products of these species. These are high-value and good goods that should be of great interest to the export market. Not least the pharmaceutical industry will benefit from such products, and here we are also talking about high-quality food. In order for the Storting to be able to follow the agreements Norway has with other countries on fish with sufficient insight, it is important that the information provided to the Storting is the best available. Therefore, we support a request that future stocking notifications on such cases provide an insight into recommended and established quotas for the main stocks, and recommended and actual fish pressure in terms of stock development for the main stocks. In the case of Document No: 8:156, which is also currently being treated, is closely associated with St. Announcement. No Thirty-six. From the Workers' Party we have nothing to add here beyond what is in the settings of the Storing Message. But I want to say that in international negotiations we cannot leave the negotiating mandates open to everyone. Negotiations are giving and taking, and then you have to follow a negotiating strategy. I have confidence that the government is doing this properly, and that the information the Storting gets is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e280	Norway and Russia were not long after some of the new allowances agreements for 2003 when they apply to the stocks they manage. They were – not surprisingly – some to continue the agreement of 395 000 tonnes of Norwegian-Arctic cod and 40000 tonnes of coastal cod. Researchers have said that the allowances in this three-year agreement are much higher than that they might be in line with the precautionary principle. I mean, someone likes to set cod quotas too high. If I'm going to try to stay away from the number for once, the reality is that a set of quotas is high above the recommendations of the researchers. The reality is that there is so little coastal cod left that most of it is going to be fished as Norwegian-Arctic cod. The reality is that we're approaching a critical outlet, if one wants the cod to be able to reproduce. The reality is that the young cod classes we're about to start fishing in three to four years are very thin. This should mean that a reduced quota already this year. But it hasn't. Let me make it clear: I didn't enter an extreme position this time – on the contrary. What I say here is even equivalent to what the Directorate-General for Fisheries has said to the Minister for Fisheries in advance of the negotiations, if one is to believe the NTB message that has been sent out about it. It is also in this context that we deal with the setting of a unanimous nutrition committee that comments on the four-year quota with formulations such as the following: ‘The Committee stresses that the management of cod stocks must be carried out in such a way as to bring fish mortality and spawning stock below the pre-war limit.’ And... ‘The Committee wishes to underline the importance of Norway’s commitment to sustainable management in any fisheries policy cooperation on the allocation and management of common stocks.The Committee notes that the results of the negotiations have been put at a level above the recommendations of research teams and emphasises that the main principle for future negotiations should be to give priority to the restoration of stocks.’ Last year it was the first time that the nutrition committee thought it was worth putting itself away in the agreed quotas. It has a weighty look-up in newspapers, among other things. The newspaper and the evening post. We say about the same thing this year as last year. We want to get away in, but we don't have any other venue but to comment on an annual report on the snow as a fall last year. I am very pleased that the Committee encourages the Government to get more relevant information on the table in relation to it. We do not have an evaluation and self-search at all in this message. It is a sensible practice to consider whether one of them has seen one, assess whether the means of achieving the goals are correct, and assess whether something could have been done differently. When you read the message, you might get the impression that everything is in the best order, and that there is no reason to change anything. So the committee doesn't agree. I would like to make it clear that I am satisfied with the Committee's attitude to St.meld. No 36, but I have to admit that I think it is a bit funny that the same committee does not see the link between our attitude to previous allowances agreements and the proposals for reform measures for future quota negotiations that SV has made. I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding why the committee is not interested that the Storting should be more involved when we are so critical of the outcome of previous processes. Troubleshooting about how we manage our resources is the most important policy-makers can deal with. An industry that is not resilient is an industry that prioritises short-term economic gains without regard to a maximum of resources in the long term. It's a policy to choose whether to facilitate long-term or short-term profitability, and then it's not enough with fine words in a big deal. Then you have to make real priorities. I'm overindulging that even though there are no multiple sizes in Storting today to make major changes in the way quota negotiations with other countries take place, there is a development that forces itself. Fortunately, international trends are on my side on this issue. I want to record the SV's suggestions that have been distributed in the setting and ask for them to be converted to the transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e312	The representative Elvik has addressed the proposals for amendment to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e315	In all the management of marine resources, there is the resilient fallout that must lie at the bottom. And when we negotiate with neighbouring countries to manage these resources, it's important to keep in mind that this is a resource that's going to be forever. If we don't power it, if we can't get to a resilient cough, this resource will slide out of our hands and not become the industry with great potential that many think it will be. But it's clear that there are also many other things that play in relation to whether this is going to be the future gold industry in Norway. With some of the policies being pursued today, and not least the policies that have been pursued in the past, I very much doubt whether we are able to exploit the potential of the fisheries industry as a whole – unfortunately. We've seen that we haven't had a viable cough. I guess we'll experience that in particular in the North Sea, where cod fishing is now closely connected. I understand that there is a problem, but one of the first governments here in the negotiations has to deal with is this with drafts. The EU countries are unbelievably good and snares to throw, and it is clear that if we throw fish at the sea, we will not fall into the trap of being resilient. I also want to talk a little bit about the marine mammals. The representative Arnesen was also involved. I want to say it so strongly that we can't get a viable fall in the marine resources if we can't now develop the capture of sales and pain. It's so serious, I think, that if we don't get the self-anxiety back on, it'll go against an ecological disaster. It's going to be a little bit of a vision when we maybe get another selinvation on the Norwegian coast. I was told yesterday that the last time it was selinvation, it was probably 60,000 harnesses that died in yarns. Of course, it's a disaster, but it shows what dimensions we're talking about when there's so many numbers. That's why I think it's important that the Council of State and the Government now start thinking about, is how we're going to be able to reconstruct the self-afraid. Is it possible that those who drive with shrimp trawlers, which today are the boats that travel in the ice, can get some carrots that make them find it interesting to drive spontaneously the four-five-six weeks it is driven self-anxiously? I want to warn against building up a new fleet of ocean shells that require new quotas in other areas, for it goes without saying that it is not possible to live by self-afraid alone. One must have other types of fish to go on. Then it'll be better to go in and try to give some carrots to those who are already in the industry. I would also like to mention that we should perhaps renegotiate agreements with Russia when it comes to royal crabs. I notice that there was a proposal in the Stortinget earlier today, at the opening of the meeting, that went through this. It's also important. In the case of Document No: 8:156, I fully share the opinions and attitudes expressed by the representative Arnesen and the representative Kristiansen. We trust that the negotiations will be taken seriously here. I don't see any reason to let them be open, corked for tactical or other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e330	The issues we are dealing with today, fisheries agreements and cooperation that Norway has concluded with other countries, are being met with increasing interest both in the United Kingdom and in the general public. It's in itself positive. The Christian People's Party is also satisfied with the international attention given to the management of fishing resources and control issues. For the Christian People's Party, it is clear that the principle of sustainable management is the main objective of striving for when we conclude fisheries cooperation agreements with other countries. However, it is not obvious that this is easy to achieve in practice, when many countries are involved and there are more pressing concerns. Firstly, it is very important that we focus on getting the most accurate knowledge of the different populations and how much is taken out, and in what way. The agreements we have concluded with, inter alia: The EU and Russia, control and satellite tracking are an important step in the right direction. Secondly, we need to put more effort into developing international rules against resource crime. There is a need for an international regulatory framework for management, control and reporting that can more effectively counteract: quota jack so-called unregulated fishilly purchases and sales of fish As already mentioned, in the fisheries negotiations Norway has agreed with Russia to continue the agreement on a total quota of 395 000 tonnes of Norwegian Arctic cod. To this end, an overall committee stresses that the management of cod stocks must be carried out in a way that ensures that fish mortality and spawning stock are brought below the commodity limit. A good measure here is the working group set up by the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission to develop management strategies for Norwegian Arctic cod. We know that the outcome of the negotiations for the cod in the Barents Sea has been put at a level above the recommendations of the research team. At the same time, it is in line with the recommendations of the researchers regarding the risk of collapse in the stock and the level of fish mortality. Reconstruction of the Norwegian-Russian cod population is, in the Committee's view, one of the most important fisheries policy issues. At the same time, we need to emphasise that this is a question that needs to be resolved in cooperation between Russia and Norway. We know that the situation of the cod population in the North Sea is very serious, yes, the population is characterised by the researchers as collapsing. Here, long-term work is needed to rebuild the population, in cooperation with, among other things. EU. It is also important to work to establish agreements for the management and fair allocation of allowances for coal and for mackerel. Finally, for the Christian People's Party, the principle of sustainable governance is the most weighty. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee underlines that for Norway, the sustainability of management must be given priority in any fisheries policy cooperation on quota allocation and management of common stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e361	Last year, in the context of fisheries agreements concluded with other countries, last year, the position of the Industry Committee is marked by the desire for a stronger focus on sustainable development. Now it is enough that there may be a discussion between the parties about what is ‘sustainability’, but this setting, like last year’s, expresses strong concern about what is happening to population development, both in the case of common populations and in the case of own populations. The signals coming from, among others: research teams are becoming increasingly clear not only in the cod but also in our own populations. In this way, I think the setting is important. But I still miss the opportunity in the Storting to see fisheries policy issues in context. What we do of fisheries agreements throughout the year is a joint management and resource control, but it also applies to our own national resource control and management for the future. Therefore, I think it could be important for the Storting to get a greater degree of opportunity for a comprehensive debate on fisheries policy issues in such a context as well. The comments in the setting are then also imprinted from among others. Center Party off. I agree with the points made by the rapporteur that the precautionary principle must be based on what we have in negotiations with other countries, but also on our own administration. I would like to remind you that the precautionary principle in the fisheries policy context must also be about how to carry out fishing and how to structure the fisheries nationally. These are things that we hopefully come back to in other contexts as well. In the case of Innst. S. No 44, I also want to say in connection with it that how we conduct negotiations with Russia is crucial for our common stocks, but it is also essential in relation to the national fisheries management. It is therefore important that the majority say that this should be managed in line with the precautionary principle and that regional authorities should be involved in the process to a greater extent than in the past. I think that's positive, and that's important. But once again, the Central Party lacks an opportunity for the Storting not only to be able to discuss the ongoing fisheries policy issues. This is not just about international negotiations; it is about one of our most important national resources and resource policy issues. And I must be allowed to say that the government's ability to draw the Storting into the discussion of these questions has so far not been impressive. The centre party is not on proposal No. 2 from the SV of the Innst. S. No 44, but we'll support it. However, we do not find it natural to support the proposal to include non-governmental organisations in the Norwegian-Russian negotiations. That, I think, is a proposal that goes beyond what should be a reasonable reason, when otherwise one sees a willingness to involve both regional authorities and, where appropriate, the Storing stronger in the work. As regards the review of fisheries agreements, there is a request for the Government to provide the Storting with a broader information, both on the objectives set and on the longer-term stock development figures, in the context of the annual forecast notification of these agreements. That request, like other representatives here in the Chamber, I would like to stress the importance of the follow-up of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e376	Today we are dealing with the fisheries agreements we have concluded with other countries. In this regard, it is worth noting that we should have been in the Western Nordic Council. There should also have been negotiations between Norway and the countries that share a national resource. We're a great force on the ocean. It has already been expressed from this pulpit. The herring and mackerel negotiations are among the negotiations mentioned in the communication we are discussing today. We should have been more involved in the distribution of herring and mackerel in the Norwegian zone, of which we give away large quantities. And we're not just talking about tons, we're talking about money. We are talking about the largest industry in Norway in terms of employment, namely the fishing industry, and what we are talking about is money. And it gets clearer and clearer, even in this room, that it's about money. That's what we're negotiating. From the Right and Advance Party and partly also the Workers' Party we talk about profitability in the industry. It shall be profitable for people to ‘go to sea’. If people with 35 feet of shark find it profitable to go to sea, is it profitable for them? I guess it's also profitable for someone who has a small boat to go to sea. After all, it should not be profitable for those who sit and swing high glass with a stick on the Aker Bridge, to look after their fishermen who are out fishing. Was that the profitability you were talking about? We talk about the profitability of the individual when we talk about the fisheries agreements. And that's money. We're talking about shrimp, and we're talking about fish. There have just been negotiations in Nyvågar in the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission and they have agreed on a cod quota. Leave the cod quota at the highest level. It is possible that it is, but it is also possible that it is not. At least that's what makes it possible to do the necessary fishing. What is our greatest concern in the Barents Sea is that the cod that spawns is getting younger and younger. In the past, the cod was seven to eight years when it spawned, now it is completely down for five years when it spawns. It's a problem. And that's what Stortinget should notice. We have an unregulated fishing in the Barents Sea that is not registered by either Russian or Norwegian authorities. There are boats that are loading on factory trawlers that go to the continent. And it's not registered anywhere. We don't know how much percent it represents of the Russian cod quota. This is what the Norwegian delegation knows about, but they're not talking about it at all. We have satellite tracking, i.e. satellite surveillance of fishing vessels within the Norwegian zone. I would like to see that the same tracking had been used for oil cargoes carried from the Barents Sea and down the Norwegian coast. I have reviewed this again after I have finished in Stortinget. I have been informed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Question Time that we are to extend the territorial border from four to twelve nautical miles, and we are to have the sailing leader down, but what about the tracking outside the territorial border? Is it the defense to have the vessel monitored there, and not the Ministry of Fisheries? When the fish swim in the sea, it's the Ministry of Fisheries's problem. But when the fish are on board the boat, it is the police’s problem. Then you are notified, because as soon as you have got the fish on board the boat, you are a cellar ring. It doesn't have to be like this. I would have liked to see that we had got control of the shipping traffic that goes along the Norwegian coast, both outside and inside. Inside we need to have ropeboats that follow the boatloads. We can't risk getting a coast paved with soft asphalt. We're just done in Chile. We're done with CITES. They have increasingly addressed fisheries areas. We have organizations like IUCN and WWF that advise on CITES. And we give money to them. We're going to adopt a government budget where we're going to give money to these organizations, even though they're countering Norwegian interests. I must also say a few words on the proposal in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The Barents Sea Committee in the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature has been placed in the Board of Regulators and decides on the fishing quotas in Norwegian waters. If they get room in the mixed Norwegian-Russian fisheries commission, I see no reason why they should be there, because they are not going to give their way at all. [[The President clubs.]] Åsa Elvik presented a paper today on the royal crab. Yes, I must remind the President that I have promoted the same proposal in the last big time period. It was voted down by Stortinget, but that does not mean that it is going to be voted down today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e402	The President, on his side, must be reminded that speaking time is available in order to be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e406	There are two main objectives for fisheries management: ecological sustainability and stability. Fortunately, in recent years there has been an increasing focus on and debate on fisheries cooperation with other countries, particularly Russia, and in this context in particular the management of Norwegian-Arctic cod. I think that is very positive because it reflects the important position that the fisheries sector currently has in Norwegian society. At the same time, it's important that we not only look back, but also look forward. I'm going to be the first to admit that this is not a simple discussion. This is due, inter alia, to: that we have a concept that is not clear enough, and it is therefore difficult to establish a clear, common understanding of contexts and the sharing of responsibilities between biological counselling, management challenges and policy objectives. I therefore find it wrong to claim, as the representatives of the population of Elvik and Sørensen do, that the administration ‘of the Norwegian-Russian communities cannot today be said to be ecologically or economically sustainable’. Sustainable resource management is and will continue to be a key objective of the Government in the fisheries negotiations we conduct with other countries. This has also been fixed several times against Stortinget, and in this way there is no change in the policy that this government is pursuing in relation to previous governments and fisheries ministers. Should the industry be able to realise its full potential and be viable and a supporter of the Norwegian economy after the oil age ends, we need to use sustainability. So does that. At the same time, however, this overall consideration, sustainability, must also meet the needs of industry for maximum predictability and stability, precisely in order to achieve both ecological and economic sustainability. This is clearly better in Norway than most fishing nations. This with the appointment of the delegations of the fisheries negotiations in Norway has been addressed. In my view, a balanced assessment based essentially on the representation of the parties concerned, the need for the delegation to be of a manageable size and the need to take into account the tactical considerations of the negotiations. I refer in that context to, among other things, The comments of the representative, Kristiansen, are as follows: Who should be considered as ‘the parties concerned’, is something that needs to be assessed on an independent basis from year to year. During this year's fisheries negotiations with Russia, for example, for the first time invited a representative of the county rapporteurs to the Norwegian delegation. Prior to the negotiations, I had also for the first time invited the environmental protection organisations and the county rapporteurs to each of their broad dialogue and orientation meetings. I share the Committee's concern, as the representative Arnesen also stressed in his statement, about the situation of several species of bottomfish in the North Sea, and especially cod. However, if we have not come as far as the north, it is right to say that fisheries cooperation with the EU has gone in the right direction in recent years, but at the same time it is important that we take inwards that the EU has 87 psts. of the cod resource, while we only have 13 pst. As a result of the cod crisis, Norway and the EU have previously concluded their own agreements to improve the pattern of taxation in the North Sea, and in this context a number of regulatory technical measures are also included. It is too early to say anything about the full effect of it, but there is no doubt that this contributes to reconstruction. In this context, there is, as many have pointed out, a huge problem related to the design of fish. The situation has remained unchanged from last year to this year, and it is one of the most unresolved problems in fisheries cooperation with the EU. I can guarantee that, from the Norwegian side in the course of the process, as at present, in all relevant forums dealing with the EU, we will claim and believe that draft injunctions are completely contrary to all reasonable administrative principles. The Committee asks in its opinion that we consider the content of future large-scale communications. In this context, I would like to point out, which the Committee is probably aware of, that a good part of the information requested is easily accessible reports from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. What both the committee and I have to ask is how extensive we will be making the big deal. Will it be sufficient for us to provide clearer references to where the information is available on the relevant data? But from my point of view, I have based the recommendation and the bid that came from Stortinget – I myself was in the nutrition committee at the time – on what the notification should contain, namely to be as factual as possible and to have an objective presentation of the fisheries negotiations we are conducting with other countries, and the implementation of the fisheries under the agreements that these negotiations result in, regardless of the government that may sit at the table. Given the very complex nature of these issues, I believe that attempts to give a normative content to the notification in addition to the descriptive content are difficult to achieve, but we should, to the best of our ability, try to carry out the assessments that the Committee asks me to do. That's what I got so far. [[The President clubs.]] I can comment more if there's any occasion for that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e432	I mentioned this in my post with self-afraid. I want to stress it a little bit, because I think of self-afraid as very important in order for us to be able to get a stock of the different species of fish that makes us able to house them and find profitability in it. We can't just sit in the armchair and think that this isn't a problem. So I'd like to challenge the Council of State a little bit on this with self-afraid. What are his thoughts? Is there any work going on in the department and in external offices to figure out how to get this industry back on its feet? Because we must say that she almost has a broken back – someone will probably say that she does. This year I don't think there was a single shot out on the field from my edges of the country, More. It was a heavy self-anxious environment on the coast of Moravia from the old by. I think it was only Tromsø shooters who were in the field this year. This means that competence is also in the process of disappearing. That is why it is so important that we take this seriously. Here I also think it is important to start conversations with other countries, so that they understand that if we do not take this problem seriously, they can, probably not too long, forget all international negotiations on quotas; there are no fish and quotas to distribute, because the harness supplies most.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e442	We can probably see that both the representative Solholm and I are aware of and are concerned about the development of marine mammals related to this with the fisheries management. Although, as I see it, we all agree that there are two overall objectives for fisheries management: ecological sustainability and a degree of stability that ensures that the industry feels fairly comfortable with the framework conditions from year to year – and we see it in a longer context that we provide security for the settlement, for those living along the coast – it is thus, in addition to the fisheries management as such, at least two elements that have been affected in the debate today, namely the management of the marine mammals and the management of the royal crab, which we must put in as a separate dimension in this context. I have started a work in the department where we now look at ecosystem management. Then we talk about both the coastal shelve and the selenium primarily in the Baltic Sea, and how we are going to achieve profitability in that industry – I refer to a debate earlier this year in this Chamber on precisely those issues – but first and foremost on how we are going to maintain fishing capacity. For one of the main problems with the management of marine mammals is not the number of animals for which we have quota, but we're going to be able to take out the quotas that are. So maintaining fishing competence, ensuring that quotas are withdrawn, both for coastline and for sales in the Baltic Sea, is a major challenge. That work I have started, and once we have come a long way further in that work, we will consider how the Storting should be involved in any future new marine mammals strategy. So a few words attached to royal crabs. There we make big changes in government from next year. We double the withdrawal, from 100,000 to 200,000 animals. We establish a western frontier, and we increase research. So this too we take very seriously, as part of the fisheries management.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e451	I am pleased that several representatives have addressed this with regard to the importance of marine mammals for the resource situation. I think we need to focus more on that in the future. But I'm of the opinion that we have a problem if we just talk about taking out, and not getting set aside on, the products, for this is, as I said in my post, high-quality products that people need out in the world, both in the pharmaceutical industry and for food. I know that there have been agreements with Iceland and the receipt and export of products. There have been negotiations as far as I understand, with Japan and some other countries. I could imagine asking myself what's going on in this area. Is there enough resources to get people and nations to focus more on the realities of the marine mammals and perhaps a little less on the emotional, which has been put at the forefront of this matter? Could the Council of State briefly explain what is being done and whether sufficient resources are being allocated to carry out this influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e458	The representative Arnesen brings in the market aspect, and so did the representative Kristiansen in his speech earlier today. Clearly, this is particularly relevant for an industry of 95 pst. exported and only a small part is included in the national consumption. In that case, the management of marine mammals must be put into an ecological context, but also an economic and market perspective. It is the primary responsibility of industry to develop products, but we have priority research and development through the next year's budget, as well as for the previous year. In this context, of course, the whole of the fishing industry is included. However, there is a significant challenge in exploiting selenium as a food resource as well as in using the skin, possibly using the marine mammals in another context, whether in medical, cosmetic or other industries, in which they naturally become a component. When it comes to the sale of meat – and then I realized that it was primarily what meat was about – we have opened up, and it has started, the export of meat to Iceland. We've opened up and helped promote, get started, export to Japan. There have been a number of meetings with authorities and with stakeholders. There's Japan that's the obstacle. We've done what's possible, and we're keeping the pressure that's possible. We have also received an enquiry from the Faroe Islands regarding the possible import of whale meat. There is a problem that we have a dialogue with the Faroe Islands about, as well as with the Danish-Faero Islands Community. Because there are a number of issues that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e465	Because I recognise that the Council of State and I are hardly going to discuss democratic participation in and publicity in the Norwegian-Russian quota negotiations, I would like to ask the Council of State a relatively simple question: is the Council of State comfortable with the debate that has been going on here today, the position that has come from the Committee, and in particular the case-speaker's statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e470	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e475	That was a short and simple answer. The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e482	I had actually drawn myself a line. But then I take a three-minute post – it's just as okay, so the Council of State will have to consider whether he will answer it. Firstly, I understand that it was tempting for the Minister for Fisheries in the last line just to answer yes. But I have to say that I think that the answer to a new representative in Stortinget who is sincerely interested in these questions, and who also wants to get a more detailed view of the Minister's position on the rapporteur's observations and on the Committee's comments, was perhaps a little scarce. It also showed a little little respect for a new representative to do it that way. I take the floor because I was a little over a thing that the minister said related to the Committee's comments. The Committee clearly states in its position that we are concerned about the sustainability of the management of the common stocks. We also stress that one of the main principles of future negotiations must be to give priority to the reconstruction of stocks. Then the Committee has a request asking the Government to assess whether a broader information, a more thorough information, can be provided to the Stortinget than has so far been in the fisheries agreements. We also say that we want that as a basis for a discussion of the more general fisheries policy objectives that we have. So the Council of State in its statement says that there is a lot of information available on the market. I was a little over it, because I hope the minister understands the difference between the information the Storting could find on its own in public, open sources, and what the Storting wants the Government to provide to the Storting as information. There's a significant difference between the two things. The Committee here is to ask the Government to consider providing that information to the Stortinget. And that's something other than that Stortinget should be able to search the Internet on its own or elsewhere. I would like to know whether the Council of State and the Ministry have understood that this is what we are asking for, and that we are also asking for a fresh assessment of the treatment of this communication on fisheries policy agreements in the Storting against what has been the tradition over the years. That is precisely what we are asking for: we are asking for a review of whether this should not also be the basis for a more detailed discussion of the objectives and management of fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e496	Some brief comments on the last article. At the same time, let me make a visit to my very brief reply to the previous replicator: there was nothing in it but that the representative would have a clear answer to a simple question. And my respect for the Storting is great. At the moment when the Council of State had answered something other than yes to a question of whether he has understood what the Committee says, it would have had dramatic consequences for the Council of State. That is why it is my best answer: yes, I understand what the committee is asking for. It is also about what the representative, Mr Arnstad, refers to, that I am asked to consider whether the content of future communications should be different from what they have been. The present communication is based on the work requested by the Committee and the European Parliament over a number of years. If the Committee wishes, as it is now signaled, to have a different content in the communication, I am open to considering it as requested by the Committee. Then I tried in my post to answer that by also pointing out that there is a lot of information in the modern information society that is easily accessible. And then the question is, to what extent are we going to repeat it at the expense of getting a very comprehensive message? It was an open invit from my side, and must also be perceived as such. With regard to the management of the various resources, I must point out that, in the case of Norwegian Arctic cod, through negotiations with Russia, we have established a new administrative regime that will apply from 2004 and that I feel is a very good instrument. I also see that the industry and researchers are meeting this with great expectations, that there will be a new regime that will ensure even more than now that we are going to bring down to the level of fish mortality, which is 0.42 but which will eventually be changed by ICES. This will be achieved within a time-frame that is sound, by taking into account the two considerations that I have tried to draw up: ecologically sound management and, at the same time, stability and predictability of the industry that ensures its settlement and that professionals in the industry feel a great deal of security. Therefore, I strongly stress that it has been a sound administration, but we have achieved a very long step in starting in 2000 with three-year agreements, with the creation of a professional group that has now made recommendations, and which results in that from 2004 we can now maintain value-added within a transparent period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e503	The debate is probably somewhat influenced, as it evolves, by the fact that we have two issues that are dealt with together. One goes on the message as such, which I think we all agree is presented in line with what was the premise – this message is a thorough and rich message. Then there's someone who wants even more content – and some other content – in this message. There's another debate. At the same time, we have this item, how we are going to organise the future negotiating delegation and the composition of the Norwegian side. Let me just repeat that a unanimous committee has said: ‘The Committee wishes to underline the importance of Norway’s giving priority to sustainable management in any fisheries policy cooperation on the allocation and management of common stocks.’ More powerful can't be said. And I believe it must be a text that SV and the Center Party must be completely satisfied with getting pressurised. The second thing I want to say is that I think we're making a mistake if we try to connect a negotiating delegation's composition with the results achieved in the real negotiations. There's a flaw in the logic in my opinion. I think we should be aware that the Norwegian negotiating delegation has representatives who appear to be the leading international experts in research and management. In my opinion, we also have the opportunity to evaluate. And we can say that information we have access to if we want to get it. If this information is to come within the same permes as the notification, we have asked the Ministry to carry out an assessment. I've realized that you're going to do that, too. But it has to be at least two parties in a negotiation, whether it's fishing or anything else we're going to negotiate, in order to achieve a result. And I feel that the focus that Stortinget has had on these questions has helped us not to achieve the optimal results, as two or more parties must be able to agree before signing a negotiation protocol. I think the Stortinget has achieved a stronger focus on these questions. It has also contributed to the fact that we are actually on the right track in these questions, although it is still a long, long way to go. But it depends to an even greater extent on nations other than Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e521	Just in order for there to be no doubt, I would like to repeat what I said in my main post: we are very satisfied with the position of the committee and with the work of the case-speaker. And let me add when it comes to the answer from the council, where he says he feels comfortable with what's coming out here today: I'm very satisfied with that. So let's not doubt it. I wonder why the case spokesperson has an interest in so doubting about it. Of course, there is a connection between how to organise the negotiations, who is allowed to participate in the negotiations, and the results. In this context, it is about who the Norwegian Governing Authority defines as the current party. Are there non-exhaustive researchers, board members and representatives of the Norwegian Fisheries Team, or are there other active parties in the fisheries negotiations with other countries? Of course, there is a link between how to organise this and the outcome of the negotiations. It should be quite clear from international environmental negotiations that the degree of openness, degree of participation and degree of democratic control have an absolute impact on the outcome. Here I realize that we are in a minority on Stortinget, but as I said in my main post: I am sure that international trends are on our side and work for us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e530	I just want to sign out, because a central point in one of the cases is the composition of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. I am very comfortable with the support of the majority in the United Kingdom, while listening to the key questions about whether the Commission and the way it works – composition, transparency – safeguard democratic considerations and representativity. Today, the Commission is managed by the Ministry of Fisheries. As has been said with regard to research and management in the world context, we have – because that is what we have on the Norwegian side. In addition, the industry is widely represented through the FHL, which has a representative there, through the LO and the Maritime Association, which have a representative there, and the fishing side has with the leader of the Norwegian Fisheries Team. They are also represented by a coastal fisherman and a marine fisherman, so that we have the professional approach as well. So it's like we've opened up for the first time to county rapporteurs. It is on the basis of my listening and being comfortable with the dialogue and discussion that has been, both here and in society, where one wants the regional level of administration, which has also been entrusted by this government to be a regional economic operator. And it's worked very well. Then I think that we have even more clearly met the democratic need and the transparency of the fact that those who represent the population of the coastal states have been given the task of being one of the foremost elected peoples. Then I also perceive that it is gratifying that this year I have opened a wide dialogue with the NGOs, and we had meetings where both the WWF, the Nature Conservation Association, Greenpeace, SABIMA and Bellona were represented. We felt that we had a good dialogue and a good discussion, and we were able to work better towards this concept instrument – complicated contexts. There, I think we have a lot to gain by having a good, open dialogue about this. We also conducted such consultations with all the rapporteurs. At the same time, however, we must innovate that the Constitution gives the Government responsibility for negotiating international agreements and treaties. Here we have regard to the Constitution to be observed. But such international negotiations as we do, among other things. with Russia and other countries on fisheries management and resource extraction, is not suitable for public meetings and full transparency, and I understand that there is an understanding in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e541	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[See page 549]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e557	The size has been invited today to decide that ESA will be empowered to control and review State aided enterprises. Is this a big deal for the Storting? No, in isolation, this is a rather small matter for Stortinget. There is no drama in this case. But when I take the floor, it's because I'm concerned that we get a case by case to the Storting where we give sovereignty to a supranational body. If the Storting had been presented all these things together, at once, I think there would be much more people in the hall, much more activity and more views on whether we are now on the right track, when in so many areas we give sovereignty to another body that we do not rule over the sea. That's why I want to warn you that we're taking this kind of thing lightly. We have to see the whole thing of it, and whether we as a nation are served that in the field by area we should give up authority in important matters that matter a lot to us. We do not promote any proposal, but I refer to the reference we have made in the form of a note together with the Centre Party. We point out that this is a development that worries us because we bit by bit become more unsavory in some important areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e566	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e582	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e598	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e605	This case concerns Document No. 8:107 for 2001-2002, led by the representatives Ola D. Glötvold and Eli Sollied Överaas from the Central Party and Sigbjørn Molvik from the Socialist Left Party. The issue of openness in the regional health services, that is to say, an open board meeting, with certain exceptions. The document alludes to the good objectives of the Sem Declaration in terms of health. The Committee notes that one of five health professionals has an open board meeting. When managing the hospital reform for a short time, Stortinget did not leave special leads for openness or not for the board meeting. The majority of the Committee has noted the content of the letter from Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten dated 18 October 2002, pointing out that it is an important principle that health care professionals are to be driven open and able to see and participate in the activities. The majority point out that it is particularly important that public opinion is guaranteed access to transparency and participation in its activities. The Council of State also informs in the same letter that users have been selected in the regional health services. The Christian People's Party is generally too open-minded in society its important organs. We believe that in most cases it is of the good. Together with the plurality of the committee, we have noticed that the Council of State in its letter announces that he will make statements and points of view when it comes to different practices in connection with the board meeting. We have asked that this work be done as quickly as possible, and that the open board meeting be evaluated in that context. The majority believe that when the Council of State, in cooperation with healthcare professionals, has made such a move, we must be able to wait for the Council of State to assess the matter before we finally take a position on the matter. We actually have to be able to do this either at this point in time, we're thinking about some solution. In fact, it is particularly striking that the Labour Party, with the former State Council of Tønne as the main driving force for the implementation of the hospital reform, will now impose an open board meeting, before one after one year of operation has given the former opportunity to assess the different experiences. This may indicate that the party did not do good enough work at the time, for it might have been clarified then, if a wish so wished. I am also aware that other companies than the one that has an open board meeting today will address the issue of an open board meeting. Personally, I would like to add that it would actually be best for healthcare professionals themselves to take up and discuss this and, if necessary, make decisions. I thought it would be good to follow the advice of the majority here, that one has respect for the health care provider's work and the Council of State's assessment and awaits this. With this I would recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e626	The reform of health, which meant the state takeover of specialist health services, was designed and adopted in order to ensure good and improved use of health funds, more patient care and clearer responsibilities. The provision of health services shall be a public responsibility in Norway: health businesses were given clearer and greater powers. State ownership management should be able to provide better opportunities than in the past to achieve national health policy objectives. Employees were guaranteed representation in corporate governance, and user influence was legalised. Health enterprises are welfare producers and shall not be operated for profit or dividends. A provision was adopted to prevent the formation of shares in the core activities of hospitals and to protect the core activities from separation and privatisation. All this implies that specialist health services must be operated with great transparency and transparency by the public in the decision-making process. Both the Administrative and Public Administration Act shall apply to the activities of undertakings subject to the provisions of the Administrative Act as regards employment, dismissal or other staff matters. This also gave a clear signal of transparency, even if it was not a praiseworthy public meeting – nor the opposite. The Labour Party – and I would like the rapporteur to note this – was not able to adopt its proposal for a Council body in which central regional politicians would have room, among others. to ensure regional influence on the development of specialist health services. This weakens the public's influence and transparency in the decision-making process. I, and the Labour Party, believe that the practice that is now in the process of establishing itself with closed board meetings does not support the requirement of transparency and participation. As far as I know, the experience is good from one regional health company that practises meeting publicity. It is difficult to see what is so dangerous about open board meetings, except for staffing, employment, dismissal and purely commercial matters, such as: works related to tenders, contract work at a preparatory stage, etc. It is essential that trust is good between a provider of welfare services and the population, which is one of several prerequisites for a successful health reform. Neither employees, patients, political actors nor the general public are made aware of business decisions and the basis for them. I am amazed that the government parties – the Christian People's Party and the Right – and the Advance Party do not see it in the same way. Well, it's only been a few years since we broke the Health Companies Act, but now that I see the impact of practices with closed board meetings across the country, it wasn't an intentional effect of the law. I agree with the rapporteur in the view that the best possible transparency should be exercised. I am also pleased with the signal given by the Council of State on a thorough review of this, in view of any change in practice. I'm recording that we already want to make a decision about greater transparency, formal transparency, doesn't seem to get a majority in Stortinget. I therefore stress the satisfaction at least with the fact that the Council of State has signalled very clearly that he wants to go into the matter. I think that is positive and affordable. In any case, and in the hope that it will have to be approved today, I take up the minority's proposals, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e645	The representative of Kristoffersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e648	Health undertakings are not like any other public undertaking. They're going to provide something so basic that we get the necessary health care when we need them. It is therefore obvious that health businesses should operate with transparency, facilitate transparency and participation and provide good information to the public. When the hospital reform was adopted, the companies themselves were asked to decide whether the board meetings were to be held for open or closed doors. The reform has worked for one year. At that time, it seems strange that changes to the reform should already be made – without this being part of a larger evaluation. In addition, the Minister of Health has stated clearly that he will return to Stortinget once experience and views have been gained on business practices for the winding-up of board meetings. Health enterprises have been active in the publication of case lists, minutes and press releases in connection with board meetings. Whatever the outcome, when the Minister of Health comes to Stortinget with an assessment of the winding-up of the Governing Board meetings, it is naive to believe that open meetings of the Governing Board are the only gratifying in terms of the public's ability to gain transparency in the different priorities and arrangements of undertakings. Probably what happens between the board meetings, and the process up to a board meeting, is very interesting and informative. It is therefore important that, for example: focuses on the ability of user groups to influence and to participate. The reform has, as I said, been effective for one year. When such a comprehensive reform is to be implemented, it is necessary to be wary of changes before they are really implemented. It can be disruptive — and changes are made without a background in experience. It is representatives of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party who support this proposal. However, the Labour Party also supports the proposal. Like the case rapporteur, I am also surprised that the Workers' Party is just so eager to make changes now, considering that the hospital reform is the Workers' Party's own reform, promoted by the then Health Minister, Tore Tønne. And it does not just stop with this proposal. At the recent national meeting of the Workers’ Party, it was decided that, in addition to working towards ‘more transparent’ health business boards, they should also have ‘a composition that ensures political influence’. There is, of course, no interpretation other than that political representatives should be elected into the boards. I therefore allow myself to ask whether the Workers' Party is in the process of withdrawing from parts of the reform which they themselves have promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e663	Not surprisingly, a proposal like what we are dealing with here comes from the backbones of the hospital reform. For these same repellents, there is still some problem — which is not really a problem. It is far more disappointing that the representatives of the Workers' Party in the Social Committee have been influenced by these reluctances to open up business governance meetings, i.e. to exceed what is in the proposal, that this should be left to regional enterprises themselves to decide. Here, the representatives of the Workers' Party are strongly opposed to their own former Minister of Health, Tore Tønne, who is the architect of the hospital reform, and who thought – and still believes – that open meetings of the boards would be to restrict the autonomous activities, autonomy and responsibility of the boards under the corporate law. Regional health establishments are subject to the Public Health Act and this should be sufficient. User committees have been appointed, so that enterprises have ongoing contact with user organisations and with users in full publicity. In addition, the legislative proposal opens up so that the boards of corporate governance can exercise discretion in relation to open board meetings, and we have an entity that has done so in practice. I can't see that closed board meetings so far have created any problems – except for the media, which are still screaming for more transparency. It may be easy if meetings of the Governing Board are opened. There can be undue uncertainty, anxiety, debate and misunderstanding about what is going on in the Governing Board meetings. As I see it, it's at least too early to dictate health companies to have open board meetings. One must at least wait a few years, let this go to and see what problems at closed meetings that are real, and which are not. I think it is reasonable that the Storting should take the consequences of the corporate law that is in place and that, in relation to the responsibilities and arrangements of the board, is close to an AS model that does not operate with open board meetings. Health enterprises are faced with a formidable task of structuring, internal organisation and division of tasks, and should now be given the freedom to work on the intentions of the business model. In any case, there will be plenty of opportunity to come back to the matter at a later stage. This is the reason why the Progress Party maintains its previous position that the decision on open meetings should be attributed to regional undertakings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e676	There are few political issues that involve people more than issues that concern health policy in general, and perhaps hospital policy in particular. Since these are questions that literally concern people's lives and health, it is not very difficult to understand. As long as Norwegian hospitals were owned and operated by the county councils, the media, patient organisations and people were most likely to be fully aware of and influence the plans and priorities of responsible political bodies and the decisions of the same bodies. All documents were available, the meetings were open, and the political process could be followed all the way until decisions were taken. This considers SV to be a strength and a very central pillar of the Norwegian People's Republic, which it is important to take care of and continue. Following the transfer of hospitals to the country from 1 January of this year and organised as an enterprise, the possibilities of transparency and participation of those to be served by hospitals, namely the population of the individual regions, are greatly reduced. In four out of five regional health establishments, meetings are held for closed doors, without the outside world being able to monitor what is going on. This represents a major democratic problem. This is the background to the proposal promoted by the Centre Party and the SV, which has been endorsed by the Working Party of the Committee. I would like to commend the Workers' Party for having now taken such a clear position on this issue. As stated in the preamble, a robust majority in this House underlines the importance of openness and transparency, so that public activities and service production are to rework and retain a high degree of legitimacy in the population. It was supposed to be missing, too. But when it comes to the question of following up this through an obligatory decision on open board meetings, unfortunately, the government parties are jumping off. I'm sorry. What is also worth noting is that the Progress Party is not concerned with such openness and transparency. They're not on this note. So the party, which would very much appear to be a party representing public interests, is not concerned that the majority of people should have the opportunity to follow what health business boards do about planning and priorities in the hospital sector, in a situation where these companies now manage between 55 and 60 billion taxpayers and make important priorities that are highly related to people's lives and health. In these days, people around many parts of the country are rightly concerned about what is going to happen to their local hospital — with the emergency response, with the food supply. If there had been full transparency about these questions, it could have helped to avoid unjustified unrest and fear where there is no basis for it, and it would have contributed to the fact that the population where there is reason to fear closures and withdrawals of offers had known the facts and could have engaged themselves from it. It surprises me very much that the Progress Party is the party that is blocking today in this Chamber for a system of greater transparency and transparency for most people in the activities of health businesses. It is a crossroads of thought that the Stortinget – the elected representatives of the people – should actively ensure that the population is excluded from the governing bodies that have the primary responsibility for the health service to be provided in different parts of the country. This is a major democratic problem, and it will help to weaken the confidence and legitimacy of health businesses in the population. This must not be seen in isolation either. We are now seeing an ever-increasing trend in the same direction in several other areas — a trend in which key policy areas are gradually being shut off from popular governance and are being cut off from the transparency and involvement of ordinary peoples, and where market and expert governance take over. The active involvement of the Christian People's Party in this development amazes me. The party was in its time one of the parties most opposed to the hospital reform and the organisation of health businesses. The proposal we are discussing today would have helped to reduce the negative results of the depoliticisation and dedemocratic process of the hospital reform. Therefore, it is regrettable that the Christian People's Party has now committed itself to the political right in such a way that they are now involved in ensuring a majority that a system in which more and more decisions are being moved into the closed spaces can continue. It should therefore continue to be such that a non-governmental body, the board of health care establishments, seagoing staff shall determine whether meetings should be held for closed doors or whether there should be transparency and transparency. This is fundamentally undemocratic. SV is therefore strongly opposed to it. We regret that the majority in the Grand Duchy will not make any changes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e700	The centre party had many objections when the health company scheme was dealt with and adopted. One of these objections was the lack of transparency, participation and democratic processes in the establishment of health businesses. We repeatedly pointed out the majority's position in this regard and that these important principles were disregarded. We believe that since health policy means so much in terms of scope, supply and quality, this should be a topic for a public and open debate. It is of fundamental importance to the population and is therefore subject to a high level of interest and commitment to the population. Norway has a long and good tradition of high transparency and participation by all residents in the country, including in health policy. We therefore believe that there is a regrettable breach of the tradition that the board meetings of regional health companies are held for closed doors, without the possibility of either the media or the rest of the population being present. This also applies to those added, those responsible for health care, and to us who are generally affected. When I say those who are responsible for health care, I actually mean us who are also sitting on the Stortinget, and who have poor insight into what is really going on in the disposals of the various health care companies this day. We get a lot of numbers on the table, and we see how it stands -- it's not obvious -- but we see little of what happens behind the development of numbers, when this happens in enclosed spaces. That is very regrettable. We fear that such practice will help to weaken the legitimacy of health businesses among the population and also generally in society. Although this Health Business Act and the scheme have been in place for only less than a year, there is already a reason, based on the experience we have, to change this and to ensure that it becomes a practice whereby all regional health businesses – including health companies under these, i.e. hospitals and hospital boards – practice meeting openness. We believe that this should be done in all areas, except in the case of person-sensitive cases, employment cases and purely commercial matters that need to be kept out of the public domain. There comes Section 19(b) of the Administrative Act. I'm amazed at what's happening this day. When we were dealing with health companies, there was a fairly high level of commitment from, among other things. The Christian People's Party for this with a lack of democracy and openness. And the fractional leader of the Christian People's Party in the Social Committee at the time, Are Næss, said among other things. where this was the case with user representation in the boards: ‘We would like to comply with this wish, even though I would warn everyone against being represented on these boards, where, in my opinion, they will in any case have a hostage function. Such a hostage function will also be provided to members of the proposed regional Council bodies. These advices are a clever trick to get health policy debate out of elected bodies with decision-making capacity and into ‘supplement’, which will have no real influence. I hope these advices are not adopted. If they do, I will also warn you here that a person is fooled into participating in these." These are quite strong words, and when the Christian People's Party is now in the process of praising these counsels, I wonder if the vision of democracy has changed so much. I think that the Christian People's Party has made a very turn in sight, even in terms of democracy and participation. The Christian People's Party spokesman here today, Magne Aarøen, said that one should respect the work of health businesses and that he was generally too open to society. If you have respect for this work, I believe that then you also have to respect it in such a way that it tolerates the light of day, and that it tolerates a social debate both in the media and among the people most. So a little bit to the role of the Progress Party here: the representative John Alvheim has recently said in the media that they are in favour of closed board meetings, but otherwise maximum transparency. The progress party went against user representation to the controllers, despite the fact that the signals were slightly different when we discussed this, about a year and a half ago. Today, in this position, they are saying remarkably little about openness and the participation of most people in the debate on health policy. What's this base of? It can't be just that the AS system should get some rest. And what is otherwise referred to as maximum transparency is completely absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e724	Health undertakings manage important social interests and Community goods, and the public rightly wishes to see their activities. Ensuring that healthcare businesses operate with transparency is a very important and priority area. I am pleased to register, after a survey I have carried out, that this is working very actively in the companies. The business model is based on the fact that health enterprises and their boards are not political or administrative bodies. The health corporate governance is composed of individuals by virtue of their personal experience and suitability, and they do not sit as representatives of either political parties, geographical regions or stakeholder organisations. It implies that the Governing Board meetings and the meetings of health establishments are not directly comparable with political bodies. Political governance shall now take place at the overall level through the systems established for that purpose. Document No The 8 proposal concerns the transparency of the procedure of regional undertakings. In concrete terms, it is proposed to impose on the public meeting of health undertakings’ board meetings, with certain exceptions. Let me remind you that, on the part of Storting, there is an opportunity to exercise discretion in relation to how health companies' board meetings are to be held. It is fully in line with the corporate model adopted. At the same time, transparency of the functioning of the boards shall be ensured to the public. However, transparency in processes does not mean, nor does it depend, in my opinion, on the possibility of sitting in the board meetings. As I have explained in my reply to the Social Committee, I expect active provision of information to the public from the business community. I also expect them to practise the disclosure law, and that they practice more publicity, not least in terms of ensuring public access to documents in the margins and after of board meetings. These are file lists, and to a certain extent they apply to file documents and minutes after the meetings of the Boards. Regional health establishments have established good systems for this purpose now. Active work is being done to facilitate and improve information to the public. To me, it is the quality of this work and the relationship between cooperation, dissemination and the practice of the principle of more openness that together determines the level of openness of health businesses. And I have to say that all the experience I have from political processes and from social decision-making processes suggests that it is in the stages up to the final decision that transparency is important, because that is where the ability to influence actually lies. That is where the possibilities of democracy lie first and foremost. It is a potential for improvement in relation to the functioning of transparency and information provision related to the work of directors per year. today. The public shall be guaranteed legal transparency in the activities of undertakings. Regional health enterprises have recognised this and are actively following it up. In my opinion, however, it is not appropriate to amend the statutes and impose on health care establishments the public meeting as proposed in Document No. The 8th proposal. As previously announced by the Stortinget, at the latest through the 2003 State Budget proposal, I will gain experience and views on the different practices of open and closed board meetings chosen by the companies, because they have, of course, used the freedom granted to them by the Stortinget on this point. In line with the Committee's recommendation, any questions relating to the public meeting will also be considered in this context. And I'll come back to Stortingen with the evaluation. The assessments to be made here will also include views and experiences from environments that are critical to closed board meetings, and I have been in dialogue with the press and their bodies in this regard. Similarly, opinions and arguments in favour of closed meetings should be considered, as should other measures that may help to ensure public transparency. I'm not going to go much into the debate so far, but I have to say that if the representative Ola Glötvold sits with the impression that there is no social debate about health policy and the activities of health companies today, he cannot have followed very well in what is moving around the country. There is, of course, an active debate, and health businesses have put forward their proposals for restructuring and transitions which are a follow-up to the assumptions made by the Stortinge in the context of the budgetary procedure, on the Internet, and with an active early-stage information activity, long before decision-making is relevant. And that results in mobilization. This results in debate meetings. That results in a torch train. Is not this democracy? So it has happened even if you have board meetings that are not open to the public at the moment you make the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e741	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e745	I think we have an exciting and interesting debate, and I want to say that I have great respect for the position that is being expressed here on the part of the government parties. I feel that the emphasis is on two main reasons. The first is that the reform has worked for a very short time, we have very few experiences, and we need to gain experience, think about and evaluate thoroughly before we may choose to change a position we have had. The second argument used is that the boards of undertakings are not composed of representatives of political parties or stakeholder organisations, but of members who are there by virtue of their personal suitability, and that the boards of undertakings in this way must be considered differently from a political body. As I said, I respect that justification. However, what led me to block both eyes and ears, to say the same, was the reason that came from the committee's chairman for the position the Progress Party has taken, that the problem of transparency is that it creates uncertainty, and that it creates confusion and thus uncertainty. So, the reason why the Progress Party is too closed board meetings in the companies is that there are things going on that people don't have the good news to hear. There is an eye-catching justification from the Chairman of the Committee! What has been my starting point and the starting point of the Workers' Party in this case is that we are of course aware that both the government of Stoltenberg and our big group were involved in the legal text that forms the basis of the practice today. But as a party that thus has great ownership of the whole reform, we also have a very strong interest in the success of the reform. And what I have to say is that when I travel around the country today, very many people are concerned about discussing health policy – there I agree with the Minister of Health. But in addition, I experience a great commitment from people who ask, Why are these board meetings closed? What's going on there that we can't hear? What is said in the debates that it is essential for the people not to hear? Why do you have to close these board meetings? Then I have to say, yes, but nothing happens there that people can't hear. But why not keep them open? then you ask. What is the reason why you have to shut down to debate health? I just have to say that I have bad answers to the good questions. Therefore, I believe that if we are happy with the health reform, we are wise to open the board meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e756	I would first like to stress that I feel the Minister of Health's approach as tidy. It's still true that it beats you, if you have a little sloppy look and think about what Are Næss said in this room when we discussed the law itself, that here you could have run Are Næss-quotes for the next ten years with which you could have plagued the Christian People's Party. But SV is concerned about being tidy and focused on the new hospital law. We've got a hospital code. It's there, and it won't go away again. The question then is: how do we make legislation that ensures that the public's best interests are respected, that treatment is ensured within reasonable time limits, and that healthcare is distributed that benefits the whole population? When much of the responsibility for those services — at least at a more detailed level — is shifted from political decision-making to board meetings, it becomes important to have the necessary transparency in relation to those processes. That is why we have always argued that these board meetings should be open. I perceive that some parties, and especially the Progress Party, are doing a double accounting in their argument – if you can use such an expression – because what we experience over and over again in terms of different services for the population, is that the cases are brought into the main hall with the assumption that we are going to clean this up. We now have a discussion related to the offer of premature births, where it is said in a way that now, as big politicians, we should decide what this offer should be like, after the same parties have actually said that we should leave it to others. Then you have to decide if you want others to make the decisions or if you want to take them yourself. I would like to remind the assembly that SV agreed that we should have national health plans at an overall level that would be adopted in this room, and then the governments would put them to life. As long as you don't go for that kind of model, as long as you – like the Progress Party – go because we're not going to make the decisions, they're going to be taken in the boards, and the board meetings are supposed to be closed, you don't have to argue with the population as if we're the ones who're set to make these decisions, because it's driving the people behind the light. Then the Progress Party must be so honest that they say that they no longer want this to be up to the politicians to decide, they want it to be decided in the Governing Board meetings, and they want the Governing Board meetings to be closed because they do not want people to be able to influence the decisions. That's how we've argued all along, and that's how we still argue. Unfortunately, the Progress Party does not argue this way to the population. They have one type of rhetoric related to their comments in the case, and they have another way of arguing when they meet their voters out where they might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e763	We are not going to push this debate too far. However, when it is said from the government parties that health businesses are to be operated with transparency, transparency and participation, it is a paradox that it is now criticised that we recommend transparency. Yes, it is even said that it is naive to believe that open board meetings change something. It was words that fell from this pulpit. I agree with the Minister of Health that the process ahead of a decision may be at least as important as the moment of decision, but at the same time, I believe that the possibility of participation in both the process and the decision is really closely linked. In any case, it is my experience from the political work and from other work that democracy rests on both the two pillars. After this debate, I'm actually wondering if all the parties here want more transparency, as it's said. As the rapporteur for the health reform, I must say that it is not the case, as was claimed here, that the reform is based on the closure of the board meetings. The case rapporteur in this case spent a lot of his time describing the need for more publicity – that is, obviously more publicity than what is being practised today. It is impossible for me to see the difference between what the Labour Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party today, proposes, and the content of the rapporteur's articles here. I just have to find out that words and actions do not match. With the practice we see, I think we insist that we demystify as soon as possible what has to be done in the regimes. The reform is one thing, but I think transparency benefits the health policy itself and perhaps also respect for what we do out of political intervention for the overall national health policy for which we work in the Stortinget and for which the Minister of Health is also working in his department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e779	I must admit that I had not really intended to take the floor in this matter, but after the article to the representative Ballo, where he drew some comparisons, I feel that I have to take the floor. The representative of Ballo obviously did not realize that Stortinget also has an ombudsman role. You don't just have the piece of business, to write notes and work things out, you also have an ombudsman role. These include: the Contracting Party adopts in this case. We also have another opportunity in this room, because the Council of State is the one who is responsible, and to which we relate in the case of enterprises. There is nothing in the reform to say that it is not possible to do one thing or another. It's just not specified in the law. The size shall relate to the Council of State. The Council of State has made a contribution where he has made his point of view, and I think it is very important that we now let this reform work for a while. We see different practices from companies to businesses, but now we have to let time work a little bit and see how this works. With regard to the intervention of the Member of the European Parliament by this speaker, there is at least one thing that is certain, and that is that there has been hardly more debate in the population about health policy and about the priority that is being done than after the reform. But those who have fallen into disrepute here, those who have lost some of their authority and power in connection with this reform, are probably the ones who cry out the highest – it is the state politicians who have lost some of their ability to rule this. It's possible that's why the Center Party is yelling so loudly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e788	It is clear that some parties and representatives in this Chamber have still not taken up the idea that the Storting has adopted the business model, but still live in the belief that, as a state politician and insofar as a local politician, one must still have a hand in managing the health system. We've gone away from that, and now everyone has to accept it. In Health South for more than six months, various plans and proposals for restructuring have been debated – full debate, no problems. I would say that never has any health authorities locally informed the individual employees of our health institutions as well as just now, and as it is still being done continuously. Therefore, employees are very well satisfied – so far at least – with the reform and the way it is driven forward. We have to take that with us. It is clear that we as central politicians have one way to go, and that is through the Council of State. We can take advantage of this opportunity, and there is no double accounting, as the representative Ballo said. So for the recording from the vice president of the committee. I assume he has also been in a presidency. I've been doing that for many years, and it's amazing how a little feather can become five chickens when it's later referred from such a debate in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e797	It is obvious that the engagement extends well into the Storting, and it certainly takes no harm from it. My predecessor Are Næss has been quoted here, and I don't mind that either. He was a colorful person, and I'm neither going well for nor taking a distance from his statements. They stand for what they were in their time. Everything is word in its time. Now the reform has been established, and we have to stick to it. I tried in my post to give very clear, principled leadership on what we wanted, and what attitudes we have, but at the same time the Christian People's Party says that we are willing when health professionals are asked to give an assessment, to give both them and the Council of State these months to do so. And then I register that in the majority we probably have quite different premises. We must be able to live with that too. I'm noticing that some of the parties that adopted the reform, here today also have very different premises. I'll register it. I'm a little sorry that some people thought there wasn't a complete match between word and action, because that's actually it. The representative of Lutvold went very high on the track in speaking negatively about the Christian People's Party. He must have done that. We have a positive angle to this, and we're going to take a position on it as a party when that time comes, and I don't think it's going to be that many months before we get access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e808	I understand that we also get a hectic post-Christmas season, because there are several issues in which not least the representative of the Aarøen points out that we will probably solve it, it will only take a few months. This concerns both this case and other matters that we are going to deal with in Stortinget today. I have to reject one thing, and that's that it would be almost unspeakable to quote former representative Are Næss. The representative Ballo has done it before, and I did it today. I both have and have had great respect for the representative Naess. What I see as bordering on the remarkable is the reluctance that the Christian People's Party has committed to seeing democracy and openness. That's why I quoted what was the official view of the Christian People's Party a year and a half ago. So the Minister of Health says that there is established discretion in open board meetings, and that it is expected that the disclosure law will be practised and that the principle of transparency will also be practised. That's okay. But we believe from the signals we have already received, not least from the media who are going to carry this debate out, that it is already time to change this, that the Council of State can take action, and that we should in the long term get a law that there should be a public meeting. And then the Council of State says that I'm going through a bad time when I haven't seen that there's a social debate about health policy. Well, I've seen it, I get almost daily reports about it, but I've never felt that people are as frustrated as they are now. It's a frustration because they feel that they don't have enough information and transparency, and they don't know anything until the decision is made. The frustration also arises because they cannot meet the decision-makers and hear their arguments in the final phase when decisions are taken. This applies not least to the media, which shall carry it out. I don't think about – in order to visit the representative of Alvheim, too – frustrated state politicians. I think they have more than enough with the bad economy they have in the areas for which they are to be responsible today. I think maybe they're happy that they've got this hospital responsibility outside their agenda. I think of it as the leader of the Advance Party, among others. Nice to call people the most. Most people today have much worse information about health policy, and not least the hospital service, than they had when this was to open political bodies. I think it's remarkable that the Progress Party says they're against opening board meetings, and that transparency can create insecurity. Uncertainty for whom? As I said in my first post. Is there uncertainty about the governance of health businesses and what the Progress Party wants to shape it, that is, an AS system, or is it that it can create insecurity outside of most people? That is a big question, and I think it is remarkably quiet in terms of the Progress Party and their argument for democracy in this matter. I am a little afraid that the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen is right when he asks whether the reform is based on closed board meetings. I am pleased that the Labour Party has turned around in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e819	The President can confirm that there is full access to quotations both in the past and in the future, to the extent that it is appropriate to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e822	Then we have conducted another hospital policy debate in this Chamber, with a repetition of old fronts from the debate on the introduction of corporate reform. I wonder how many times until we have to have this kind of debate where you draw up the old fronts. The Christian People's Party was attacked and defended here. Let me just say that the big difference between the Christian People's Party and the other parties who voted against the reform is that the Christian People's Party has actually taken the consequences of a majority having adopted it, and that we are now in a very important implementation phase where the Christian People's Party is keenly interested in the success of the reform for most people in this country. I have to say as one who wasn't here when Are Næss came up with his statements, and who has never spoken negatively about this reform anywhere: the more I work with it, the greater faith I get in the need to do such an act. So it's going to be done in transparency. Yes, enterprises have so far the freedom to choose whether or not to have open board meetings. Some have selected open meetings. Undertakings have no freedom to opt out of the disclosure law or the principle of more transparency. Enterprises have no freedom to opt out of an active information policy. The companies know the breath in the neck of the owner at these points and will do it in the future. Let me just stress that there has not been any kind of reluctance on my part or on the part of the Christian People's Party in the view of democracy and openness, as the representative of Joy here wrongly claims. It is also wrong in my opinion – at least it is completely undocumented – that there should be less transparency about hospital activity today than it was when the county council had ownership responsibility. With regard to the health region from which the representative of Lutvold himself comes, they have, since the summer, had extensive structural processes with working group working groups, and there has been full transparency about these investigations, they have been on the net, so lack of information can at least not be the problem in relation to these processes. But when that is said, we now need to evaluate the experience of open and closed meetings. We're going to do that in a prejudiced way. We're going to have positive and negative sides. We're going to do it in contact with those who criticize closed meetings, and we're going to get back to Stortinget, as the committee majority is now adding up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e835	I am a little surprised that the Minister of Health is cutting all the other parties over one comb when he corrects the criticism back in relation to the contributions of Lutvold. I have underlined that we want to be constructive in relation to the legislation that is, and look at formulations that give off bad results. What I pointed out is that we must not deprive Stortinget of the opportunity to change where we see that the decisions go in a direction in which a majority disagree. Then you have to change the law as it does. It is in this respect that I would criticise the Progress Party. So here you get a statement from the committee's head, John I. Alvheim, that the Progress Party is dealing with the Council of State and – I would almost say – just the Council of State. It must be tempting for the Government to ask to get it in writing. So, in parallel with Alvheim’s presentation of how this is to be understood, Hedstrøm is in Askim and promises to take care of the hospital that is there – in parallel with the running of processes that the Progress Party has supported and that have been set up in the legislation, where the decisions are not taken here, they are taken by the health companies’ governments. And then you have to be so honest that you say that that's the way it is now, that we've been involved that we're not going to decide. That's why we can't go in and control this in detail. We don't want to detail it. But that's not how the Progress Party acts when you're out among the population and argue about what to take care of and not take care of. It's double accounting, and it was well illustrated here through the contributions of Harald T. Nesvik and John I. Alvheim how fundamentally different understanding the two who sit in the same committee have of it. I think the Progress Party should have been so honest that they said, "We don't want to interfere, sorry, but this is not something we want to invest in." That's what governments have to decide, and they have to do it in closed board meetings, because we don't want the noise that occurs when the population interferes with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e845	Mr Grötvold has spoken twice and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he has the floor for a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e848	I think the Health Minister showed some hairyness, especially in his last post. We do not want to reverse or reverse the decisions concerning health businesses. This isn't a rematch on it. On the contrary, we will help to improve the practice of healthcare business and improve the law applicable in this area. That's why we're asking for these things to come into place. I think it is bad that constructive proposals should be dealt with in this way. We have also tried to follow up on the health reform, perhaps in greater monks than many others, among others. the Party of the Minister of Health, in terms of budgeting and thereby allocating and prioritizing resources to health businesses and hospital operations, in order to enable them to have working conditions in order to carry out the job assigned to them. It's difficult and heavy, but it has to be visible outside of most people, an expression that has been repeated several times here today, so that one can debate, control and influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e855	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e871	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e878	Document No 8:110 for 2001-2002 by Gunn Olsen and Britt Hildeng, representatives of the Workers' Party, discusses changes in the population's rights to sick pay for long-term sick leave, § 8-12, so that the number of sick pay days can be increased under certain conditions. The extension shall be possible upon application when the time of completion can be determined with a high degree of certainty and the patient shall not be able to influence the faster conduct of the investigation and treatment. It shall then be possible to set a new ceiling for the sick pay period according to the submission. The purpose of the submission is to make the situation easier for the sick person. The intention of the submission is good, but it is submitted that it is based on a discretionary criterion which would be very difficult to deal with and practice. In particular, this could quickly lead to different handling in the case of complex mental disorders. There is also a high degree of uncertainty about the costs of submission. For example, for cancer-diagnosed individuals, the submission of an extension would lead to an additional cost of between 24 and 97 million, according to a letter from the Minister of Social Affairs dated 24 October 2002. If it is assumed that all those with sickness benefits who are subject to health insurance during the first year of rehabilitation should come under the scheme, the additional cost would be 1.7 billion, according to the letter from the Minister for Social Security. Among other things, on this background, the plurality of the committee, all except the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, rejects the submission. The majority stated that there is a need to focus on simplified procedures when the reason for the medical report is so serious that the person concerned will not be able to return to work. In the case of patients who may be in the final phase of life, the Department has informed that there are developed specific procedures for the granting of disability pensions. The majority of the Committee fully trusts that social security offices will handle this in a good and humane way. On this basis, I take up the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e897	We have in this country a health pay scheme we can be proud of, a cornerstone of our welfare building. The Labour Party is aware that the government parties and the Progress Party have sometimes expressed views that the sick pay scheme is too generous and in those days announced that if sick leave does not go down by 20 p.m., they will be prepared to make cuts in the sick pay scheme. The Labour Party will continue to fight for a health pay scheme in the future that will ensure the economic security of people who experience a time that may otherwise be very difficult. In the light of previous history and attitudes to the sickness pay scheme, we are not surprised at the views of the government parties and the Progress Party on this matter. But we are surprised that SV is not involved in a proposal aimed at filling an empty space in our legislation in the case of sick people. Because that's what this case is about. These are people who, in relation to other good welfare legislation, fall among all trusts in a completely meaningless way. Today, we have a health pay scheme, a rehabilitation, rehabilitation and rehabilitation scheme – a good chain that works in interaction and provides answers to real problems. But it's when this chain doesn't answer real problems, that people are squandered between the arrangements in an unworthy and inhumane way, and that's what the proposal aims to do. The proposal is intended for sick people who do not need reincarnation because they will die. It is people who are going to go back to work, but who need a slightly longer rest period — either because the health care system has not had the capacity to treat them, or because the end time of treatment and therefore the return to work may take a little longer than the sick period of the people’s fear. It is in these very special situations that we believe we need a flexible system and a regulation that is more humane. The majority of the Committee, the Government Parties, the Advance Party and the SV shall meet as follows: ‘The majority will stress that separate procedures have been developed to facilitate the transition from sickness benefit to disability benefit. The transition from one performance to the other shall be as smooth as possible without great stress for the sick person.» Think about it! In situations where it is not possible to restore the patient, and where the remainder of the treatment is only pain relief before death, then the transition to disability retirement must be ‘as smooth as possible without great stress on the sick person’. It is clear that applying for disability benefit as one of the last things you do, not only is a feeling, but an inhuman feeling, both for the sick and for the family. The proposal that the Workers' Party is promoting is an attempt to capture some groups that are falling through in relation to a bureaucratic and rigid code. There is a recognition that in legislation that is good for most people, some people may still fall through, and that there is therefore a need to take individual considerations into account. We ask the Government to come back with a proposal on how to do that. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I address the proposal referred to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e921	The representative Hildeng has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e924	I would like to begin by referring to the point made by the rapporteur, Mr Aarøen, and join in what he said. As the representative Hildeng had in mind, special treatment procedures have been developed to facilitate the transition from sickness benefit to disability benefit for dying patients. The representative Hildeng made this, the way she put it, and not least by the pay, so it almost seemed that the arrangement was unworthy as it is today. It is a presentation that I absolutely do not agree with. It is precisely in order to take account of the concerns of Britt Hildeng that these changes have been made, in order to ensure an easy transition to disability for patients in terminal care – a system that should work well and that takes place in a flexible manner. But we see that the transition from sick pay by 100 pst. Reimbursement of wages and salaries for most persons under an unearned pension will result in a reduction in income. But that's the case for everyone, and it would have been very special if there were schemes here that differentiated the benefit from the severity of the disease or the condition of the patient. It would be a system that assumed that it was the disease image that would determine the performance and not the need. After all, we have assumed that we have a disability in this country from which it will be possible to live. In addition, a proposition has now been put forward which refers to a new system to be established, the temporary disability scheme, which will be a scheme for patients such as: will be long-term ill but will have the opportunity to return to work. I refer to the consideration of this proposition, which the committee starts with in spring. I cannot join in the presentation given by the representative Britt Hildeng on the matter. I believe that the system we have today, as well as what we might be able to do by following up the proposition we have for treatment, will be able to capture this area. It's not, as it's tested as, an area that's legitimate, where people are falling through today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e935	Both the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Aarøen, and the representative from the Right, Mr Höie, have well explained the majority's view, so I shall not go on with this debate that much longer. But it's clear there's a couple of things that it's worth pointing out. One is – so that we can once and for all make it clear – that the matter has not been rejected. When you hear the representative Britt Hildeng, it seems that the Stortinge says that this should not be done by the Stortinge. The majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal by the representatives of Gunn Olsen and Britt Hildeng be annexed to the Minutes, because we believe that the wording can cause us to have some new issues. The proposal to the representatives does not solve all the problems, but leads to some other issues, such as:What happens in the transition phase, between going from sick and going to disability? That's why the majority also says that we have to look at this in conjunction with the proposition that we're going to deal with to spring, Ot.prp. No 102 for 2001–02, on temporary disability. A number of these issues are being considered. Of course, what you're not dealing with in that piece is what goes on in the terminal phase, that is, the transition, where there's no room for improvement. But there, as the representative Höie was involved, there are already arrangements. These believe that the majority need to be even simpler, so that it is not burdensome in addition to its disease. But, as I said, the majority has not rejected the content of the proposal. The majority have pointed out that a matter to be dealt with in the spring can address a good part of the issues raised by the proposers, and we will get back to it then.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e944	SV perceives that there are two elements in the proposal presented by Britt Hildeng. One is to facilitate the procedure for people who have a serious illness and who may be in a phase where they will soon die. We fully agree with that. I fully agree with Britt Hildeng that it would be completely pointless to create a kind of bureaucratic system that is simply humiliating both to the sick and to the relatives. The government gives a presentation that these routines have changed, that it's easier, and that in a way, you avoid a canoeing process around it. But if it turns out that it's still not good enough, of course we have to change it in an appropriate way. However, the proposal also has another element in it that is problematic and that SV cannot go into, and that is the idea of continuing a performance unabated, depending on the severity of the disease. I have a clear impression that this has not been sufficiently thought through by the proposers either, because after one year according to the Swedish Social Security Act § 8-12, there are in practice three possibilities: Rehabilitation, vocational rehabilitation or disability pension. For one who is seriously ill and who may soon die, it is not clear which of the three benefits it should be, and there has been a problem. It is not obvious that there should be a retirement or a disability pension. Rehabilitation money cannot normally be given because you must then be treated with a view to improvement. But then I see that you can give it anyway, you ignore that formulation. But if you were to think, as implicitly in the proposal, that you should have the unabated medical allowance because the condition is serious, how do you evaluate it? Should it be that, at the moment of transition to a lower performance, there should be an assessment of how serious it is now? Is it very serious, or is it a bit serious? Is the performance going up or going down? The situation can then be that one week one considers that the performance should be unabated, the next week improves the condition, and then it should be shortened, then the third week becomes worse after the doctor establishes that the cancer has spread, and then it should be re-examined to the maximum level. This has not been done – with respect to reporting – by the proposers. It is clear that the consequence of that type of proposal would be a kind of discretionary assessment of these conditions by the individual social security office that would be totally unsustainable. And is that what we in SV want — and also social legislation — is to get away from the purely discretionary assessment of what kind of income base people should have. Instead, we need to ensure that we have general benefits for the entire population, where we do not create access portals with dignified and unworthy needs. Although the proposers have not had that intention, it would unfortunately have been the consequence of this proposal. It could have been a problem in exactly the same way around someone who has been working in a nursing home for many years, for example. a woman who has been completely worn out, who has a back disease which means that she can no longer work, who first turns to rehabilitation money, then to rehabilitation, and who then the third year ends with disability pension, and in the meantime has gradually lost her benefits. This is an unreasonable arrangement, he should not get these abbreviations. At least SV will argue for it. But the proposal is precisely based on the fact that that group should not be included. It's the group that has a serious illness that in turn you're going to die of, that's going to get unabated income or benefit. It's a kind of reasonableness assessment we can't attend. Instead, of course, welfare schemes must be found for the population with a type of entry criteria that are approved or not approved for performance. And if you've first given an approval, the rules must be the same for the whole population. That's what it's about, and that makes SV not able to go in for it. But that it should be unbureaucratic, that people should not be humiliated in relation to the applications, that you should not apply too, maybe only the doctor can send a statement confirming the relationship and then the social security office treats it, we are fully aware of that. We've also made comments on that. In addition, I would like to point out that there are a number of other welfare schemes that I hope the Workers' Party can be with us and further develop, and that we have suggested many times. This applies not least to the care allowance which can be provided under certain conditions in relation to the family member who must be at home with the deceased person. It also applies to basic and auxiliary support schemes, and to other facilities which, in total, can improve the family's financial performance during the final phase of a serious illness. In this way, it is precisely possible to differentiate between a serious and a less serious disease, without having to do so through the use of sick pay and differentiation of their size.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e961	We have good welfare systems in Norway in connection with disease and rehabilitation. But we also have some gaps and shortcomings in these schemes with which we must try to do something, for the benefit of users and citizens. I see the proposal from Gunn Olsen and Britt Hildeng as an attempt to do so. It is a matter of being able to meet sick people in a transitional situation, so that they are freed from the burden of public red tape and further difficulties with the economy, which may be difficult enough through sickness and the loss of normal wage income. It is also pointless that such cases should burden health and social security capacity if it is such that it can be organised more flexibly for all parties. In particular, there's this extra strain in addition to the disease problems we're trying to deal with here. It is this situation that the proposal proposes to do something about. We are asking for a more flexible system to spare sick people. It's said that this will be expensive, this isn't consistent or provenance properly calculated. I can agree with that, but getting estimated proceeds in such cases is probably the government's responsibility if we ask for it. What we are behind this proposal, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, now say, is that the Government will be allowed to assess this in more detail, calculate costs and come up with a good regulation for it, and that it is made into a revised national budget. I think it's going to be played on some emotions here that I don't want to play on. I think we all have a whole-hearted commitment to doing the best for our people, and then I won't say that one is so much better than the other. But I take inward recognition that here's something that creates great problems for people who have big enough problems from before. And saying that you have to have a system that is as flexible as possible, without much stress for the sick person who is in a terminal phase, is not good enough for me. I think that then we have to try to find a system that is not at all a stress and a strain. A small line to the representative Ballo when he criticises us as behind the proposal, because we base it on judgemental considerations. Yes, we do it to a certain extent, but our social security and social security legislation is full of discretion. That these discretionary considerations sometimes have to be made in a flexible way for the best of people, I think it's important, because we can't break principles and paragraphs so that it becomes right for everyone. Then there must be some insight inside the picture. So Ballo says that they want away from discretionary considerations and over to a tight and proper system. It may be okay, but I just remember that later today, in Odelstinget, we have a case where SV and the representative Ballo look at it in a completely different way. Int. O. No 17 for 2002-2003 says SV, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party: ‘These members can see that an amendment to the legislation would result in an increase in the use of discretion in the practice of the legislation, but this does not seem to be a serious argument against a regulatory change.’ This is exactly what we use when we support Document No. The 8th proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e981	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e984	Rarely have I been involved in dealing with a matter that has made me more upset than this – upset on behalf of all the very sick people who, in a difficult illness situation, have to fight to support their family. That's what this is all about. And no one should tell me that we have a law that takes care of that kind of situation. Many patients I have met have said: I really want me to die during the week’s operation, because I have good insurance, and at least my family is financially secure for the future. It's the reality of the day. It is quite incomprehensible to me that neither the SV nor the Progress Party can support this proposal. Because it helps me very little to speak with a loud voice for those who have a hard time in society, when you can't join the proposal to ask for an investigation. To the government parties, I would say, it does little to help with poverty packages and temporary disability when, in reality, young families are being subjected to forced auction because the caregiver is suffering from a serious illness and is failing to meet his financial obligations. That's what's real. So it's not like we haven't thought through or understood what this is all about. It's not just about people who are going to die, it's about some people who are undergoing demanding treatment that takes longer than 12 months. That's who we're talking about, too. For us in the Working Party, it is totally unacceptable that we should have such a system. Of course, we are very pleased with the support we have received from the Central Party, but we should have liked the majority to have supported us too, because it is really rotting that families with dependants who are about to die have to go on social or reintroduction!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e994	The President has some doubts as to whether the term ‘sorry me’ is safe within the limits of parliamentary language, but would suggest, for safety reasons, that the use of the expression in the Stortinge debate can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e997	It seems to be part of those who have spoken, not quite taking into account what this proposal really involves. It should not be a general scheme, it is a very special situation that cannot be met by a general regulatory framework, but where individual considerations have to be taken into account. SV says they can't support the proposal because it doesn't embrace everything, it doesn't take care of money, not basic welfare, there are many schemes that should have been in there, or more disease courses or situations than what is mentioned in the points. But what we're asking for is a proposal that means that the government actually comes back to Stortingen with the matter, and then it would have been reasonable to look at all the objections that SV and the Progress Party have made here in that context. But they are not willing to send all the issues that they have mentioned themselves in their posts here, over to the Government. I would like to quote what the proposal really applies to: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider amending the legislation and practices relating to the Swedish Social Security Act § 8-12 so that the number of sick pay days can be extended under certain conditions.’ What you reject is getting this back to a new treatment. On the basis of the argument and the understanding that you have used from this pulpit, I cannot see with my best will why you cannot support it. If there is a misunderstanding, that you may not have read the text of the proposal well enough, there may well be opportunities for you to take it inward and perhaps change your mind. We have not come to the vote yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1009	There are two things that I would like to clarify. The representative of Britt Hildeng was injured to claim that, among other things. The Christian People's Party will cut down on sick pay if the agreement on an inclusive working life doesn't work. I would appreciate her quoting right from what we said. We will consider measures. We stick 100 percent to the agreed agreement and follow it actively through the Government. Point 2. The representative Hildeng was about what they've done. She was then injured to quote errors. It's easy: "If enabled, the Government will change its policy..."
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1019	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1026	Is that right? I'm sorry. Then I don't need to correct it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1031	I would like to stress that on the part of the SV, we fully agree with the intention that we must take care of the sick, of course also seriously ill, in a responsible manner and in such a way that they do not get into a financial situation. The way it has to be done is that we create welfare systems in this society, and they have to be general. Because if the severity of the disease is going to be an entrance sport, we have a big problem, as I underlined in my first post. What, then, are we doing as such diseases change character? What is the logic that if you have a cancer, the economy becomes a big problem, while it's not a big problem for those who don't have a cancer? When the benefits are reduced, the economy will be a problem for any family, regardless of the nature of the disease. What I said instead was that there are schemes that can be used to compensate for some of the losses, but that it is important to strengthen as general schemes. This applies to basic social benefits. This applies to auxiliary aid. It's about care money, which we're going to discuss a little later today. There we go the opposite way and say you don't have to have a type of measure that relates to severity, and use it as some kind of justification. On the contrary, one has to look at the state of a larger part of the population and not limit it to a smaller part. I don't know if I express myself unclearly, but we're very concerned that the benefits you get after a year, too, are going to be good benefits that avoid getting into a bad situation. The SV is against reducing sick pay and introducing withdrawal days. We have repeatedly highlighted the consequences, the development of poverty in this society, because well-being is becoming too poor. But we can't be involved in a thought where an assessment of whether there is cancer or not cancer, whether or not to die, should be the input to whether or not the performance should be high or low. It is an inappropriate criterion for assessing the size of the performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1038	Just so that we are aware of what we are voting for or, if necessary, voting against: in Document No. The 8th proposal by the representatives of Gunn Olsen and Britt Hildeng states that it is ‘considerable to change’. The proposal for a decision, which has thus been amended in the Committee, says, 'The decision asks the Government to amend'. Whether it has happened in an incubation, or whether it is conscious, we must at least get the word ‘estimate’ in place, for it is stated in the proposal for a decision: ‘The government is asking for a change’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1043	Britt Hildeng has spoken twice and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1046	Let me first correct a mistake that may have occurred at an incurrence, and which I am pleased that the representative of the Aarøen made me aware of. In Document No: Our 8 proposal says: ‘The government is asking the Government to consider amending the legislation’. In the event of an incurrency, the word ‘assess’ is omitted from the proposal referred to in the vote. So from here, I would like to ask to have the proposal corrected, so it says, ‘The government is asking the government to consider changing the legislation’ – that is the proposal that was promoted, and as I said, a mistake has been made along the way. In the end, I just want to ask the SV representative, who sketches out many good intentions that he would like to have realized, not to stand up so that the best is the second best enemy – and encourages him again to consider giving his vote to the proposal that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1055	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1063	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in the case no. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1112	During the debate Åsa Elvik has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. In the course of the debate, the proposals have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 1 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is invited to include voluntary organisations engaged in the management of the common stocks in their own way in the Norwegian-Russian fisheries negotiations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government is invited to make appropriate proposals on how to involve the Storting in fisheries policy negotiations with other countries.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1170	During the debate, Asmund Kristoffersen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that regional health establishments and health establishments implement the public meeting, except in matters of a personal sensitivity, employment and purely commercial nature. [[(see section 4.4). Article 19(b) of the Administrative Act]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1194	from the hall: I voted incorrectly. I voted in favour and should have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1199	The representative of Klungland believes that he should have voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1202	I should also have voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1209	If people are unsure about what they have voted, it might as well be that we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-28.ana.ud2375e1224	During the debate, Britt Hildeng put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The President noted that the wording of the proposal was corrected during the debate. The proposal shall be replaced by the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider amending the legislation and practices relating to the Swedish Social Security Act § 8-12 so that the number of sick pay days can be extended under certain conditions.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
