ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e84	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e89	I'd like to suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e94	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e97	The representative, Mr Kjetil Bjørklund, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e100	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, Bjørn Jacobsen and myself, I would like to propose better indicators for energy consumption in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e105	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e108	On behalf of the representatives of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, Ågot Valle, Odd Roger Enoksen and myself, I would like to propose a grant for the construction of Kautokeino anno 1852.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e114	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e117	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Djupedal, Åsa Elvik, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of the technology agreements to strengthen Norwegian research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e122	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e125	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Per Erik Monsen and myself, I would like to propose exemptions for non-profit organisations from paying concession fees for the use of communications equipment necessary to carry out actions aimed at saving life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e130	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e144	In the context of the examination of the proposal by the EEA representative Inge Ryan to establish a nutrition fund for economically poor areas, the Committee points out that the Stortinget has repeatedly agreed that the primary objective of regional policy is to maintain the housing pattern. The Committee also points out that, despite this objective, there has been a decline in the population in almost half of the country's municipalities over the last 20 years. The problem is complex, and one of the reasons for the decline in the population is that people do not find work in economically poor areas. I expect the various parties to explain their point of view, so I want to focus on the government fraction's comments and position in the matter. There are today three state or semi-stated companies which, together with the private capital market, contribute capital to business. These are SND Invest, the Seed Scheme and the State Investment Company. In addition, SND provides risk loans for rural business. The Right and Christian People's Party sees that, in some cases, industrial development is more difficult in the districts than in the central districts. In addition to the low level of liquidity in the market, rural enterprises are struggling with less access to the private capital market than businesses in central Europe. The right and Christian People's Party sees it as important that we get further targeting of the state instruments for those areas where the need is greatest. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is now reviewing the instrument vis-à-vis industry. The aim is, in addition to achieving a target targeting of the instruments, to find the best means of achieving them. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade wrote in a letter dated 12 February that, as soon as possible after the last round of the issue of the cereal scheme, they would contact the funds to discuss the experience of the scheme so far. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade points out that this evaluation will be part of the broad review of the instrument in progress. The starting point for the review of the instrument will be all types of direct instruments, such as: grants, loans, guarantees, infrastructure and equity. The right and Christian People's Party sees it as natural that the department takes the proposal from Inge Ryan into consideration in this context. The Ministry has also given its opinion to the Committee. A majority of the Committee agrees that Document No. 8:36 is appended to the minutes. At the same time, I would ask the SV and the Central Party to convert their proposal into a transmission proposal, as the Ministry has stated that they will look at the proposal in the context of the review of the instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e167	The representative Ryan has in his Document No. 8-proposals focused on a development that both the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party pointed to in the context of the treatment of the State budget in the autumn. In a comment in the Budget indent. S. No 8 for 2001-2002 we said that we are ‘concerned about the lack of resources for nutrient development in economically poor areas’, and we pointed out that ‘increased depopulation will be the consequence if there is no depopulation in these areas’. In the evening post of 19 March, in an article entitled 'Dark Perspectives for the Internal East', we are told that there are problems in these areas. It is clear from this article that coastal Norway is the source of industrial growth, while the inner East becomes the great loser. Furthermore, it appears that Oppland, Hedmark and the areas up against Røros are struggling with gloomy prospects. From the Labour Party's point of view, we believe that the means we have today should be able to solve this if they have a sufficient economy and are being used in a targeted way. But we remember that there was a big cut in these instruments in the government's changes to the government budget in the fall. In addition, the Council of State acknowledges Gabrielsen in its letter to the Committee of 12 February. in particular: the cereal scheme has had difficulties. We're not opposed to one in the department doing a review of the instrument. We look forward to participating in such work, but we stress that one in the meantime does not have to further weaken the arrangements. We are also open to looking at other arrangements, and believe that this should be done in the context of the review mentioned in the letters of the Council of State. We have therefore chosen not to support the proposal of Inge Ryan, but believe that the Government must assess this in the context of their review. We therefore support the Right’s proposal to request that Inge Ryan’s proposal be submitted to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e180	In the last 20 years, some countries have Half of Norway’s municipalities have experienced a decline in the population. The reason why that happens is very complex. One important reason is that there is a shortage of jobs, which makes people who want to live in some district municipalities have to move because they want to have a job, both because it is meaningful, and because you need the income. So the question is, does Stortinget have any responsibility to help so that those who want to live in some districts can get a job? SV's answer to that is a clear yes. In the past, it was much easier to raise capital for initial investment in District Norway. When the District Development Fund had its heyday, there were many establishments that were created by significant access to capital from the public to the district municipalities. Then you got a new system of SND, where both the amount of capital went out to the districts, and the legislation itself. We in SV do not want to have a system in which to outsource capital to unreasonable projects, but we today experience that there are actually many good projects that strand, because they do not have access to capital either from the public or from the private. We know that in many of these district municipalities, banks and private investors are not particularly interested in investing, because no significant return on capital can be seen. That is why we believe that the state here has a special responsibility to get the wheels to start rolling, so that we can create jobs that can dampen the relocation from a number of municipalities. We know that today the state has a number of arrangements. SND has been the most important instrument, there's also a new investment fund from the state, and we have SND Invest. But that's not enough for those municipalities that we're talking about here. We want to establish a fund that actually addresses the challenges of economically weak areas, which imposes somewhat less demands on the return on capital, and which is almost tailored to the challenges of economically weak areas. So what are we going to use the capital that we might get in such a fund for? Let's imagine two areas: Firstly, it is important to launch some innovative measures, i.e.: start-up of processes, pre-projects and pre-studies to look at the possibilities of launching a new type of activity. Secondly, there is the question of providing concrete grants to different enterprises, and indeed some more grants than is usual in the SND system. Why? Well, because it's so hard to raise private capital that it's necessary for the state to take a special responsibility for that very thing. Many would argue that the SVs and the Central Party's proposals are not correct for reasons of justice, i.e. that all parts of the country should be treated equally and not have any specific treatment for individual areas. I believe that all policies are about discrimination. There is considerable discrimination when we spend extra money in Norway, for example. to subsidise cultural offerings in the capital. I'm not saying it's wrong. I'm saying it's right that we have both opera, great theatres and so on. There's something you don't have the opportunity to spend money on in District Norway. On the other hand, spending a little more money on industrial development in the districts is a distribution that I think the nation of Norway has earned. So until the proposal, as Silja Ekeland from the Right requested, was sent to the Government. We can support this from the point of view that we hope that this matter will actually live on, and that the government will think well about and support the proposal in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e206	The President then takes the view that the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e209	The public agency is very interested in this room. There is a debate on the theme of each budget, including on the revised budget, as well as on the individual issues of industrial development which are under consideration in this Chamber. The proposal by the Socialist Left to be discussed today is to set up a new Fund for Deprived Areas. The Progress Party wants to see the proposal in a larger context, and has, in the form of a note, joined the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Right behind. The government, by the Council of State Gabrielsen, is preparing an overall review of the instrument, and now that the Council of State is present, it might be useful to get some views from him on what should be prioritised in it, and when this is likely to come to the Storting, since there is so much attention being paid. The Committee and the European Parliament have a number of other opportunities to deal with the instrument. The business committee shall be likely to deal with a notification of ownership prior to the holiday. We have a situation where Norway, as the world's richest country, is measured by builds up, lacks significant capital to make investments at home, so there are a number of issues that need to be discussed both in the Business Committee and dealt with here in the Main Room. However, we in the Progress Party would say that we do not think that there is any sense in making rapid changes to the framework conditions for the State instrument. And I thought I'd quote former director of SND, Frode Alhaug. He brought a heart attack last year: ‘If Norwegian businesses were to be driven by as diverse strategies as the SND had to deal with, it would not exist at all.’ So, as I said, the Progress Party has chosen to wait for the review of government and department, and then we're going to discuss our positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e225	In view of the current situation, there appears to be a high level of understanding among the parties of the problem of lack of access to capital. This may be a general problem, but it is clear that it is particularly sensitive in areas of poor nutrition. I think what is also said from the government parties in the suspension, is interesting, that one has less access to private capital on the outskirts than in the central strata, and that it must be a goal that one gets further targeting of the instruments precisely in terms of nutrient-poor areas. It is an interesting statement in relation to the review of the instruments notified by the Government. I do not know if I should interpret the statement that the government parties thus believe that the selective instruments we have had are needed. It's possible they mean it. In that case, I see it as positive, because it is the central party's clear belief that the selective means you have through, among other things. SND, can never be replaced by general instruments and tax reliefs. That is why I think this case is a play for an even more important debate that is going to be about what kind of instrument use is going to have in the field of business policy. In this way, the government's review is important, and like the representative Hedstrøm, I think it might be interesting if the Council of State could elaborate both on what will be prioritised in such a review of the instruments, and on the time perspective of the Storting's handling of this issue. We know that there are many good projects out in the districts that are now stranded because of a lack of access to capital. It will be particularly important in nutrient-poor areas. But it is also the case that many in so-called development strips notice the problem. As an example from what I come from, I can mention areas such as both Namsos and Outer Namdal, which are described as development strips, where the supply of private capital is problematic. As regards the cuts made in the budget during the SND harvest and the removal of municipal food funds, it is thus quite incomprehensible. Both schemes contributed to the creation and innovation of many local communities and were an important source of capital for areas that otherwise have difficult access to capital. The system of local food funds is now irrevocably gone from the majority in the United Kingdom. Therefore, the Centre considers that a targeted scheme is important for those areas where access to capital is most difficult and where the nutritional basis is most one-sided. That is why we have also chosen to support the proposal SV has promoted in this context. We believe that such a proposal would be in line with EEA legislation and that the EEA would open up that kind of possibility. We also think that such a system is necessary, based on the totally incomprehensible cutting that happened when it was SND. This does not mean that we are not concerned about the future strengthening of SND’s arrangements – we believe it is absolutely necessary – but we also believe, as has been said, that a principle should take a position in which the selective instruments are strengthened because they are of great importance, especially in the areas we are debating today. The representative, Ryan, has referred to the proposal for a transmission proposal, and we take note of that. We believe that this problem should be followed up by the Ministry in the context of the review of the current use of the instrument, and we look forward to a broader debate on this whole issue in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e240	I think there has been a positive debate on this document No. The 8 proposal, although the angle of incidence naturally will be a little bit different from each point of view. There are no simple answers to major challenges, and I believe the debate to this extent too. I agree with the representative Ryan that many of the problems we are seeing are due to lack of jobs, but we see in some cases also the very opposite that poor development opportunities are due to lack of labour. There are therefore many complex challenges that are not so easily compatible. And it's not that it's the individual budget lines within SND's different programmes that will be crucial for success or failure. What I think is very positive, as I also realized that the representative Fossli thought, is that one ends up with the review of the public tool that we have. I also realized that was the position in SV and the Senterpartiet. It's positive, because I think we have enough evidence to clarify that what has been done in recent years is more or less to redefine all of Norway into one single large district, where there is only a border that sets the boundaries. Then the assurance of success becomes unpresis, and it goes crazy. We have clearly come to the point that, for example, SND Invest has not been a locomotive to contribute to equity and investment. In those areas of the country most in need of investment and where alternative sources of funding are much less present than in the more central ones, we see that SND, through its investment company, its investment fund, has chosen to give priority to areas where challenges in this area are not as great as in the areas that Ryan wants to point to. I also think that we must have the same recognition of the new investment companies in the state, that there will be no solution for those parts of the country that Ryan is dealing with. It is clear that with the income requirements adopted by the Storting, market interest rates plus 10 pst. and where to make funds with a base capital of 300 million. kr and upwards, there will be no solution as such for the areas which the proposer wishes to take. Therefore, it is positive and necessary that we make some new border crossings, which I feel the department is doing well, and which the Stortinget will have the appropriate opportunity to go through properly. Once this review has been carried out by the Government, the Storting will have the opportunity to discuss this on a much better and heavier basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e251	The government is aware of the need to introduce risk capital into business. It is primarily in the start-up phases, when ideas are developed and a business is on the verge of commercialisation, that there may be a basis for governments to enter into venture capital. That is why it is an important matter and I have taken note of the views expressed in the proposal, the comments of the Committee and so far the debate here today. Today, we have an instrument that broadly respects the concerns enshrined in the proposal. As mentioned above, three state and semi-state equity instruments are designed to meet the need for risk capital for business. It's the seed scheme with its funds, it's the SND Invest AS and the State Investment Company AS. In addition, SND provides low risk and risk loans for rural business. The new investment company shall invest in privately owned funds, which shall once again enter individual enterprises at an early stage. The company is located in Bergen and has the entire country as a strikefield for its investments. The company could become a useful instrument in the construction of new funds. The seed scheme is based on an interaction between public and private capital. It consists of five regional and one nationwide funds. Seed funds shall enter an earlier phase than the investment company. As a result of the low liquidity in the market, seed companies have found it difficult to raise private capital, while not being sold out of existing involvement at the rate expected. All in all, this has led to the fund not increasing its capital base or to the release of capital for new investments in the amount both necessary and desirable. For regional funds, it has been a particular problem that they are small. Small funds often have a low optimal risk profile and vulnerable administration. Furthermore, cross-border cooperation has been difficult, in particular with a view to obtaining private capital and finding the right projects. I will contact the funds as soon as possible, after the last round of the issue of the seed scheme has been completed on 31 March this year, to discuss the experience of the funds so far. The areas we want to discuss are the geographical and industrial boundaries of the funds, the size of the funds and their governance models, including how one has benefited from the expertise of the private investors involved. The points of view that emerge will form the basis for a reassessment of the Seed Funds as a commercial policy instrument. After the signals I have received so far, I think it is more appropriate to build on the model we have with seed funds than to build up a new fund for industrially poor areas. This is in line with the Sem Declaration. Such a line will ensure continued regional anchoring of the funds, while building up ownership and administrative competence in the districts. However, I see certain steps that can improve the system. We can raise the funds by specializing and thus gaining professional competence with the whole country as a working area and investment area. We must not get a system that locks in both competence and activity geographically. I think I can see the outlines of such an inclusion in Document No. The 8th proposal. A more open system based on interaction and exchange of competences across regional borders will benefit the districts, at my discretion. Through the investment company and more flexible use of the seed scheme, we will be able to achieve this objective. The review of the seed scheme will be part of the broad evaluation of the currently ongoing instrument. Work is scheduled to be completed after the summer of 2002. The starting point for the review will be all types of direct business-related instruments, including grants, loans, guarantees, equity, information, advice, infrastructure and networks. The possibilities for strengthening access to capital and the development of economic activity in economically poor areas are an important part of this review. The conclusion will be presented to Stortinget in an appropriate way, in which form we will get back to. It would be natural to look at the proposal that has been put forward here in such a context. So some comments on what has been addressed direct questions about, and some comments on some statements: Fossli said that SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre had pointed out and been very concerned about the cuts in the SND and the impact it had on the relocation. Well, it's as it says in the comment from the committee in the opening – I kept saying – despite the fact that for 20 years the Stortinget has made a lot of decisions that you shouldn't leave the districts, an undeniable fact that half of the municipalities in Norway have had a deportation. I think it is quite obvious that framework conditions on a broad basis, both direct and indirect, have an impact – of course – on the settlement. It is impossible to imagine living in the districts without jobs, and then jobs that are profitable. Hedstrom specifically asked when this matter came to Stortinget. I suggested that during the summer, i.e. before the Storting comes together for the harvest, has a clear view of this review and what is to be promoted towards Stortinget. How this will be done, I must be allowed to come back to. There are two possibilities. One is in budgetary terms, and the other is in a matter of its own. We have to get back to that. So both Hedstrøm and Arnstad asked what we're prioritizing in the review we have. Now it's actually like we're having a pretty big meeting with all of the underlying agencies that make up the agency. We have had a difficult process now, where all the instruments have been asked to make recordings, and there are 16 written recordings, i.e. from almost everyone except one, as far as I can see, showing strengths, weaknesses, possible overlaps, possible proposals for changes, etc. In addition, we have gone to all business organisations on a broad front, and we have received input from 35 nationwide organisations that have views both in relation to our objectives, what resources we should put in place, and – ultimately – what organisation we should have on this. I think it is important that we have quite clear perceptions initially of what is the overall purpose of all of these direct instruments. We're using a significant number of billions for these instruments. It is important, as Ryan suggested, that we not only distribute money in the East and the West, but that there is something that can contribute to the objective of creating profitable jobs in the districts, which in turn means that we get to live in the same districts. But the sum of it all should, at my discretion, be based on an increase in value creation, that it increases the pie that is for distribution through what we distribute through the instrument. I also believe that it would be natural to focus more on regional development than to have an absolute development in employment and housing in all of the 430–440 municipalities in the country. So I think it is important to have the objective that we should make Norway generally an interesting country to establish business in. I believe that, from the very beginning of this review of the instrument, we should assume that it is important to also have an international perspective on this for two reasons: firstly, because we are in an open market nationally. We are exposed to competition from abroad in almost all fields. We know that after the WTO round, there may be even fewer areas where we are not exposed to competition. In that case, it would not be appropriate to persuade companies to start production that we know will lose in international competition. And secondly, because we others have to close that value gap in relation to the perspective of the oil age. This means that we need to have an international look at the competitiveness of the companies we establish. It is not beneficial to be competitive in-house, but to be able to withstand international competition in order to allow exports as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e285	Inge Ryan has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e288	I have two questions for the Minister of Industry. Question no. 1: Does the Minister of Industry believe that the investment company of the new State is an instrument that will help the small businesses out in District Norway, or will it be an instrument that will help the larger enterprises in central regions? We know that there are wave valleys in the Kingdom of Norway. Right now we see that there are some areas in the country that are on their way up, especially the coast has positive trends, while some strokes in the interior of Norway, from the south of the country to the north of the country, actually experience a wave valley where you are struggling to preserve existing jobs and to create new ones. Question no. 2: Does the Council of State think that it is a task for the Grand Duchy and for the Government to help the areas that experience wave valleys, by introducing specific measures in such places when private capital is not available, so that the settlement can be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e300	The first question was what the Council of State believes about the state's investment company, whether it will help small businesses in the districts, or whether it will largely help the big ones in the central districts. I don't think it's possible to draw any clear conclusion on that. But I don't imagine that the state's investment company will be the most targeted instrument to help the smallest businesses in the districts, where the purpose is to take care of the last issue raised by the representative, namely to maintain the settlement in the districts. I believe that the investment company is primarily important in order to achieve total innovation in the areas that have flashed out to be the field of activity for it. So ask the representative Ryan if the government believes it is important to contribute to maintaining the settlement in the districts, and then it points to the fact that many of the industries that are believed to be future industries will be naturally located in the coastal areas, while the inner east region, as it has been pointed out recently, may come a little in the backyard in that way. Well, now we have to hope that the evolution that the owner of understanding has suggested does not become a reality, because there is no doubt that very many industries will be able to operate just as well in the inner east region as elsewhere in the country. But it is an undeniable fact that what has been pointed out will be the future industries, to a lesser extent will be located there. In addition, it must be assumed that the number of annual jobs in agriculture will continue and we know how important agricultural employment is in some of these areas. This means that there is a need to focus more on the specific areas if we are to maintain the ambition of the Storting and, as there is a broad consensus, if the main pattern of housing and employment is to be maintained. This means that in the review we are going to have of the instruments, the intention contained in Ryan’s proposal will be evaluated and taken care of in the outreach of these areas. Because it can't be that the instruments we set up apply in all the 435 municipalities in the country, when you have different challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e307	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2106]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e323	The Court of Auditors has held in Document No. 1 for 2001-02 again demonstrated and confirmed its central position in effective control of management. And I'd like to add: the more important it is that the Stortinge provides frameworks, so that the Riksrevision can carry out the tasks it's assigned to, in the best possible way. These frameworks give the Stortinget the opportunity to come back to when we're going to discuss the law on national audit, but it'll certainly also be a topic when we're going to discuss the so-called SIVA case in case no. 4th@item: inlistbox I am not going to comment on the notes made for the financial year 2000 just to draw attention to the fact that a number of errors and deficiencies have been identified once again. Like the National Audit Office, the Committee takes a serious view that the accounts have not been approved for the Rikshospitalet, Aetat Arbeitsdirektoratet, Foreign Affairs Directorate, State Agriculture Administration, the State Korn Business and the Sami secondary schools in Karasjok and Kautokeino. The Committee expects these to be matters which will be followed up by the departments responsible, alongside the institutions concerned. The Committee also notes that significant weaknesses in financial management have been identified in several activities. The Committee expects management to follow up the problems identified. However, it should be noted that the Committee has noted that several departments are aware of the problems and refer to proposed measures to improve the situation. The Committee is serious about the non-compliance with public procurement rules in several activities. This will give Stortinget the opportunity to debate further when the matter of State Building comes up later in the spring. It is, as you know, a matter which the Committee has chosen to deal with separately. In general, the Committee considers that it is essential that the Government and the departments follow the reports of the National Audit Office and the Committee's observations in this area as well, and calls on the Government to make a general statement on the extent to which the legislation is not being followed up in this area and on what measures the Government will take. I also refer you to the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e338	I intend to be very brief in this matter. There's really no reason, because the government accounts are not exactly a merry reading, to say it carefully. After reading this for the first time, I did not know if I should laugh or cry. On the TV 2 news, I have previously stated that some states until now seem to have been run like a sausage stall. Actually, it was probably very unfair to the country's asylum dwellers, who seem to have managed the store all but finely compared to Aetat, the Rikshospitalet, the Foreign Affairs Directorate, etc. The larger the sums in circulation, the more one should expect from the financial management, especially since government agencies are not exactly the slowest in imposing sanctions on private enterprises for sometimes de minimis errors. Through a close family member, who is an accountant in a smaller accounting company, I have been made aware that the net sum of NOK 295.92 was misguided due to a misunderstanding, caused a great deal of public interference, even if the error was corrected quite immediately. This and many other similar examples contrast in horror with what this document reveals by serious public error. In a later case, as has been said, we will discuss the Court of Auditors' right of access. The document here does well to show with all clarity that the need for this right of access is not exactly absent, and in fact there could be reason to suggest that the Stortinge took three months' leave to figure out policies, and instead sat down and checked out all the decisions and assumptions that have not been met. Here there are both dogs and fortunes buried, to say it like that. In an open consultation on State-building, it was discussed whether the organisation of the establishment itself could be the cause of constant exceedances. Now there is no State-Building theme here, and the Committee has also not put forward a position on this matter. The government also assesses the form of organisation, so that it will not be natural to shoot anything at all. But on a general level, it is worth noting that it may seem that the etats à la Statsbyggen are in many ways in a fuzzy grey zone with quite unclear responsibilities and cracking signals. In such a situation, it may not be difficult to understand that budgets in recent years have rarely proved to be more of a naive starting point. We could probably have been debating this document for hours. I don't think that serves any purpose. I have good hope that the Co-operation Administration will take the necessary organisational steps to ensure that this document becomes a little smaller in volume next year. I also hope that there is no culture where in the various departments it must seem almost uninteresting what observations the Riksrevision makes, something that you can get a creeping feeling of has been the situation until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e351	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2106]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e367	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2106]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e383	The annual treatment of the control by the National Audit Board of the government’s management of the State’s interests in companies, banks, etc. gives us a good overview of what's going on in this area. The aim of the Riksaudition’s control is to take a position as to whether the Council of State has exercised its task of managing the State’s interests in line with the Storting’s assumptions and decisions. One of the issues raised is the comments made by the National Audit Office in connection with the Government’s management of the Society for Industrial Growth SF, SIVA. A majority of the committee criticises the ministry and asks the Government to explain in which other specific cases the Riksaudition has been refused access to the file and the reasons for its refusal. SV is involved in this majority, and SV's further position will be presented by Christian Holm later. The Committee has taken note of the fact that the Riksrevision has had matters relating to the administration of the Council of State in a number of departments, and the Committee expects that matters which the Committee and the Riksrevision have commented on will be corrected. I will then go over to take what SV has written in comments about NRK. We are surprised that the Committee will not ask the National Audit Board to examine to what extent the NRK, having been transformed into a limited liability company, is following the principles of a public broadcaster and what measures have been taken by the Ministry to comply with these principles. And that's not all principles. NRK is our most important cultural institution. The NRC has an important democratic mission, the NRC has an important co-responsibility to ensure that the Norwegian multicultural population has a knowledge base to participate in important debates, and is to ensure that we have a wide range of news, facts, comments and debates on social issues, as stated in the NRC Statutes. In many ways, the NRK stands for quality, but there is cause for concern for increasing commercialisation of the NRK, with increasing focus on ratings. We have received several examples of this, and the recent debates have been high on the closure of important programmes that respect these principles. The debate on district offices also belongs here. SV calls for a debate on whether the Storting through the Ministry exercises the required active ownership when market forces become more and more precursors of media front developments, of which the NRK is part. I believe at least that the Riksrevision is free to take up this relationship, regardless of what the Committee and the Storting say, and that gives me hope. I also refer to the comments made by the Committee in the other departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e400	It's just a short comment from the Workers' Party. On page 4, column 2 of the configuration, SIVA, the relationship between SIVA and the Riksrevision and the need for transparency in documents are mentioned. The Committee has a rather cumbersome comment, which states that ‘it is strange to wonder about the Ministry’s reference to the government’s opinion on proposals for new legislation and instructions for the Riksrevision’, and that they use it as a justification for the refusal of transparency. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to add the following: How much transparency the National Audit Office will have in the future, the Workers' Party will announce through the work of the Ranveig Frøiland Committee, which is due to be completed on 15 June this year. But we have also noticed that there are two governments, both the government of Stoltenberg and the government of Bondevik, who have drawn up an opinion, and they have taken a relatively restrictive line in relation to what the Riksrevision should have of the right of access to internal documents. Of course, this is at the root of the Workers' Party's further work on this issue, but will not be absolute in our assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e409	I have also asked for the floor to comment further on the questions raised in relation to what is in the case documents under item 3.2 in relation to SIVA and access to documents. What we are involved in through what the Riksrevision has written in its report to the Stortinget raises a number of fundamental questions. Of course, these fundamental questions need to be clarified by the legal process of the Grand Duchy in relation to the new law of the National Audit Office. So let's think about that. Therefore, we should not in any way use this case as a pretext for this legal proceedings. Nevertheless, it may be good to devote some time to evaluating the questions raised by the case. The foundation of the Storting, regardless of the lot and regardless of who is in the Government, should be the Riksrevision is and shall be the Supervisory Body of the Storting. It is interesting to note that in a letter of 6 July 2001, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs mentions the question of the extent to which the Court of Auditors is entitled to require the submission of notes, etc. I find it hard to see that it is so doubtful what is current law and practice. Over a number of years, I am not aware that there has been a frequent phenomenon that the Riksrevision has been denied transparency. That being said, it may be okay to clarify to what extent this has happened in view of the legal process we will be going on later. That is why there is an overall committee that wants us to have an overview of which specific cases have actually been refused the Riksaudition Transparency. It'll be pretty exciting to see how thick that report is. In any case, it may be very useful that we have a common perception of what is current practice before we have to have a final solution to these fundamental questions. I think we're going to go wrong if different parties talk past each other in relation to whether a new proposal for law, when it comes, involves a restriction or an extension of the Court of Auditors' right of access. For my part, I would like to assume that there is no need for any restriction or extension of the Court of Auditors' right of access, but that we should legislate what has been current practice. But we're going to get back to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e416	I have been rapporteur for the part of the case that has been about SIVA, so I thought I would make a little bit of the comments that the committee has. In concrete terms, the Riksrevision asked for transparency in a note on the future organisation and management of SIVA, the Society for Industrial Growth. It was rejected by the Ministry, including the question of transparency in parts of the document. And it is clear from the correspondence between the Ministry and the National Audit Office that there is a different understanding of the right of access. The Ministry points out that this is a note with the Ministry's internal considerations and discussions, and that it has not been possible to see from legal interpretation and practice that the Riksrevision could require such documents. The Ministry shows, among other things: to the Government's proposal that the Riksrevision should not be able to require access to documents of the Government or the departments which give rise to considerations of a political nature. The National Audit Office, on its side, states that the audit must decide for itself what information is needed to carry out the control tasks imposed by the Stortinget, and that in practice only government notes have been exempted from this. It is an overall committee that states that you cannot see any relationship that indicates that the document in question should not have been delivered. The majority, i.e. The Labour Party, SV and the Advance Party, have wondered that the Department, among other things. adopts a hearing opinion from the Government on the new law of the National Audit Office. The majority stress that transparency will not be clarified until the adoption of new law, as has also been pointed out by other speakers here. There is an overall committee which, on the basis of this, wishes to make a statement by the Ministry on the other issues in which the Riksaudition has been refused transparency and the reasons for these rejections. The Committee has not here agreed on a common wording, but I perceive the difference between the comments of the majority and the minority as nuances. The majority also say that they want clarity in these circumstances before the draft new law for the National Audit Office is presented to the Stortinget. Now I have understood that the Workers' Party and the Right have taken some reservations, or moderated it a little in my view, quite clear the criticism that is expressed in the comments. SV has, for its part, gone further in a note with the Progress Party, stressing that the Riksrevision must have full freedom to choose which documents are necessary to fulfil its control function. The exception has been, as I mentioned, government notes. The Ministry has stated that opinions of the Stortinget supporting the interpretation of the right of access on the basis of which the Riksrevision is based are not known. I do not have an overview of what the Storting has said, or not said, about this. But at least we see it so that the partly unanimous comments of the Committee on this matter have to be seen as such an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e439	I think this is a rather sad day. As several speakers have pointed out, we are talking about clarifying a question that has been resolved so far. It has been clarified all the time until this case showed up that the Riksrevision itself determines which documents the Riksrevision should have access to. There has been no confusion about that. It was the previous government that created this ambiguity, and today the majority in this Chamber confirms that that ambiguity must be there. It's eye-catching, worrying and shocking. Think about the Managing Director of a larger company saying when the auditor asked to have access to some documents: No, you don't! And if you came into the public room and said that a manager of a large, well-known company denied the state-authorised auditor transparency in order to check and sign the accounts in order for them to go to Brønnøysund, then there would be a ramaskrik with demands for intervention, for better lawmaking, and one would establish the principle that the auditor himself decides which documents he should see. – This is the case with everyone else. Today, therefore, the bulk of the population, all except the SV and the Progress Party, creates confusion about the practice and the custom that has been, namely, that of course – I say, of course, because this is discussed at all, is remarkable – it must be the Riksaudier, the inspector, who determines what the controller needs to be transparent in order to carry out his control. The majority of people now create uncertainty about this is that now the controller may be allowed to limit the transparency of the controller. In all other areas, this would have been unheard of. What in the world is that that goes by the bulk of the population as they start to talk about this all of a sudden we're going to get back to? Let me read a little from a comment in the setting, which should have been from a unanimous committee: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left agree with the Riksrevision that it would not be possible to carry out effective control if the controlled party were to decide for itself which documents the inspector should have access to.’;» So this does not mean the Right, this does not mean the Workers' Party and this does not mean the Christian People's Party – and they make a so-called postponement of the case to a selection that works, comes up with a new proposal for the law of the National Audit Office. That's when you create the ambiguity. The first time that Stortinget has the opportunity to establish something that has been in force, the bulk of the population says no. I don't understand what's going on with the majority. We are trying to teach to some other countries how to build national audits, and what principles to apply, and then the majority themselves suddenly deviates from that principle. It is clear that some parties have been and are very busy getting into government. Sometimes I wonder if they forgot why they came to government when they got there. But it seems that you're so concerned about it, you're so busy there, you don't get checked, you give directives to your own members of the national Parliament about ease of control, because it can be unpleasant. So the members of the National Assembly sit, and instead of being members of the National Assembly, the posted employees of the Government, who don't like any untimely control. I am shocked that the majority is not in that comment from the SV and the Progress Party. That's how it has been until this case with SIVA showed up. Now there is confusion, now there are hopes in some parts of the central government that they might begin to fight back against the gross transparency of the Riksrevision. It's totally unacceptable in our opinion. I think it is sad that we in Norway too should come to that stage that we are trying to teach all the other countries that they are going to introduce what we have had, but that we are now kind of leaving. Because the confusion you talk about coming back to has not been there until today. This is the only known example of the refusal of the Riksrevision in recent times. Instead of stating that it was a one-off case, of which we are not going to have anything more, the majority is now making a blur. I think that is sad and sad, and it is not worthy of the Norwegian National Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e465	Every year, the National Audit Office presents a document on the control of the interests of companies and banks of the State Council, i.e. the Ministry. For 2000, the National Audit Office has comments on the administration of the Society for Industrial Growth by the Council of State, SIVA, which is mentioned here today. SIVA is a national entity for added value creation and employment in the districts. The company had an average of 40 employees in 2000 and 32 subsidiaries. The company had a per. On 31 December 2000, a capital injection of 514,5 million. NOK 244.5 million. 1999 kr. The Court of Auditors’ note states that they have been denied access to a document dealing with issues related to the administration of the State’s interests in the SIVA by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. To the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the National Audit Office has requested a copy or a limited extract from a note from the Regional Policy Department on ‘SIVA – Future Organisation and Geographical Dimension’. The Ministry has refused access to the document. The National Audit Office states that it is difficult for it to carry out the control task it is charged with by Stortinget, whether or not the administration should determine which documents the National Audit Office can obtain. The Ministry asks how far the Riksrevision’s right goes when it comes to requiring transparency in notes containing internal discussions and discussions. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs indicates that they cannot see that the Stortinge has given support to the Riksrevision for which the Riksrevision here is a spokesman. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs therefore believes that there should be no change in current practice until the Stortinget has examined proposals for new law and instructions for the National Audit Office. The Ministry has also said that they are at the disposal of the National Audit Office with a view to providing all information on its policy in each area. The case does not only deal with the specific case of SIVA. The case with SIVA is important to mention, but when I take it up, it's primarily because the issue is a matter of principle. The case concerns the transparency of documents on a general basis. There are important issues for the Storting's control of the Government, and it therefore has implications for the balance of power in our political system. The Christian People's Party would stress that the Stortinget's control of government is a fundamental element of our state-style, and that the Riksrevision is a necessary hub for the Stortinget to lead such a control. It is therefore positive that there is now an initiative for a review of the Riksrevision acquis. The size has seven established rules on publicity for much of its activity. One has, among other things: recognize that documents and hearings on matters dealt with by the Committees shall be public. Since there seems to be a little different views of the practice with transparency, the Christian People's Party therefore sees it as positive that there is now a review of the single legislation of the Riksrevision. We're too open and public as an ideal, and we're against a closed society. It also applies to the work of the Department. The co-operation management works for more openness and transparency in the administration. It places an emphasis on the Sem Declaration, and it has been hoped that the principle of publicity will be more consistently implemented. Likewise, most people should know that Stortinget has an organ that is capable of making sure that things go right. This is particularly important. to prevent corruption and economic fraud. The national audit should therefore have the best possible basis for making its assessments. But when that is said, the Christian People's Party clearly sees that in some cases it may be difficult to comply with total openness. The need to preserve the credibility of the government and the ministry's internal discussions is a valid and parliamentary practice that needs to be considered. I would therefore like to point out that government notes and what are happening before that of political assessments, such as, among other things. Notes to the Councils of State and between Councils of State, clearly should be without prejudice to the Court of Auditors’ transparency. If these are to be open, it will be difficult to have reliable discussions, and it will therefore be very difficult to design the policy. However, the National Audit Office cannot pass on such information to the Stortinget, so the documents will not be open to public access. The Christian People's Party wants an open society, but there doesn't have to be any contradiction between such openness and the ability to really shape a policy in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e484	The representative Hagen thinks this is a sad and sad day, and it might be if you put a lot of effort into what it might be that there is disagreement about here. I think the disagreement is very small, and that there's more of a question about what kind of temperament and what kind of patience you have to put systems in place. I think that one of the fundamental differences between the representative Hagen and some other representatives here in the house is exactly what Hagen himself used as a picture, the company. It is clear that if you draw an absolute parallel and perceive the central government, the government, as an enterprise, I agree with Hagen. But there's a lot of other things within the administration of a state, of a society. The majority don't deviate from these principles, which Hagen very meritfully presents from here, but we're saying that now there's a new law around the corner, we're putting things in place there. In this specific case, on the subject of SIVA, the comments are very clear. The majority do not see that there was any reason why the National Auditor should not have insight into this matter, so you have not moved stones in any wrong direction here. It is said that here the government should have had insight, and the representative of the Auchan pointed out some of these things that must be taken care of in order for this transparency to be practical and sensible. But the main principle is that, of course, the Supervisory Body of Storting, the National Audit Office, will have access to everything that is necessary and relevant for their control on behalf of the Stortinget. Nor should it be such as to create arrangements that prevent the government’s internal work towards a decision from being where it should be, namely in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e491	I feel that there are some who later don't understand the fundamental discussion that is going on here, so I'll spell it again. It's relatively simple. If there are different views between a department or government and the Riksrevision in respect of a document which the Riksrevision wishes to deliver in order to carry out its control, is the view of the department or government applicable, or is the Riksrevision’s view applicable? It's that simple. It can't be both. We are talking here about the situations where there is disagreement, as was the case with the Ministry of Local Affairs. Here SV and the Progress Party respond clearly: If there is a disagreement about what the Riksrevision will get from documents, then the Riksrevision will decide. The controlling body of the Storting is above the government and the department. We'll make that clear. The rest of the parties don't. They do not choose to settle the question of principle. The alarm should go when the Riksrevision – I quote from the setting on page 4 – says: ‘The Court of Auditors will also point out that, through long-term practice, the law on State Audit Service § 2 has been used to provide access to documents, and in practice only government notes have been exempted. The national audit’s right to information therefore also includes transparency in the administrative internal documents where, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, these are relevant to elucidate the issue under consideration.’;» We say that we should not have any change in the practice of Section 2 of the existing legislation, to which the Ministry of Local Affairs provided. It is clear that this matter cannot be seen completely isolated from the sample that is now in work, to which several others have referred. It is also referred to the Government’s hearing opinion. It is the department, possibly the department's office, that complains that the previous government for the first time raised doubts about it in its opinion on the new law on the Riksrevision of what is called the Constitutional Court. It was in itself alarming that the government of Stoltenberg had the view it expressed. There was a great deal of attention in many places, especially at the National Audit Office, which now sees an attempt by the administration to limit the transparency of the National Audit Office. That's what this is all about. The others should not pretend otherwise! The more shocking it became when the government of Bondevik confirmed the same view as the government of Stoltenberg. We've had two governments in a row that, in a way – at least it can work like this – act more like the government's extended arm towards the Stortinget and the Superintendent of the Stortinge, the Riksrevision, than to make sure that we get a proper system that we can be familiar with externally. Then it becomes unclear when the other parties cannot answer a crystal-clear yes, in a conflict it is the Riksrevision, the Supervisory Body of the Storting, who will be the winner – in this context – of the government and department, the subordinates. This is a relatively long-term struggle between government and big business. So now it's a huge majority that wants the government to win that power struggle. That's the alarming thing. You shouldn't pretend you're not aware of it. Modulf The increment mixed the concepts somewhat violently. When the Riksrevision asks for transparency, it has nothing to do with getting the public to do about it. You must not confuse the public and the transparency of an auditor. The national audit shall not ask for access to the document to be sent to the daily newspaper. The national audit shall have access to the document in order to carry out its own audit. That's what this is all about. It has nothing to do with publicity and public space at all. As one from the Government has finally asked for the floor, I would like to ask a question. I quoted from the National Audit Office's statement. It would have been nice to confirm that the sitting government disagrees with the Riks revision. Is it so to understand that the sitting government wants to refuse access to documents that the Riksaudition itself believes they need? That's the principle. Is it really the Government's position that if the Government has a document that it would not want the Riksaudition to get hold of, is it to understand that you want a management system and a democracy system that is such that a government or a department will then be able to deny that document to the Riksaudition? Here you can say a clear yes or no. You could say, yes, we in the government want the power to decide for ourselves which documents the supervisor, the Riksaudition, will get. Or say it this way: we as the government will deliver any document that the Riksrevision asks for, without any objections? The challenge goes to Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e511	I will not take part in the debate on the opinions to be given to different fractions that have been expressed in the committee position. However, I believe that there is a majority in the Chamber who have stated that they want to discuss the issue of transparency in addition to the specific case, the SIVA, which is mentioned in the vote, that on a more general basis they want to discuss it in connection with the new law on the Riksrevision, and refer, among other things. to the so-called Frøiland Committee. In this way, I think it makes a lot of sense to be able to see the whole thing. I do not believe that in the individual case mentioned in the setting, the Riksrevision’s right of access has been reduced in any way. In the setting, the Government has also been asked to explain in what other specific cases the Riksrevision has been refused transparency and the reasons for this. Such material will be provided by the Government. You can always discuss what information value is in it. The prerequisite for asking if the material is that you know it. It is not all internal political documents in a department as reported. To the question of whether this government wants to refuse more transparency than before, I can only say that we don't want to do that. I believe that by referring to the hearing opinion sent to the Frøiland Committee by this government and from the previous government, one just states that there is no need for any change in practice, at least not in a restrictive direction. I am aware that such a hearing opinion has limited value, but it is now all in this context that the sitting government has generally expressed its opinion on the right of access. I don't see it as any restriction on the question from the representative Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e522	I feel the need for the tame of the debate to make a few brief comments to the representative Hagen, whom I also think in this case shows a considerable ability to cook soup on a nail. It is basically simple to pursue politics and demagogy if one starts by caricing the position of political opponents, and then goes into attacks at positions you don't have. So I'm going to recommend that representative Hagen think about what you're actually saying. An overall committee notes, which the representative of the UK has also made clear in the past that the document in question is to be seen by the Riksrevision. We do not want through this case to start a substantive examination of the case on the new law of the Riksrevision – that is what the representative Hagen actually proposes. We'll do that when we get that case processed. It may in fact be good to have a case in mind, with case documents and a thorough committee procedure in advance, before one concludes what this should be like. But a new law for the National Audit Office is on the way, and we look forward to dealing with that matter. I just want to remind you of what I said in my first post, that my and the right starting point in that case will be that there is no need to restrict the Court of Auditors' right of access. I don't think there is a need to extend the Riksaudition's right of access. However, what is needed is to legislate – clearly – what is current practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e540	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2106]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e556	Document No 3:3 from the Riksrevision shows that in a few years, alarming numbers have become dissatisfied without having tried vocational rehabilitation first, including many young people. The purpose of the study has been to assess the effectiveness of the work of the Social Security Agency and Aetats on vocational rehabilitation before disability, the cooperation between the departments in this context and the work of the institutions on reactivation of disability pensioners. Various measures to reduce the number of accidents in general have been taken by both departments and agencies since this report was presented, and it may appear that the rate of access has fallen somewhat in recent times. However, in the paradoxical and not least sad situation, there is a cry for labour on the one hand, while, on the other hand, there is — potentially — over one million people, including many young people, who could either be brought back to work or who could perhaps work more. Many people sincerely want to get back to work, but put their heads in the wall and lose motivation on the way. The report is partly outdated and measures for reasons of the need for demarcation, of course, only a minor part of a larger case complex. The Committee considers it important that the perspective be broadened in the context of the report and has therefore underlined in its comments the need to consider whether a common regulatory framework for the social services of municipalities can address the structural barriers that exist today and the need for a careful assessment of the possible full administrative aggregation of the establishments. In connection with this Government, the Committee requests that the signals given by Professor Bjørn Hvinden, in open consultation with the Committee, be followed up by the establishment of a common reporting system for the departments. Because today's problem is that there are the same people who almost go canoeing between different budgets and agencies, that you don't have a clear overview of where these are at all times, and not least that you can't get enough of any success stories. Aetat, in open consultation, and not least in the media, has become the big, ugly wolf in deceiving people seeking help. I think it is important that we, as politicians, are a little cautious about shooting from the hip to an aetat that is characterized by a great turnover, a weakened professional environment, a difficult recruitment situation – and how much time is involved in the internal training of new employees at the expense of out-of-work towards businesses and individuals. I'm glad the government has given clear signals that you want to strengthen Aetat; I don't think that's a second too early. For my part, I have made a small round trip to some local social security offices and Aetat offices on behalf of the Right and our fraction in the committee during the work on this document. The Party-Dop generation has taken in and poses complex mental problems such as the etas per. has no competence to handle today. Disability organisations have told some shocking stories about how some of their members without further assessment are viewed as a reflection of hopeless cases. For myself, for several years I have been working with mentally retarded people and seeing what they are able to master just it is being facilitated, and it is a little sad to see that those who presumptuously want to help people who, for various reasons, have problems getting into the labour market are shutting them out and making sacrifices for what can be called ‘the madness of normality’. The Committee has received clear feedback that some Aetat offices sometimes focus too much on the individual’s physical and mental limitations rather than the functioning of their offices, and that these offices are also characterised by a lack of competence in relation to the new young users. In those cases where Aetat, social security and enterprises have focused on functionality, this has often worked beyond expectations, but it requires much, in terms of time use and not least in terms of resource use. As mentioned, I think a common regulatory framework can be a good contribution. The organisations of persons with disabilities have pointed out that the assessment of necessary and appropriate remedial measures is often based on an assessment of job opportunities at the place of residence of beneficiaries. The Committee takes the view that the labour force in today's society is mobile and that such practices are too sparse in accordance with current legislation. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of following up the commitment of the social partners last year by the Government with a clear focus also on the issue addressed in Document No. 3:3. To date, the debate has focused largely on sick people and on sick pay. A point which is not directly affected in the Committee's comments, but which was given great importance on 7 March this year during the debate on Mr Bastisen's proposal Document No. 8:3 on measures that can help fewer young people to fall out of the labour market through early retirement is the need to enter school early and to provide a strong counselling service. I just refer here to the cross-political consensus that I seemed to reflect in that debate, and the opinions given by both the undersigned and others during this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e586	The need and ability to ensure that each individual in this country is able to influence his or her own ability to follow in the development of well-being is strongly linked to work. Work is in many ways the instrument that enables individuals in this country to participate in welfare development through their own participation. At the moment you get into such a situation of life that for some reason you are placed in the social security system, you are deprived of that opportunity in many ways. It is therefore important for the public to be able to facilitate reintroduce, ensure that people in a difficult situation of life, either because of social development, economic development or health development, are able to return to work as quickly as possible. I had almost said: the public system can hardly be more active in combating poverty than making sure that you have a recovery device that works, which gives people the opportunity to get back to work. It is as the representative André Dahl pointed out, that if you are more concerned with recording restrictions in public than you are with recording them, you will always be defensive. That is why the Riksrevision report is important, even though it is old. It may be discussed whether it has any value to process and discuss an audit report in an area where the problem has changed so much over the years since it was completed. Well, it has a value, because what makes it clearly visible is how little the public's ability to turn from looking at constraints to looking at opportunities. My opinion is that if the public isn't good, whether we're talking about the social security system, the social security system or the social security offices, if not the ability to look for man's opportunities, we can't, no matter how many rules we have or how much money we put at our disposal, satisfy what must be our starting point: provide the individual with an opportunity through his own work to provide his own income. One is that this is individually important. The second is that it will not be possible for us to meet the welfare challenges of the future unless we provide more workers. If we are to pick everything up from the industry, we are clearly creating a major issue of nutrition policy in Norway. So we both have to convert into the public sector and make sure that people who are today being sentenced out of work have an opportunity to continue. Then it's something I'm very amazed at. I see that the Minister of Labour and Administration is here, and I would like to ask him a question. On page 7 of the referral, the majority of the Committee has a comment – the Right and the Christian People's Party is not included in this comment – on the need to facilitate incentives for employers to accept workers with disabilities. I am unable to understand why the Right Party and the Christian Party are against this. That must have been done in cooperation with the Government. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear whether it is actually such that incentives to employers are not an instrument that should be given priority in terms of employing people with disabilities. It's really going to be interesting to hear what other alternative you have. I believe that precisely incentives combined with education, raising skills, which allow people to be introduced to the labour market in a new form, in a new theme, perhaps in another job, are really what can make it possible to build on and stop the unfortunate development in which people actually run out of work. So finally, I hope that this report from the National Audit Office, together with a number of other measures, can be one of the means to enable us to develop the public in such a way that we help people instead of expelling people. We've registered 60,000 disabled people who have one wish, and it's coming in such a situation that they can get back into work. If we fail, we have not only failed in relation to the individual, but we have also failed in relation to welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e601	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e604	I'm just going to sort out something that might seem a misunderstanding. I want to use a concept that is known from editorial committees: what Kosmo calls for us not to be on the committee – the Right and Christian People’s Party diverging – is considered by the case rapporteur to be incorporated into the other. I pointed out that we are looking at legislative changes, at the realization of the Memorandum of Understanding and at an administrative consolidation. I believe, on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, that this takes into account what is called for by the majority here. The second non-participating note, from the Workers' Party and SV, applies to the calculation rule. We think from the Right and Christian People's Party it's a little early on on on the basis of some newspaper headlines and inquiries – we've also received many of us – to say from a control committee after barely three months that the rules have not worked. This is the relatively simple explanation that we haven't been involved in those remarks, but I don't think there's any very big difference in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e613	Since this was a line, I guess I have to answer it, even though I perceived it as a clarification that the Right and Christian People's Party is still interested in having systems, among other things. wages and salaries subsidies, which are an incentive for both public and private employers to be interested in receiving workers with disabilities. I think this is absolutely necessary, and I'm glad that André Dahl now, on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, has made it clear that they are also concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e618	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e621	Suffering from the figures presented by Social Security Director Arild Sundberg in 2001, showed a decline in the number of new workers compared with 2000, it is serious that only one in six were through vocational rehabilitation before they were disqualified in 1999, as this national audit report shows, and that the percentage fell further in 2000. And then we can look at the numbers, and so on, like the representative Cosmo, but it's this trend that's important. So, after ten years of working on welfare policy and repeated demands from politicians that disabled people and other people with disabilities be given the opportunity to work on a paid basis, it is not a good thing. I fully agree with what the representative Kosmo said, that work, and I want to add housing, is the basis for participation in society. Then we have the paradoxical fact that while people generally are good, it becomes more untapped. Then it becomes important for a party like SV – which is concerned not just to look at the consequences, not just to look at the symptoms, but to look at the cause – to ask some fundamental questions about how we can prevent, and not just repair this. Then we have to ask ourselves the question: is there anything wrong with the measures and the organisation of measures, or is it the development of working life that creates unhealthy things? SV believes that we now see the trend towards a rougher and more brutal working life, a working life that doesn't have room for those who can't deliver 100 pst. This has been the case for a long time in the private sector, but now we also see trends in the public sector. In the past, the public sector had room for those who did not have full employment. Now this pocket has been removed in many places, also because the public sector is increasingly operating according to business-economic objectives – each small or large unit will pay off in isolation. The longer-term reorganisation of the public sector, with more outsourcing of competition, is, in our view, an important reason why more and more people who would have contributed their resources are being pushed out of the labour market. As the Bergensavisen could report in 1999: Competition outsourcing results in more and fresher untapped people. I challenge the bulk of the population to take this inward and to stop any plan to erode the work environment law, which I perceive is the government's signals here. If the government gets through the policy they want in that area, I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure when I say we're going to get more untrained and not fewer. But what I'm saying now doesn't mean that we don't have to do any more to get more out of work through professional rehabilitation, and there's a lot of opportunities that we could have put into practice. We all agree on that. But I warn you, and in that respect the rapporteur did, against shooting at the pianist, who has often now been Aetat. It also said Bjørn Hvinden, who was in the hearing, that we must not unilaterally shoot at Aetat when – in our opinion – the organisation of working life is the main problem. So there's a lot that Aetat and the rest of the auxiliaries have to and can do, and a lot we've pointed out. I would like to thank the case rapporteur very much for the thorough work and the work he has done, which has helped us to have a good committee position as we do – because we do. What can we do? Yes, first of all we need coordination and cooperation around the individual. There are too many people who experience falling through when the chair is set in motion, too many who become ballistics in the system, too many who are faced with an A4 attitude that takes away their dignity, and thus the motivation to try out in the workplace. Here we see some opportunities for closer cooperation between the social security system, Aetat and the social security office. It has been proposed many times by SV, and we are pleased that the work of investigating it is in progress. Secondly, the whole facility – school, education, workplace, health and care – needs to cooperate in order to provide a comprehensive range of services and assistance to disabled people in particular. Both users and Aetat are calling for skills development in Aetat. Eetat must have the means to drive the necessary development of skills. Then the Minister of Labour will have to take the signals that are now coming that the resources in the department are thin and that they do not see the possibility of doing the job that is expected. I am aware that the Minister of Labour has added more resources, but I do not think that is enough. So another point: Nordic research indicates that the effect of education on employment is twice as great for the disabled as for the rest of the population. Therefore, as the Committee has said, it is very important that higher education or longer training courses be included inreduction measures. Then finally about the new legislation, which the Workers' Party and SV are united in a note. We cannot, therefore, be given enough emphasis to what has been provided to us by several hearing bodies, namely that the economy is extremely important in relation to the motivation for individuals to use the instruments that are there. And in this regard, the representative, André Dahl, referred to the fact that only three months have passed since the new rules were introduced. However, it seems to me that it is a discharge if you cannot take over the serious signals that have arrived. In this context, I would like to refer to a headline in Dagbladet, which says that like 10,000 other re-routing clients lose a 32-year-old mother in the household next year. Thus, she is forced to give up the studies and the dream of returning to work. This is quite serious, and I encourage the Council of State to say something about what he wants to do with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e644	This vocational rehabilitation is a very important issue, and perhaps especially in these times, where there is so much focus on labour shortages. That is why I think it is very serious that the results which the Riksrevision has presented in its study are as discouraging as they are. What might be the main problem, according to this report, is that users of these offers often fall between two chairs. You have the Social Security Agency, which assesses the individual as being too healthy to receive a disability pension, and then you have Aetat, who may consider the same person as too sick to be in the labour market. It means that there are many who fall between these two chairs and get stuck in a system they don't get out of. The result for 1999 is that it is only 15.4 pst. which has tried to recover before the disability pension is granted. And it's very low and very bad in relation to what's the main rule, that reintroduction should be tried before disability pension is given. We in the Progress Party are of the opinion that it is very positive to get as many people as possible from what you can call passive social benefits to active work. We think that's very important for the individual, so that you can take advantage of your working capacity. It could be 50, 20 or 100 pst. – the important thing is at least to take advantage of the ability to work. On the other hand, it is also very positive for society, as we know there is a shortage of labour. That's why we're very concerned that you get a system that gives you the individual opportunity to try work before you get a disability pension. We have conducted a hearing on this matter, and there we had, among other things. invited Norway's Handicap Association. What emerged at that hearing was that, in particular, Aetat may focus too much on the individual’s limitations rather than the individual’s opportunities. And I think it was very discouraging to hear that a public agency like Aetat is putting obstacles in the way of the individual being given the opportunity to exploit their working capacity and their working capacity. It's very regrettable, and I'm very concerned that it's brought to an end. We in the Progress Party are concerned in the comments we have on this matter, with actions that stimulate both public and private employers to employ people with disabilities. The comments also focus on getting systems that have flexible combination solutions between work and social security, i.e. that individuals can use their 20, 30 or 40 pst. We're very concerned about that. We are also concerned that a job-seeker should be given an incentive to try and work, and that they should also be motivated to try work through their contact with the Social Security Agency and the Aetat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e655	The centre party has no representatives on the control and constitution committee, but I have followed this matter somewhat and looked at the position presented by the committee. It is largely a unanimous committee position, but in some areas it surprises me that some parties are not involved in what should be said in this context. We have a number of positive figures from 2001 in terms of disability and sick pay developments. Figures from the first three quarters of 2001 show that sickness benefit payments have been considerably lower than budgeted for this year, as have disability benefits and payments there. However, this is a very worrying area of policy. I brought the magazine Velferd, published by the FFO. Here it says on the first page that for people with mental problems, the ‘workline is just on paper’. It turns out that among young people, there is a very high rate of disease and absence associated with mental illness. It is such that the number of replaced days of mental illness increased by 120 pst. for the group below 30 years. For those under 40 years of age, mental illness is the most common cause of disability. 45 pst. of the new disability pensioners under 40 years of age have a mental illness as their main diagnosis. This group is perhaps the most difficult to get rehabilitated and into the workplace, as it looks now, and it must therefore do a real job for them. It also applies to another group of young people, young drug users. The follow-up here is very important, as the Committee has pointed out. Furthermore, it is clear that diffuse disorders, i.e. musculoskeletal disorders and other things within that group, mean that work needs to be intensified to find better rehabilitation arrangements for these and less physically burdensome tasks. Then it is also important that the medical rehabilitation facility is good. The problems that many of our training institutions have today, I would like to ask the Government to look at as soon as possible, so that the medical rehabilitation offer really gets on track now, and that both rehabilitation offers and medical rehabilitation can be properly returned to working life. I am very surprised that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are not involved in highlighting the need for measures that stimulate both private and public employers to employ people with disabilities. It's kind of eye-catching that you can't be involved in such an indication of needs. There should be sufficient incentives for both the private and the public sectors, so that those who have been out of work for a while can be recovered and those who have impaired their ability to work, so that they can continue in working life. In this context, I refer to an article from the same newspaper Velferd, which has the following title: ‘A tragedy that the wage subsidy has been removed’. That salary subsidy was very good, but was lost in the swings in connection with the conversion at the turn of the year. It's very bad, because the new salary subsidy that comes now under the agreement between LO/NHO and the Government is in no way the same grant and does not have the same effect. This BIA wage subsidy gave companies an opportunity to retain or reintroduce employees by receiving support for 50 pst. of the compensation of employees of these persons for up to six months, and then you could get 40 pst. of wages and salaries for a further period of up to six months, i.e. a project that could go over an entire year. The wage subsidy as, inter alia: The social committee commented on during the discussion here in Stortinget this week, is a completely different structured grant, which has a shorter duration and, as we also pointed out from the Social Committee, has a rate that is too low if it is to help the employer and employee, as the amount so far has been set at DKK 250 per year. day(s) I raised this in a question to the Social Minister in the debate on this arrangement of agreements, and then it was referred to as the Minister of Administration's domain. I therefore hope the Minister of Administration can answer now why this BIA grant has been removed, and whether it will be put back into a proper function.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e671	I first want to thank the committee for raising a very important topic. I believe that both the study, the hearing and the committee setting are important and useful for this area. It is clear that there is a declaration of failure, both socio-economic and for individuals, when as many people are experiencing disability as is the case in Norway. Work to prevent both the problem occurring during the first round and the work to get these people back to work in the next round has a very high priority. As others have pointed out, it is important here to strike a good balance between prevention and follow-up once problems have arisen. Let me say a little bit about prevention first. Unfortunately, in our opinion, the preventive part of the inclusion work was underestimated in the context of the contract of intention entered into by the previous government with the social partners. We have now come to the conclusion, in agreement with the Labour Inspectorate, that the Labour Inspectorate should prioritise the psychosocial work environment in order to prevent some of the problems and exclusions related to the work environment side. I think an active HMS work in the companies is important to the companies, and it is very important also to prevent the exclusion of part of those who are now being excluded. Another moment I want to mention, and we have to work with, is to make the time between problems arise until you get into vocational rehabilitation much shorter. It doesn't have much to do with the design of Aeta's work, as it does with making the link from medical through social to professionally more coordinated and shorter. That being said, the things we can do concretely about vocational rehabilitation are very important. We are very concerned about this, and have already, for the first time, imposed Aetat, among other things. in the letter of award for the current year, to intensify work on vocational retraining. At the same time, we have made it clear that the threshold to be considered for vocational recruitment is to be set at a much lower level than has traditionally been the case in Norway. In principle, all persons must have the right to qualify for the labour market. If the probability that you can actually work in the normal labour market is 90 pst. or 10 pst. or 5 pst., shall not play a role in the ability to qualify. However, if we are to set the threshold lower, it is also important that we realize that some groups that would otherwise be dissatisfied can only work in the workplace if we have more permanent job placements than we have traditionally had. However, it is not enough that we have more instruments in the reintroduction work. We also need a larger range of types of jobs to be able to offer people. So, in combination with increased efforts for vocational rehabilitation, we also need to invest more in sustainable job creation, and we do. With regard to Aetat's concrete work on vocational retraining, we are in the process of reorganising and strengthening Aetat towards making it better able to function as a qualification seat for all types of jobseekers, including those who require extensive qualification and follow-up work before they are ready for the labour market. In this context, we also consider changes to the financial instrument for the Aetat itself, so that funding can be more closely linked to the specific qualification work carried out for different groups. It is important to avoid getting into a situation where Aetat's budget is designed in a way that either makes it difficult for them to handle the weakest groups in a good way, or where they may be internally encouraged to do other priorities than those we want to base. We will therefore also come back to the question of how Aetat should be financed in the future in the context of the 2003 budget. It is important in this work that closer cooperation be established between Aetat, Social Security and the social services in the municipalities. The local cooperation there has already improved, after the indications we have received, and at least we have instructed Aetat to work hard to get closer and better cooperation, both with the social security systems and the local social services. At the same time, this is a very central element of the project on the coordination of services in the field of employment, social security and social services that the Government is doing, and where we have notified that we are making a major case reasonably soon. In this respect, we will also assess all aspects of the legislation. In this regard, let me make a little heart attack in relation to the post by the representative Kosmo. It is quite clear that this government, and the parties that support this government, is not more negative about the use of financial incentives than other governments we have had in Norway. On the contrary. We believe that economic incentives, both for businesses and for employees, are important for motivating and encouraging and delivering results. I therefore in no way interpret the views of the government parties in the Committee as negative to economic incentives. On the other hand, I think we can say that we think it is a little bit of a problem that the intentional agreement on a more inclusive working life has generally opened up to as limited use of economic incentives as is the case. But we have to live with that. In the areas where we are free to use economic incentives, we are quite open to assess all forms of such incentives. In this context, we also want to assess both how we can better use the current wage subsidy scheme and which other grant schemes may be appropriate to get more people out of work. I initially said that the Committee's work is a very useful input throughout the process to strengthen inclusion work in Norway. In this respect, let me also stress that the intention agreement on a more inclusive working life, which this government is close to, is an agreement where the point of preventing the expulsion of workers and the point of giving more people who are not currently in the labour market, the ability to function well, is just as important as the point that is usually given the most attention, namely what is associated with sick leave. In the follow-up to the agreement, the Government will place at least as much emphasis on the inclusion aspect and on the aspect of preventing exclusion as on the issue of sick leave and sick pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e697	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e713	The main intention of the regional development programmes was expressed in St.meld. No 31 for 1996-1997 and in its treatment by the Grand Duchy: a more effective regional and regional policy through binding links between plans and instruments, based on the conditions and challenges of each region. The intention, as I have seen, has been to move away from a state-driven regional policy and to move on to the region's own development policy. The idea is that key development objectives are best achieved through broad regional cooperation across sectors, organisations and sectors. The intention has been that these will be joint issues for the participants throughout the region. The regional development programmes shall include or give rise to the predominance of the funds allocated for regional and regional policy purposes to the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. In 2000 it was over 2 billion kroner. These include measures and actions in the fields of industrial policy, agricultural policy, fisheries policy and labour market policy. This shows the comprehensive and ambitious objectives. There is reason to stress, at least as SV sees it, that regional development programmes are a good idea. Coordination of economic and employment measures at regional level is useful and important. The national audit, however, comes with clear criticism. The study shows that the regional development programmes have so far failed to live up to their intentions and that significant variation in the degree of success has been observed. In view of this, an overall committee has indicated that the development programmes have not been given sufficient weight. They have been perceived as low-obligatory and little concrete, and they have been too light as a tool in relation to the heavier and more obligating existing planar. The direction of regional development programmes has also been limited by the fact that most of the funds available are application-based and related to unclear criteria. The Committee considers that the programmes only have a limited coordination and cooperation role in regional development. The intention to coordinate different types of instruments, such as industrial policy, agricultural policy and fisheries policy, is too unclear. The different sectors and levels of government in regional development are not sufficiently committed. The National Audit Office’s study shows that regional programmes have been added to the existing planning processes more than act as an integral and simplification tool, and that the reason for this, among other things, is: may be due to the vagueness of the regional communication in this area. The study stated that the central coordination group has been more concerned with preventing development programmes from coming into conflict with their own sectoral objectives than with helping to facilitate regional sectoral work. Against this background, an overall committee believes that the existing planning and management signals need to be reviewed so that they do not conflict with the objective of the regional development programmes. Furthermore, the Committee considers that national resources need to be coordinated. State enterprises must be required to participate in the work on the programmes. They must participate in the realization itself, not just in the planning process. So everyone agrees that the original intentions behind the development programs are not met. From this point on, the Committee distinguishes layers in different ways. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all without the members of the Progress Party, state that there is no reason to turn away from the ambitions. This majority wants, as I understand it, that the further work is arranged with it in order to get to what has so far been quite incomplete. The function of the discussion venue and meeting place is highlighted as important, but far from sufficient. Public associates must be more committed. Development programmes must be given an economic framework and an administrative weight that is proportionate to the ambitions. A second majority of the Committee, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party, question whether the resources deployed are proportionate to the results, and promote a proposal asking the Government to submit an appropriate case on the value of regional development programmes. In addition, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have their own comment that I assume they will explain themselves. So while the majority of them show that they see the value of making the development programmes work according to their intentions, the Progress Party has put forward a proposal to wind up all state grants to them. SV is behind the comments of the majority, but has chosen not to join the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party's proposal. We can't see that this proposal covers what these parties together with SV have expressed in our common notes. There we underline the need for a review of existing plans to make development programmes work according to their intentions. As we see it, the problem does not necessarily lie primarily in the programmes themselves, but in that these have been put on top of the existing plan without any simplification. Simplification should therefore be pursued in the plan rather than rejecting or lowering the level of ambition in the regional development programmes. We would like to stress that, in a joint comment, the Committee recommends a review of the planning and control signals with this in mind. Thus, although the majority proposal is limited to asking for a case on the usefulness of the programmes, SV nevertheless hopes that the Government will see without prejudice to the entire plan. As we see it, there are many of the reasons why the programmes have not yet met expectations, in relation to both the state and the regional actors, and with which, as we understand, something can be done. I've pointed out several of these conditions. We note that the programmes have been most effective in the Nordic countries – one of the three states that the Riksrevision has examined. It is enough that this county has had the most available means to play on in this work. But it can also be seen that this county, which is one of the three most experienced in dealing with district policy instruments, has had the preconditions for a shorter learning and adaptation time compared to dealing with this. Over time it should also be possible for the others to get more out of this work. These programs have not worked for a very long time. It is our impression that there has been and is going on in the direction of fulfilling the intentions behind when the Stortinget dealt with St.meld. No 31. We recommend that this work continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e771	Only a few comments in addition to what the rapporteur explained. Of course, we agree with much of what he has said, and the aim of the regional development programmes is to achieve a more effective regional and regional policy that is more committed both in the use of instruments and in relation to plans anchored in the challenges facing each region. When you spend 2.2 billion kroner, as you did in 2000, there's a lot of money, and when it doesn't work according to purpose, there's every reason to look at it. The National Audit Office’s study may have the weakness of examining only three counties — Nordland, Oppland and Rogaland. But of the results it shows, on the negative side, there were too general and ambiguous central management signals, and there was a lack of clarity as to what role the departments should play in the work compared to the existing planning systems that were at the state level. On the positive side, it has been found that the schemes have acted as an establishment of the meeting place and the discussion venue of the economic and employment actors in the counties. From our point of view, the conclusion is that the objectives have not been achieved, and I would also like to refer to St.meld. No 34 on regional and regional policy, as dealt with by the Stortinget in June last year, where, inter alia: it was established that four-year development programmes from 2004 onwards will be useful to ensure more long-term strategic work and more action-oriented programmes with clear performance requirements. We are committed to improving the scheme based on the intentions and ambitions behind regional development programmes, and we are therefore pleased that the Committee has been able to gather on the Workers' Party's proposal to ask the Government to come up with a separate case on the value of regional development programmes. I see no contrast between what the representative Holm said in his post, namely to get a review of the plan work, and what we are asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e784	The objectives of the regional development programmes include, inter alia: have been an effective district policy. Incentives should be given to industrial development in regions and districts, and simplification of planning processes and the provision of leadership for grant schemes. This sounds very funny and very positive, but the thing that's suspicious and regrettable is that the Riksrevision determines that the intentions you had with these programs have not been fulfilled at all. So there's very few of the goals that you initially had that have become a reality. What may be extra special is that the departments themselves, as shown in the report, do not actually regard these schemes as central means of achieving the objectives. Another thing that is also very special is that few of the regional actors give priority to these development programmes. What I think tells you is that you haven't been able to achieve the goals you've had with this. My conclusion, therefore, is that this is a totally misguided policy. We have therefore made a proposal in our remarks to wind up all State grants for such regional development programmes. However, one must not be misunderstood, one should not believe that the Progress Party does not agree that the public should facilitate economic development, because we are absolutely, we are very concerned about that matter. But we believe that priority is given to the tools that produce results. And then I'm going to be allowed to mention someone. These include: It is very important that municipalities themselves have an incentive to facilitate business development in their own municipalities. And the Progress Party has been a proponent of transferring company taxes to the municipalities. In this way, municipalities themselves will benefit from an incentive to pursue active business development in their municipality. Other conditions are tax policy in general, which needs to be organised in order to stimulate the start of new businesses and to enable business development and business activities to be carried out in rural areas as well. And then you have this with the public bureaucracy and the form field that you might see in particular within the planning and building law, which is mentioned in particular. We in the Progress Party are therefore concerned about not having public projects that are money-slurry and lead to bureaucracy, but have real measures to improve the business environment. We think that's the way to go about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e799	As is often the case in politics, ambitions are greater than results. It shows this report from the Riksrevision. Nevertheless, the committee got a clear impression that the work was not wasted at all, when we visited Troms in January this year. In meeting with the administration, and the particular business community, the Control and Constitutional Committee was given a clear signal that one saw an active county municipality as a partner in the development of industry. The NHO was particularly clear in this area. The Government Party is calling for concrete economic instruments to ensure that plans can be put into practice. We believe that municipalities and therefore regions should have a more direct economic interest in driving business development. In this context, we point to the possibility of transferring company taxes to the municipalities, which are also mentioned here. In relation to case No. 1 on the map for today will also be an important contribution. General improvement of general instruments in the case of industrial development will, of course, also have a positive effect. Infrastructural effort is also a contribution to address distance constraints and to connect municipalities and regions to larger regional units. The Christian People's Party believes that regional development programmes alone have limited value. However, together with tools of an economic nature, the county can become an important player in the development of economic activity at the time when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e810	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2107]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e826	Document No 3:5 contains the National Audit Office’s examination of the local employer’s checks on the collection of taxes. The Committee has also conducted an open hearing with those who wished to meet before the Committee. The unit of the hearing is printed in the Annex to the decision of the Committee. The Committee points out in its work that the Riksrevision study has revealed that the local checks carried out by the tax collectors do not have the frequency provided for in the objectives set and that the study has revealed further weaknesses in this work. The survey shows that the nationwide control coverage in 2000 meant that the average number of years between each time an employer could expect control was 30. The objective is significantly lower than the Tax Directorate’s objective, with a frequency of no more than 10 years – i.e. everyone should be checked every 10 years; it is 30 years. Of course, it will also be that you have a greater degree of control over the industries and businesses where you get signals that there may be something wrong, so you can't assume, if you've had a check, that it takes 30 years to the next time. That, of course, is reassuring. The study shows that in some counties there may be as long as up to 43 years in terms of averages for each time a check is carried out. In the Committee's view, this shows that the work on local monitoring of employers has a high potential for improvement and that significant measures need to be taken to increase the frequency of monitoring. During the examination, the Committee has divided into different fractions. A majority, all except the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that a detailed examination of the overall control activity must be carried out. As part of such a review, the control of employers by tax collection and the collection of taxes should be central, all the time a close link between these two activities. The Progress Party has its own specific comment, in which we in fact establish that we are in line with a public inquiry for some time back, NOU 2000: 22 on the division of tasks between state, region and municipality, where, after an overall assessment, it was recommended that the administrative responsibility for the tax collection, including the employer's control, should be transferred from the municipalities to the State. The Group of the Party of European Socialists agrees that this will make sense. Let's take up suggestions on that, no. 2 and 3, in the setting. There is no reason to expect local control through the chemical offices that municipalities will give particular priority to the activities and control of chemicals, since increased control activity will primarily benefit the State in the form of increased revenues. Had the state itself been responsible for this, one would be able to control it in a completely different way. We follow up the Task Distribution Committee, and it would be interesting if more people could also go in that direction and get an effective system with a more consistent and comprehensive tax rate. We therefore ask in proposal No. 3 The Government to explore the possibility of merging the tax collection offices, tax collection offices and county tax offices into a single unit. The growth of, inter alia: ICT and other technological things make it much more possible to do things without being on the spot geographically. This is a traditional business that was established very many decades ago. It should be time for rationalisation and modernisation, where we may gradually be able to both increase business and reduce the number of employees, so that we reduce the pressure in the economy that the Minister of Finance is otherwise so concerned. Here we have an opportunity through rationalization to release resources to other tasks. On this basis, I would like to address the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e843	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e846	Control, of course, is an important part of the activities of the tax authorities. The report of the National Audit Office, which we are now examining, shows that this control is less frequent than it should be. And worse still, it's sinking. There's every reason to look at this seriously. The focus is on municipal tax collection offices, and it seems that they have done too little work in this important part of the task. These tax collection offices in the municipalities had a decrease from 7,613 checks in 1995 to 6,219 in 2000 — a decrease of approximately. 18 pst. from an already low level which is well below the level recommended by the authorities. The Committee itself, the State State State Tax Offices, the State Equations Offices and the political environments all agree that this control should have a different frequency from that shown by this survey. The transfer of current tasks of the municipal tax collection offices to state tax authorities may immediately appear to be a way forward. And what is the reason why the Workers' Party does not go in for this immediately? Well, first of all, we believe that the Riksrevision report is not a sufficient basis for making such a decision. It points out in a qualified manner to certain weaknesses but is not an investigation into all the questions to be answered before a sufficient basis can be provided for the adoption of that type of decision, in our opinion. We don't know enough about the background of the numbers. A check in the overview is one check, and it's a good math. But what is really a control? We know a little bit about that. A check on the fish shop on the corner, which might take two hours – what do I know? – and a control of a group, which may take months, will both be recorded separately as one control. The control figures include only visits — when the company is visited. And you can ask yourself, could it be that much of today's control of today's technology is at the tax collectors' own office, which is not part of this overview of how much control is being exercised? And we also know too little about what it means to separate control and summons. What's the consequence of that? And then you could also ask, do we have reason to believe that if it is added to the state level, control will increase? Yeah, that's a good option. However, once again, it may seem that the control exercised by the state tax authorities — because they also have such controls — has the same downward trend as that of the municipal tax collectors’ offices. Yes, it sinks even more, from an even lower starting point. In 1995, County Tax Offices had 6,582 such controls around Norway, and in 2000 the number had fallen to 3,821. So this is going to be 42 pst. As a bracket for this: after the Riksrevision made its highly qualified report to us, the tax collection offices again had an increase in the number of checks in 2001 and are now on a higher figure than they did in 1998. We therefore believe that there is a need for a broader investigation before any decision can be made to transfer the task to a different level. We ask the Government to make the necessary assessments of the findings presented by the Riksrevision and possibly come back to the Storting with proposals for amendments. If that happens, the specialist committee concerned will deal with the matter in the usual way, and the Stortinget will have a case to deal with where all the questions involved are settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e857	It's a rather familiar saying something like this: when the hell wanted nothing to happen, he set up an investigation committee. I believe that the question here for treatment can be characterised as rather overly mature for conclusions – i.e. no more investigations. That is why, on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party, we have put forward in the committee a proposal which has been included in the vote on page 7, proposal No. 1, which is addressed, where we are asked by the Government to submit proposals for measures that can improve the performance of local tax collection, both in terms of employers’ control and calls for proposals. Otherwise, I want to say that I think one must be careful to look at the percentage of this case blindly. It's enough that I think it's important not to have too much focus on a percentage. I think the most important thing is that one controls the right control objects, and based on materiality and risk selects the right ones, more than staring blindly at a fixed percentage. In addition, I would like to point out that in the hearing the committee had, among other things, been. The Minister of Finance called and answered questions, and he pointed there, among others. the following: «The system of pre-filled declarations adopted in 2000 has further increased the importance of good local employer control, because the scheme is largely based on reported data from employers. It is very important that data relating to the country’s main tax base — salaries, pensions and employer’s taxes — are accurate and properly reported.’ This, of course, is a very important starting point. But let me also add that, in addition to this important point from the standpoint of the state, it is important from the perspective of taxpayers and from the point of view of the legal certainty of taxpayers that this is properly preserved, so that each taxpayer can feel confident that you are being looked at in the right way. The side of the case is also important that the Storting is concerned about. Otherwise, the situation is like this, I think, that if we are to succeed in achieving results in terms of simplification, modernisation and efficiency of the public sector, we need to look for areas where we can solve more tasks better and with fewer resources. This case has shown that there are opportunities to pick up an efficiency gain by reorganising this work. I'm not going to conclude with which model to choose, but I hope that the Storting can, if not for too long, make changes so that you can solve more tasks with fewer resources – in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e877	Martin Engeset has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e880	In the discussion about this case, there has been a lot of focus on the control frequency. It is both fair and fair in nature, for which it is clearly well below the recommendations of the Directorate of Taxation, according to the National Audit Office’s investigation. SV has joined the Committee's critical comments at this point. However, we do not draw the same conclusion as the Progress Party, that is. a full or partial transfer of tasks in this area from the municipalities to the State. On the other hand, we have agreed to encourage the Government to investigate the entire control activity and focus on both the employers' control of the tax collection and the tax collection work. Martin Engeset referred to Fanden and his procedure when he didn't want anything to happen. If I have understood that correctly, I guess it's SV with our procedure that then partly is involved and represents the Fan in this context. But then I want to make it clear that our goal is not that nothing should happen. At that point, I do not think it can be misunderstood that SV wants a fair and optimal tax collection. That's what's behind our position in this field. We have a pragmatic approach to this. It is efficiency in tax collection and justice itself that is important. Against this background, we are in agreement with the Workers' Party on the proposal to ask the Government to carry out a study of the total control activities of tax collectors and, where appropriate, to submit proposals for amendments. Like the representative, the Ombudsman, we believe that the study of the frequency of controls alone has too one-sided focus to give reason to accept a transfer of the task from the municipality to the state. Controls are a means, not a measure in itself. Many suggest that local knowledge and proximity to those to be controlled contribute to achieving this objective by other means than numerous local controls. For example, what is called official controls may well be appropriate. Advice and prevention activities will also reduce the need for control, and we believe this is best addressed when it is carried out under municipal authority. Intermunicipal changes have produced good results, and we believe that much can be achieved through further development of this. The National Audit Office has only examined the municipalities. When discussing the state takeover of tasks, questions should also be asked about how the state performs its part, i.e. the current state-level tasks. An ECON survey clearly shows that municipalities are generally better placed to collect ‘sine’ taxes than the country is with its own, i.e. investment tax and VAT. You could, for example: examine the situation with regard to VAT control. Here's a reason to assume that there's a lot to pick up. That this may be so was recently illustrated in a very extensive VAT evasion case on the west, where there were evasions in the order of several hundred million dollars. The County Tax Office had to endure strong criticism. The convicted holder must have shown that VAT control was less likely than a Lotto win. Now you have to be very careful to generalize from statements in an unusually simple matter. However, I would argue that you can turn this upside down and say that you would just as much like to assess the state's acquisition of the local employer's control should consider whether the municipalities should take over tasks that are currently in the hands of the State. In general, SV believes that tasks should go from state to local and not vice versa. It's a principle that we'll follow where there's no strong reason to speak for anything else. And we don't find such reasons here. But I would again stress that our approach to this is pragmatic. We are committed to ensuring optimal tax access and maximum justice. The answer to that lies in local arrangements, as we see it. The Riksrevision study shows that there is a clear potential for improvement. In total, however, SV believes that the municipalities are most effective in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e903	The so-called steady-state control of employers is only part of the public checks that taxes are paid in a timely manner. The quality of the tax collection in Norway can be summarised as being very good. Within less than a year from the end of the year of income, municipal collectors will have the power to collect above 99 pst. of cumulative tax requirements. I would like to show you the study carried out by ECON Centres for Economic Analysis in 1999. One reason why the result is not even higher is that the magnitude of the discretionary equation is monthly. This part of the tax will understand is much harder to collect than ordinary taxes on the basis of a proper self-notification. The Committee's visit to the Chamber of Commerce in Tromsø also revealed other tasks carried out by these etats. The State control, which is specifically addressed by the National Audit Office, is only one of at least three tasks carried out. As mentioned earlier today, office checks are also based on information submitted, which would give a pointer if something is not regulated. If so, a bell ringing and closer investigation will be initiated on the debtor. A third task that was explained by the Committee during this hearing is the course and information implemented by the tax administration. With approx. 20 years of experience as an employer in a small enterprise, I would say that the activity of price and information provided by the tax administration is very important, and it can be usefully expanded. We also received confirmation from the Minister of Finance during the hearing that one was very positive to it. Such action leads to knowledge of legislation and clarification of why laws and rules are as they are. The National Audit Office points out that intercommunal solutions lead to a better functioning of both the scope of control, the frequency of control and formal planning where one has implemented such a course. This should build on. The report also shows that this form of cooperation is in strong growth. The Government Party's proposal provides the Ministry with an opening to propose measures to improve procedures and interaction between the various actors in this department. Unlike the Progress Party, I see, for my part, no real reason to change organisationally an entity that has the power to demand more than 99 pst. taxes and charges. In fact, Norway is in this area of the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e923	I would like to join in the very moderate concept used by the rapporteur in referring to this matter, namely that this is a great potential for improvement. I would like to add to the reasoning of the rapporteur, both in the position and during the committee hearing where I was present, that the matter also has a different side than the precise control side, namely the issue of equal treatment of industries from the municipality to the municipality. The business side must be able to expect a national tax system to be applied equally whether it is located in municipalities A, B, C or D. Today this is not satisfactory. The representative from the Workers' Party also said that there is every reason to take this seriously. I find that there is a very broad majority in the Stortinget who believe that neither the invitation work nor the employer's control is being carried out satisfactorily today. However, the representative pointed to the need for further investigation. I think I should be able to follow up all four areas he pointed to, reasonably quickly through the department's monitoring and investigation work. He said, "What is control?" So, are there comparable control concepts here? Does control have to be local? I have to add that even in our data age I think that Internet control with an employer has a little less value than being present, with all respect for new technologies. The representative also pointed out that there is the same downward trend in State recovery activities. Of course, we're also going to compare here. That new numbers can show a certain increase at the chemistry offices, I don't think I will give decisive weight, as the long-term trends unfortunately point to something else. But it's usually that faced with a certain threat of reorganization, it tends to show up a certain potential for improvement. I don't ignore that it could be applicable here as well. We've seen it at many public institutions. I remember that when the Stortingen decided one year ago to spend NOK 1 billion on operating patients abroad, there suddenly became capacity in many of the county-owned hospitals. So it's possible that there's a corresponding reaction here. Compared to the call for state taxes, such as VAT and tax, with municipal taxes, I would point out that it is difficult to compare directly. Municipal fees are secured by legal pledges. It gives the invitation considerably greater force, to say the least. So here I think you should be careful with direct comparisons. I believe that I should be able to come back and give adequate answers to these questions raised by the representative of the Engretsen and more, in a reasonable time, if possible already in the revised national budget, so that all the parties of the Storting can have a broader decision-making basis. Finally, I would like to stress that there are already very effective coordinated control actions between various public agencies in relation to industries and industries where there is reason to believe that the element of the black economy is large. There are coordinated control actions involving cooperation between state agencies, police and local food establishments. These actions are rarely notified. It's not supposed to be. But we already have some experience with them, and they have a pretty good effect. These are control actions that are combined with significant information work. In other words, at the same time as controlling, information work is carried out on industries — to say it carefully — where economic operators are often very new in the industry or have a high rate of relocation from one AS to a new AS. If anyone knows what industry this is about, I don't have to elaborate on it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e943	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e947	As the Minister of Finance also acknowledges, the Riksrevision has produced a rather critical report. In the hearing, I asked the Minister of Finance a question that he has now had much more time to think through. I would therefore like to repeat the question here in the Chamber: ‘How long does he expect him to have to sit before he is sure that the Riksrevision does not produce a similar report once again as they have done many times before?’ In other words, how long does Per-Kristian Foss need as Minister of Finance before he is reasonably sure that he has made the changes that are necessary to ensure that we do not receive such a report again from the National Audit Office? That's the one question. The second question also has something to do with time. Since the Progress Party will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party, there is reasonable reason to assume that it will have a majority. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for measures that may improve the performance of local tax collection, both in terms of local tax collection. checks on employers and invitations to tender.’;» When can the Storting expect – so I expect this to be a decision in Stortinget, a decree to the Government – that the Government will make the proposals that this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e964	On the last question, I will refer to what I also said in the hearing, that I intend to present a reference to these issues in the revised national budget that passes the Council of States at the beginning of May. Then the Storting will have to assess how concrete the proposals will be. On the first question, how long do I have to sit, I would say that I can see no reason to limit it. However, if the question can be clarified as to whether I would guarantee that in the foreseeable future the Riksrevision will not provide critical reports on tax collection, on the invitation, on employer control, I would say that my respect for the Riksrevision is such that some such predictions I dare not come along with at all, for the Riksrevision should in this way be unpredictable – and at least government councils should not predict their possible criticism of the state's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e971	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2107]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e989	Through the National Audit Office’s examination of the Government’s implementation of the Nuclear Action Plan, the Committee, and through it also now the Stortinget, has gained insight into an important work that has been going on for many years and where results and achievement of the objective are now being further explored. The Committee makes its observations on pages 4 and 5. I will immediately submit that the consensus within the committee is probably considerably wider than exactly what the setting might suggest. It has its explanation in relation to the committee that I shall not go into more detail. But in sum, we agree on the main points of this work. So far, a total of 590 million has been allocated in this project. for the implementation of the action plan. I want to give the National Audit Office credit for actually seeing this the way they have done, so that we can learn from mistakes and shortcomings in this project. Now it is also true that through such a report, of course, the main focus is often on what is shaken, what is crooked, and what has not gone well. At the same time, I think there is reason to stress that this work, which was initiated many years ago, has contributed to Norway's leading and gradually bringing with it important other countries, such as the United States and EU countries, in a split layer to combat these problems. I think it's important not to forget that despite a number of negative points pointed out in the Riksrevision report, good results have also been achieved. The entire Committee is committed to pointing out the incompatible target conflict associated with Kola nuclear power plants, where one of the activities initiated by the Norwegian side has come into a situation where the risk of a serious accident related to this power plant has been significantly reduced. We're supposed to be happy about that. However, at the same time, because the safety of the power plant has been significantly improved, Russian authorities have come to the conclusion that the plant may be in operation longer than would otherwise have been the case. This is a target conflict that's not good, but I think it's hard to get out of it. It has been recognised, but after all, the most important thing was to achieve an improved safety situation related to the Kola power plant. I refer you to the Committee's comments. I assume that other members of the Committee will explain their comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1007	I am pleased that the representative says that there is greater consensus in the Committee on these matters than what can be seen in the vote. But then I have to ask some more questions. I would like to assume that yesterday the Danish Minister for the Environment, Mr Børge Brende, said, after talks with the British Minister for the Environment about Sellafield, that the UK's argument in this matter is not at all relevant. We are very pleased with the commitment of the Right to stop the pollution from the reprocessing plant in Sellafield, but we are amazed that the Right has a different attitude to the far worse reprocessing plant in Mayak. In this setting, the Right cannot support a comment that Norway will not be required to support any measures contributing to the further operation of the Mayak reprocessing plant in the future. So the right is very critical to the reprocessing plant in Sellafield, but will not be included in critical remarks about the Mayak reprocessing plant. And then I have to ask, is this hanging on to the handle?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1014	When, in my introduction, I cut into the explanation of why the seemingly greater disunity is than what it actually is, it goes, among other things. that, due to illness in the Committee, we received the SV's input so late during the Committee's consideration of this matter that it was in practice impossible for the other members of the Committee to decide on it at such short notice. When I say it that way, it's just to put the cards on the table and tell you that here I actually don't think there's any significant disagreement at all. I think there is a very broad consensus that even where it says the'majority', in most situations it could have been the 'committee'. I would also like to point out, when the representative points to the commitment of the Minister for the Environment, Mr Brende, to the Sellafield plant, that it is also in the committee's position to ask the Government to commit itself strongly to bringing Russia into line with the London Convention's ban on the dumping of nuclear falls at sea. It is part of the Committee's configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1021	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1024	Nuclear power plants and nuclear waste in North-West Russia are a major challenge both for Russia itself and for us, as a neighbour. It has led to extensive cooperation between our two countries to find solutions. However, there are very large and complex problems to be faced, and realistically, it will cost time and money to solve them satisfactorily. In earlier times, in the Soviet era, the handling of radioactive material and nuclear installations in this area has not had the level that is both desirable and necessary. This is not just a matter for Russia, it is important far beyond the borders of this country, and, as I said, it is not least relevant to the neighbouring country of Norway. And it has therefore been and is a broad political agreement that, in cooperation with the Russian authorities, we should engage in and contribute to improvements in these conditions in our neighbourhood in North-West Russia. Now it goes without saying that it must be Russia and the Russian authorities that are responsible for resolving the safety challenges posed by nuclear installations of different kinds, but also that the international environment requires this to be implemented in such a way that it does not represent a danger to humans and the environment. The Committee, as the rapporteur also pointed out, pointed out the incompatible conflict that is involved in contributing to the maintenance of older nuclear power plants – which ideally should have been phased out – where such a contribution improves operation and safety, while precisely such contributions lead to an extended service life at the plant. Overall, however, we have to be able to conclude that the Norwegian contribution and the Norwegian contribution have significantly improved the safety of the Kola nuclear power plant. The country's authorities have inter alia: with our involvement and our contributions implemented significant security measures. The follow-up and further monitoring of this will be important, and it is necessary for Russia’s own civil nuclear oversight, GAN, to have the working conditions and powers that this work requires. The Labour Party is in favour of a majority comment that could be misunderstood by us. The rapporteur has now said that we agree more than it looks. So I'm going to say that it's not certain that we're as united as it looks. It is stated in the note: ‘In the future, Norway must not support any measures contributing to the further operation of the Mayak reprocessing plant or support projects that could be used in a Russian infrastructure for the reception and storage of spent nuclear fuel from other countries.’ Now it is – and we can discuss this – that reprocessing is not something the Norwegian professional authorities or Norwegian authorities are particularly happy for, as it is right. But we're also facing a reality, how to actually do something in this area. And so this process of reprocessing is part of the basis of the agreement, it's part of what we've established for our cooperation with the Russian authorities. What is certain, in my opinion, is that Norway should not contribute in any way to structures that open up the reception and storage of nuclear waste from other countries, from other countries. That this is going to be such a reception center, we definitely shouldn't be participating in it in our opinion. Although the treatment of waste is the area with which we have the least reason to be satisfied, there is also some progress here. Storage of strontium batteries in Mayak is carried out today in a way that Norwegian professionals find very sound. It's true when it's claimed that Mayak is a military facility without international transparency. But it is also the case that the Russian authorities here have shown relatively high openness and goodwill towards Norway. Professionals both from the State Radiation Protection Agency and from Norway's high school of agriculture have visited the facility, and in a few days, a representative of the county of Finnmark will visit it. In view of this, it can be assessed whether the majority comment in which the Workers' Party is involved is somewhat tighter on the edge than what is really on the basis of it, realistically speaking. But this could happen in a hectic delivery meeting, and I take responsibility for the fact that the wording for our part did not become clearer until the setting went into print.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1042	The President will express the hope that, in some way, the Committee will agree on what you agree on and what you disagree about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1045	We always do!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1052	Kjell Engebretsen has moderated the Labour Party's support for the majority opinion. The Committee's attitude has given rise to some headlines that have been a bit violent. The newspaper, for example: wrote a few days ago that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Committee, and the somewhat dramatic picture was taken from Bellonas Thomas Nilsen, who believed that the Committee's position was closer to a full slaughter of a government project than anything else he had seen. There might be reason to say that completely so wrong it might not be. So what the newspaper said was not a full but a partial slaughter, which you have to read. It may well be as cruel with a partial slaughter as a full one, but now it's going to be. To be positive, there has been a common understanding that economic and political commitment to nuclear safety in North-West Russia has been and is important, and there is a common understanding that this is a very difficult area. Similarly, there has been a common understanding that it has been important to move with both the United States and EU countries and that this has succeeded in a long way. It is agreed that the safety situation at the Kola power plant is significantly better than just a few years ago. But that being said, there is reason to make clear criticisms about the key aspects of the work of the action plan and the individual projects. In order to keep us to the meta-consumption that I initially launched, I perceive that even the slaughtered person himself has been willing to admit that one would behave differently if one could start anew. There have been repeated criticisms of the work on nuclear safety. Thus, there must be a basis for claiming that it would have been possible to change the device on the more problematic parts of the action plan along the way. First of all, I would like to say that far on the way, one has closed its eyes to the conflict of objectives that several people have faced in relation to the Kola power plant, which has been visible all the way. Any improvement in safety could also contribute to the extension of the working time of the works, as long as the measures are not linked to a fixed closure date. Secondly, there appears to be reason to claim that a good part of the projects and a large part of the use of money have had no great positive effect, and that in some cases the effect has been the opposite. In our view, this applies to the project of building railway wagons for the transport of spent nuclear fuel to the Mayak reprocessing plant. I don't have to elaborate on it; others have been involved in the problems surrounding this facility. There has been a controversial project, and overall there is reason to claim that it would have been more appropriate to invest in temporary stocks in Kola, but Mayak is much further away from Norway. An overall committee points out that Norwegian and international experts will be able to inspect all projects in Norway for funding. In addition, SV would also stress that the responsibility for addressing the safety challenges related to nuclear safety in a country lies primarily with the country carrying out such activities. In view of this, it is of concern that many of the Norwegian-funded projects did not require Russia’s own civil nuclear oversight, GAN, to have the installations checked. In the SV's view, full control options for GAN – both before, during and after the project implementation – must be a contractual prerequisite for all projects. That is why we have also pointed out that one of the major challenges for improved nuclear safety will be to contribute to better working conditions and increased authority for Russia’s own civil nuclear oversight. We believe that it must be about both economic and political contributions to such a development. We have also underlined the role of voluntary organisations. This is a resource that can be exploited better. We point out that Norwegian and Russian non-governmental organisations must be given observer status in the Norwegian-Russian Commission for the Follow-up to the Action Plan. It's natural to mention Bellona, who in a rare way has been able to gain insight and competence in this very complicated area. It is a form of competence that should be exploited better in the work further. The nature protection association has also played an important role, not least through the project «Alternatives to nuclear power in North-West Russia». This with alternatives is also a field that, in SV’s view, has been too low in this work. Just to make better use of the existing renewable energy sources and to strengthen the commitment to the development of new renewable energy sources are among the main instruments we have in place to bring about the decommissioning of the Kola nuclear power plant. It's true, as Martin Engeset says, that the responsibility for not having a greater consensus on the comments lies with SV. I had to jump into this setting at a time when it was well inside the system. But I think it's very promising with the signals that you're very willing to look at this and take action in the direction we point to in our remark. We will come back with initiatives in the direction shown in what is the majority's comments from the Committee. The role of the Committee has been to highlight the weaknesses. And then we're going to go on in the next round. Based on what has been said so far, both by Kjell Engebretsen, although he moderated his connection somewhat, and by Martin Engeset, I have good faith that the Stortinget will come up with agreed and constructive solutions. I believe that we can agree on very important course changes in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1080	The next speaker is Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen. The President will note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs looks relatively unharmed!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1086	It can be confirmed. I feel in no way like a slaughter, even though the Dagblad statement should have provided a basis for that. There's two reasons for that. One is that this is a work that has been done by several governments, and it is a work that – when I look at the setting – has come out of it significantly better than the press coverage stated. That was also one of the points of the last speaker. Since I am relatively new in being responsible for this, I would like to say that the former governments have done some sort of pioneering work in many ways, because they started in Russia quite early. Over the 1990s, Russia was a very difficult country to work in. I think that the angle of incidence that was now used, that the task was to point out the weaknesses, that is, to learn from the whole thing that Martin Engeset said, and then move on later, is also what should now be the angle of incidence of this. It is important to draw experience and learn from what has happened, in order to make the next stages better. I'm definitely prepared to do that. The fact that I have recently been responsible for this area also means that I have been sitting on the other side of the table until recently. This makes me familiar with the debate that the Committee brings up on the dilemmas associated with the nuclear power plant. Because it is quite clear that those dilemmas are not something I now know as just responsible for the area, they are something I didn't know at all as a big-time representative when we said yes to this plan itself. We knew well that there were dilemmas, partly of an insoluble nature, but it was also the very strong feeling of uncertainty associated with these nuclear power plants that made it felt at the time that it was necessary to go into it in order to solve that uncertainty. And I have to say that it's going to take a lot of time to judge those assessments, because that uncertainty could have given us an environmental disaster of unprecedented dimensions, and we haven't. When it comes to the NGOs' involvement, I just want to mention that I have no problem with it. But I would believe – that is, I know – that the other party to the agreement does not think this is a good idea, and that is where it has cut itself. As far as Mayak is concerned, I just want to inform you that we don't have any construction projects there. We have contributed funds to the monitoring of radioactive contamination, but do not have any projects that contribute to the continued operation of this plant. I am aware of what has been discussed in the past, and what has been done in the past with transport, etc., but when you look at the future, I don't think this is going to be a big area. That is why I look forward to continuing to work on this area, but if there are any major exchange rate conversions, there is something else. I think we're going to learn from what's done, and see that here it's done a lot of important work. It can do even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1099	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1102	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we should learn from the work that has been done. If you read the opinion of the Committee, you will probably learn such a lesson that the course will be changed – at least to some extent. There are two points I would like to raise specifically, and which I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on. The first is that, on the Norwegian side, there has been no requirement for the Russian Civilian Nuclear Safety Authority, GAN, to carry out checks on all nuclear installations in Russia receiving Norwegian aid. I think it is absolutely essential for us to be able to contribute further. It is also a very useful contribution to the development of democracy in Russia as such. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he can confirm that he will continue to do so in the future. So to the Kola nuclear power station. Yeah, it was dilemmas. We had the choice between two bottoms, to help secure the nuclear power plant, and thus extend the life span, or to demand the nuclear power plant closed, and not contribute security measures. Perhaps today we think of thanks and the price for helping to secure it, because we have not experienced any major disaster. But we also helped to extend the lifetime, and then we might get that disaster in two years that we might have avoided if the work had been closed today. No one thinks we should stop helping with nuclear safety in Russia, but I hope that in the future we will demand the Russians to shut down the work and that what we are doing is help to shut it down and help us develop alternatives that will allow us to achieve more sustainable development in North-West Russia. Until now, there has been no willingness to make such demands. It is a prerequisite for us to move forward and ensure more sustainable development in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1113	Let me first answer the question about GAN. I'd like to take a closer look at it, but I just want to say that I hope we can run the question in such a way that it will be a give and take. I think it's important that we're in position to do something about the environmental issues up there. I'd like to look more at this question, but I guess we can't set this as a requirement for being engaged at all. I don't see it that way either, but as a desire to get it done. I'll think about it a little bit more. With regard to the issue of extended service life at the nuclear power plant, my point was nothing more than to refer to what the Storting itself knew was a prerequisite in the mid-1990s, because I was in on it. And the fact that the committee points out that this is a dilemma doesn't necessarily mean that at the time you gave a wrong answer. That's what was my point. I don't think there's any argument in the field that government or biging at that time really gave a wrong answer in that context. That it would be right to make strict demands, I fully agree. I have noticed that the SV's wording in this way is a tribute to the EU's negotiating arrangements and negotiating power. I really appreciate that. But I think it has to be seen in the eyes that the EU, in relation to the new candidate countries, is in a completely different negotiating situation than that we are in relation to the Russians, simply because, in relation to these candidate countries, there are questions about whether or not they should be allowed to join the EU. We probably don't have the same kind of negotiating position with the Russians, although it would be really nice to have had it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1122	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footage, see page 2108]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1138	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2108]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1154	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 2108]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1163	Then the Stortinget is ready to vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1170	During the debate, Mr Ryan has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposer has converted the proposal into a transmission proposal, which is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish its own nutrient development fund to help reverse the negative population development in these areas.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion of censure – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1515	During the debate, Mr Rød put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to liquidate all State grants to regional development programmes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1553	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government is asked to make the necessary amendments so that the administrative and financial responsibility for the local control of employers is transferred to the State.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to explore the possibility of merging the tax collection offices, the tax collection offices and the county tax offices of a single entity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1595	There will be a vote between the I and proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party, then over the second. The proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party reads: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for measures that may improve the performance of local tax collection, both in terms of local tax collection. checks on employers and invitations to tender.’;» The Progress Party has warned that they subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right and Christian People’s Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1603	The Group of the European People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21.ana.ud1694e1658	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 February 2002: ‘The Government asks the Police Commissioner in the South Varanger Police District notary in matters relating to marriages and the registration of partnerships, as well as in notarial cases in border-related matters.’
