ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e17	Sick leave for the representative of Ursula Evje is available from the Advance Party Group from 9 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Harald Espelund, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e35	Harald Espelund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e49	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e58	I am pleased that there is a broad majority supporting the role of the Bank of Norway in relation to the Stortinget and the Government and therefore reject the proposal of the representative, Siv Jensen, to give the Bank of Norway full independence. The monetary policy guidelines were laid down on 29 March 2001, and a broad majority in the United Kingdom took note of the new guidelines. A majority therefore agree that monetary policy should aim at stability in the value of the Norwegian krona nationally and internationally, while supporting fiscal policy by contributing to stabilising the development of production and employment. The operational monetary policy objective shall be an annual growth in consumer prices which over time is close to 2.5 pst. This conversion has given Norway’s Bank greater responsibility for stabilising economic development. Int. S. No 229 for 2000–2001 on economic policy, which was discussed last year, some parties argued that the Government should go through the Norwegian Bank Act, among others. to assess the need for a change in the position of the central bank. This was not supported by the majority. So there has not been a majority in the past to change the position of the Bank of Norway. The rejection of the Siv Jensen proposal shows that a broad majority of the Grand Duchy places great emphasis on the long-term and predictability of monetary policy and does not want major and unexpected changes. This is important for monetary policy to have the necessary confidence both in financial markets and in society. In order to achieve stable economic development, a stable exchange rate and low inflation, successful interaction between the various economic policies is necessary. This means that stability and predictability in monetary policy are also important for fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e75	It is an interesting and important issue The Progress Party is moving in the proposal. It is desirable that the Storting should regularly discuss monetary policy, and in this context the central bank's position is also a central issue. However, it is not more than one year since Stortinget discussed the new monetary policy guidelines, nor was it the case that the majority for a change in the role of the Bank of Norway, as proposed by the Progress Party. I am pleased to be able to establish that there is a broad majority behind the monetary policy guidelines; it is important for stability and predictability. The cooperation parties are opposed to the proposal of the Progress Party, but we point in the position to three aspects. Firstly, it is necessary to look at some aspects of the law relating to the position of the Bank of Norway. Secondly, we are opening up an assessment of the practice of appointing the Governing Board. And thirdly, we are asking for a review of the central bank's position in a country that is natural to compare with. I am pleased that the Progress Party has given its subsidiary support to these three points, and that, therefore, it is a majority in the UK that supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e88	Based on the debate and the attitude of the Committee on Budgets, there may seem to be a great deal of disagreement about the main features of how Norwegian monetary policy is structured. It does – as far as I can understand – not. That was a broad consensus when, in March 2001, we passed monetary policy on to a so-called inflation target. It supported the Progress Party, and it should only be lacking, as we have made proposals on a number of occasions in the past – without having a majority in favour of it. So we did it, and monetary policy was changed. What this proposal is about has nothing to do with trying to create uncertainty or unforeseeableness about how Norwegian monetary policy should be. On the contrary, it is a question of further clarifying Norway’s position in the economic interaction that is taking place in Norway. If you go to a number of other countries, it is not uncommon to find a model similar to the one I have mentioned in this Document No. The 8th proposal. The finance committee was recently in London and visited the Bank of England, which has an entirely independent central bank, which works very well, and which is just part of the interaction of the British economy. I don't think that there will be any significant good argument in terms of objecting to the intentions of this proposal, which the majority of the committee has therefore rejected. I note that none of the parties wanted to discuss the intention of what is part of the proposal, namely the role distribution between the Ministry of Finance, the Stortinget and the Bank of Norway. Another part of the proposal concerns the appointment practices of the Governing Board of the Bank of Norway. Today, the Governing Council is appointed politically. This Document No The 8 proposal is about professionalising this, so that you might get a somewhat better complex professional environment, which, on a different basis than the policy, assesses what is good and right for the Norwegian economy. It has been claimed several times that it is not politically popular to be responsible for the interest-setting in Norwegian society. There will always be a struggle to get the credit for a decline in interest rates, but no one wants to have it – let's say – the dubious honor of an increase in interest rates. It is therefore important to add this to the central bank, which does not need to become popular with voters every four years. It is true, as the representative Sanner says, that the Progress Party subsidiaryly supports the intention in the comments of the government parties. This is because, at least, the comments go some way towards discussing the issue addressed in Document No. The 8th proposal. And I'm glad, because that could mean that the government parties – and perhaps also the government – will look at the future fate of Norway's Bank. However, in a somewhat unfortunate opinion not very many months ago, the Minister of Finance raised some doubts about this relationship – an opinion that caused a certain storm. It was correctly returned by the Minister of Finance himself a few days later. But it shows that the market out there perceives that the link between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway is close, and that – when it comes to it – you do not always know who actually push the button. And that doubt should not be a problem for the Storting to discuss and possibly choose to remove, so that once and for all, it can be established that the Bank of Norway should be independent and should deal with it at all times in the monetary policy in force, determined by this Chamber. I agree with that. This is an issue that is not suitable for a comprehensive and repeated debate, precisely to ensure stability and predictability. However, it has not been said that the Storting should be excluded from assessing the appropriateness of the organisation of work. In this context, the letter from the Minister of Finance reads that at some point in the current year some aspects will be assessed, but that there is something the Minister of Finance wants to come back to. To that I would like to say that one can now gradually trace an attack of government arrogance, in the sense that one almost says that the Stortinget should not think so much, as it should be attached to the Government, and that the Government will, when it comes. I think that's not good for a government that's so new, and that only a few months ago itself was very interested in getting a faster progress in politics. Finally, I would like to include the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e114	Siv Jensen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e117	SV's starting point is slightly different from the Progress Party. Let me start with the following a little paradoxical – I think – situation: the party of progress has now spent a lot of time outsmarting the country's economists because they have not understood the party's ingenious policy. At the same time, trade union economists want to enter the Norwegian Bank's main board of directors, obviously in a belief that they will have better sense and understanding than the elected — or politically appointed — who are currently sitting there. It is then up to the Progress Party to explain why you should have economists into this board, if the economists at all have not understood anything of economics. Now leave it. We think it makes sense that the appointment takes place as it does, namely that you put together Norway's Bank's main board of what we can call a layman's relationship, that is. by representatives with political or economic ballast, who also have some knowledge of society in common, which is often lacking by professionals. We believe it is right that fiscal and monetary policies move in the same direction. We believe that the best starting point will be what you have today, that the Ministry of Finance has the primary responsibility both for monetary policy and for financial policy in Norway. What we saw, through what happened last year, was that this bond became less clear. It has not yet gone as far as the Progress Party wants, as has been done in many European central banks, in particular the European Central Bank, that is, the bank linked to the euro area. What is the problem of this type of organisation is a significant democratic deficit, namely the appointment of a central bank board which is not accountable to any parliament, not to the European Parliament or to ours in relation to the Norwegian government. That means that a central bank can at any time review the elected decisions that have been made. In a given situation, with high unemployment rates based on Norwegian conditions, the government may feel that it is right to spend more money to stimulate activity. This the central bank might think is wrong. Thus, interest rate policy can be tightened up, thus offsetting what has been the opinion of the Storting and the Government. This is a significant democratic problem. We see this problem very much in the EU. For many decades, very many EU countries have had very high unemployment rates. A number of politicians — almost all European politicians — have been concerned about unemployment. An innumerable number of reports have been prepared. A wide range of proposals have been drawn up on how to tackle unemployment. The reason why this is not possible is simply as simple as the central bank is holding a completely different weapon than what the elected representatives are holding. In this way, politicians are generally only able to produce polite phrases, and you are not able to bring about a life of unemployment, as you could if you chose a more expansive economic policy. This democratic problem will be solved by the decoupling of the central bank. The system we all have in Norway -- we weren't particularly excited about the change of monetary policy that happened a year ago -- we accept that, but a further release of the central bank will be democratically very unfortunate and give the governor and his board, or her board, if it's a woman, the opportunity to be an explicit overlooker for elected decisions, which more than we in SV should think is a democratic problem. Nevertheless, I must say that the trend or trend in the monetary policy debate in Europe is unfortunately moving in the direction that the Progress Party points to. I record that the Minister of Finance says that he will come back with various discussions around some of these questions. I note that the government parties also sign this out. And even if you don't go as far as the Progress Party wants today, I'm afraid this government will take steps in such a direction during its lifetime. I think the government at its payroll chamber has thought in this direction. That you don't want to let the Progress Party gain from this, I think it's also quite obvious, so you reject it in this game. But it would have been interesting to know what changes one sees the central bank to make, as it says in the letter from the finance minister, and which is also mentioned in the comments of the government parties. It's hard to imagine having to reverse what happened last year. If this isn't going to be reversed, you should probably go in one direction, and it's hard to imagine that this direction is very different from that of the Progress Party. I hope I'm wrong. What can, of course, be pleased with the fact that the Progress Party has now promoted this proposal is that the Government cannot promote it for a while, because that means that the Progress Party will then have a win. I hope that the proposals of the Progress Party have contributed to the fact that the Minister of Finance and his Government are far more reserved after this, and that we may thus escape what I am otherwise afraid that we had received.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e140	It is good that there is still a broad consensus on the role of the Bank of Norway and the division of roles vis-à-vis political authorities, and it should not be discussed as often as the Progress Party wishes. It would be unfortunate if we got an open fight in Stortingen on these questions. Any changes made to the Bank of Norway should be subject to thorough government assessments and not to any bench proposals in the Stortinget. The government signals in this case that there will be a need to assess the details of current legislation. I would then like to signal on behalf of the Central Party that we are sceptical about reducing today's political control of Norway Bank, and hope that no proposals will be made on this. I don't want to wonder what situations would arise in order for a political intervention to be desirable or necessary, but I believe that the possibilities for such an intervention must exist. We don't have to in this area copy other countries' systems when what we have ourselves works well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e149	It is an interesting and important issue for the Progress Party to address in its proposal and to which the Committee responds in a no less interesting position. However, the question of central bank legislation is one that I think is best suited to thorough investigations and not too frequent changes. It is a citizen of some degree of political support and stability. In fact, this is the case in most countries — not to say in all countries — and there is a tradition that this government is also planning to follow up. New monetary policy guidelines were laid down in March last year, cf. Regulation on monetary policy of 29 March 2001. Its name is, among other things,\t\t You can change the «The operational monetary policy objective shall be an annual growth in consumer prices which over time is close to 2,5 pst.» There was broad support in the UK for the new guidelines, and today there seems to be great confidence in monetary policy, both among market players, in the professional community and in the opinion of others. Monetary policy guidelines are largely in line with what is happening internationally. Many countries, including Sweden and the United Kingdom, and the EMU area introduced monetary policy with inflation targets in the 1990s. International central bank legislation differs somewhat from one country to another in relation to the matters covered by Document No. The 8th proposal. In this case, we will also review international relations with Stortinget. I believe that I can already say that Norwegian central bank legislation and practices – both of which are important – will clearly demonstrate that the Bank of Norway is among the more independent central banks internationally, at least in comparable systems. It is not appropriate to change the monetary policy regulation. In my opinion, the existing law and regulation of the Bank of Norway provides an appropriate framework for the position of the Bank of Norway. I am therefore pleased that the Committee does not accept the substantial amendments tabled in Document No. 8:52, both in the interests of their content and the need for investigation and clarification of such proposals. It was the last speaker, the representative, Lund, among others. was concerned with this, which is a long practice, that this type of proposal must be thoroughly examined by the government at all times. Money and the credit regulation and currency laws no longer form an active part of economic policy instruments. A proposal for legal clearance in the provisions of the relevant laws has been consulted, in fact as far back as 1996. The background to the consultation proposal was that many of the provisions of the abovementioned legislation are no longer considered necessary or appropriate. They're simply superfluous. The remaining provisions were proposed in the Central Bank Act at the latest revision. I will follow up on the work of the Money and Credit Regulation Act, the Currency Act and the Central Bank Act and propose the necessary cleanups and changes with a view to providing the Storting with such a proposal on the table during the current year. The question of the position of the Governing Board has been raised by several speakers. I would like to say that what is the assumption and long practice of the Central Bank Act in Norway is that the Governing Board consists of seven members, two of whom are the Governor of the Central Bank and the Vice-Central Bank Governor, both appointed by the Government, five are members appointed on a proposal from the parties of the Grand Duchy on a proportional basis. What assessments the different parties place on when they choose people, I find it difficult to make some thorough evaluation of, except that I find that we now have a composition of the board that represents both significant professional economic insight and social understanding. Both parts are subject to the requirement of professionalism and professionalism. Expressions like 'they're just political', I'm essentially going to take a little distance from, because it's not a comprehensive concept. There is no contradiction between being proposed by a political party and having significant professional qualifications, including: to sit on a central bank board. It was the chairman of the committee who said that she began to understand a certain government arrogance because we asked for the permission to ask questions before we proposed to amend the central bank law. I hope there's some understanding that it's with such a thoroughness that we'll at least approach these questions. But of course it is the Storting that ultimately decides also here, and we will of course follow up what the Storting asks for in this setting as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e176	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e179	I think that several of the posts that have been held in the Chamber now confirm the uncertainty that we want to remove through this proposal, namely, that several of the representatives of the magistrates who have spoken emphasise that monetary policy is in reality controlled politically through the system that now exists. I noticed that the finance minister at all did not comment on that relationship. At least on previous occasions, he has expressed himself in the media and was very clear about how this role allocation should be, and that the Ministry of Finance does not want to interfere with the judgements and decisions taken by the Bank of Norway. But it's obvious that the Storting is of a different opinion. It can help increase the uncertainty about this issue, and I actually think that the Minister of Finance should comment on it a little more. Øystein Djupedal believed that a further change would contribute to a so-called democratic deficit, because we would then have a central bank that was not responsible to the Stortinget. But with all due respect, it's not right, because you choose to have a so-called independent central bank, it's still going to be the central bank's obligation to report to the Stortinge x number of times a year. It's up to the Storting to decide. In addition, it is also necessary to have the right to replace members of the Governing Council either through the Grand Duchy or the Government if they do not fulfil their obligations, if they do not comply with the monetary policy guidelines adopted by the Grand Duchy. It is also common in other countries that have such an independent model, such as England. There is a need for the central bank to be able to accommodate the British Parliament, for example. through regular meetings with the Finance Committee in England, which thus sits and has a form of grilling of the Governing Council at regular intervals. It would be quite possible to implement a similar system here without any democratic deficit. Then Djupedal got into a discussion that this would be a problem, because if the central bank interfered with the political priorities, that is, if the capital spent too much money, the central bank would neutralize it by doing something about the interest rate. Yes, but today it can – and today the central bank does. That is a major part of economic policy. Just look at what's going on around the payroll. We are constantly facing threats of potential interest rate rises if wage making becomes too expansive, and it is constantly being used away that the central bank will act like a so-called rice behind the mirror, if you do not pursue an economic policy that will be responsible for inflation. I cannot therefore understand that the claims from Øystein Djupedal hold water, I think they are actually crazy. I would at least ask the Minister of Finance to come up to the pulpit and say something more about political governance, because there I believe it has gradually become more uncertain through this debate, and I think it deserves more attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e191	In respect of the Storting, I will answer what was asked, but I do not experience the debate in the same way. I do not experience the debate as having created uncertainty about the role of the Bank of Norway. On the contrary, I consider the position and debate to be clarifying, that they want to base themselves on the current system, but are open to the Government being allowed to submit any proposals for changes if they are considered necessary. I received today the Norwegian Bank's Annual Report for 2001. It will be submitted to the Stortinget as usual in the Autumn Credit Statement. At that time, Stortinget has an opportunity to discuss the views and interpretation of the monetary policy guidelines used by the Bank of Norway. Of course, whether the Storting wants to hold consultations with the Ministry of Finance, with the Minister of Finance or with the Governor of the Central Bank, is entirely up to the Stortinget. I have been present at such hearings in the past, and they have been interesting under changing regimes. That's of course, as I said, up to Stortinget how to treat it. As regards the issue of interest rate fixing and the instruments available to the Bank of Norway, this has been addressed by the Stortinget. I quoted the regulations and the timing of these in Stortinget. It is the Stortinget that has laid down the regulation within which the Bank of Norway is to operate. In this sense, it is democratic, in the sense that it has its basis in the Storing. I would say that in addition, it is a strength that it is actually proposed and maintained by changing governments. Thus, both central bank legislation, post-mortgage practices and monetary policy, as laid down by the new regulations, have a significant degree of consensus attached to them. I also pointed out that these regulations on a European and international scale are quite similar to those in most other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e200	The clarification that the Minister of Finance gave of what he intended to get back to Stortinget, I found satisfactory. If this is a cleanup of paragraphs that are not active, and if this is a cleanup more to see how this law actually is, I think this is completely in place. I also believe that the Minister of Finance has not intended to come back to the Stortinget with proposals in the direction proposed by the representative Siv Jensen for the Stortinget. I must also say that I am satisfied. I have a few comments for the representative Jensen, who is unable to see that this is a democratic deficit. She uses the English central bank as an example. Now the English central bank’s legislation is somewhat different from the European Central Bank’s legislation, including its practices. The Financial Committee has been in London on two occasions and has looked at how the Bank's legislation is being practised, and it is being practised in full transparency. There are, among other things: also full reference to the views of the various representatives of the Governing Council, and all dissidents are immediately presented. If you want to create – let's say – uncertainty about monetary policy in Norway, I have to say that the system you have chosen in England is completely open and, in fact, practical if you want to. However, there is a political commitment that is not in the European Central Bank. What's happening is not the way Siv Jensen presents it. It is true that when the European Council appoints the Governor, he is – as far as I remember – for six or seven years. The Governing Board of the Central Bank is also appointed, but at the request of the various Member States. The Finnish representative is Sirkka Hämäläinen – how it is possible to sit in a central bank and called Sirkka – I have always wondered, but she is called – and she is also sitting there for a period of six or seven years. This means that the person is not interchangeable. Thus, the national Parliament or the national government does not at all have the opportunity to instruct or dismiss him. That means that this central bank – and that’s the whole idea of an independent central bank – in all its sections and compositions is independent of the political governments. I'm against this system. This implies a significant democratic deficit, and I cannot, like the representative Jensen, get the term ‘political governance’ to sound bad. On the contrary, I must say that I think the term ‘political governance’ is a honorary word. The fact that you want to get rid of it, for example. unemployment and the use of both fiscal and monetary policies to put in place instruments to stimulate activity, I believe, are positive. This has not been achieved by the European continent, simply because the various instruments work against each other and also neutralising, and therefore there is no instrument available to us. I think that political governance of both monetary and financial policies is wise, and I think that in a given situation, the Storting should have the opportunity to use these instruments. This means that it is possible for the Minister of Finance – with today’s legislation – to tell the Governor that he disagrees. There will then be a letter to the Stortinget, but after today's legislation there is an opportunity to review the central bank. This SV seems to be positive, but of course it should not be misused, nor is it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e224	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e233	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eli Sollied Överaas on behalf of the Centre Party and the Progress Party proposals No. 2-6, by Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress Proposal No. 1, from the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal by the proposer and will therefore be amended so that the introduction reads ‘The Government is called upon to do so’, etc. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is invited to submit to the Storting a proposal for the amendment of the target use law as soon as possible so that the former government body, which is set free and organised as its own legal entity, is subject to the target use rules.’ With this amendment, the President will propose that the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left be forwarded to the Government without a vote of intent. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Progress Party, then be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government not to establish another control body [[Language consulting service]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to take into account that no action is taken to increase the scope of a target form by means of legal regulation and to seek to increase the scope and scope of the applicable target law.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the use of natural target forms by civil servants of State bodies. Enquiry to a post in a bookcase can be answered in a new language if it is the official's target form and vice versa.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that State-owned companies that have changed their form of operation, preferably to limited liability companies, shall be exempt from regulations and regulations which include State bodies in the target law.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Grand Government to bring the case before the Grand Duchy for a revision of the target law to be consistent with the statistical material set out in the Storing Communication, so that the actual application of the target form in relation to the proportion of the Norwegian population is taken into account for the purposes and implementation of the Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e301	During the debate Ola T. Lånke has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government determines the size of the Governing Board. It is assumed that the Government will draw up the necessary regulations in line with the decision of the Storting.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e333	Does anyone agree to have pressed the wrong button or fail to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e336	I didn't push.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e341	Then the president will be okay and take this vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e356	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Per Erik Monsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in its 2003 draft government budget, to include the NRK in the VAT system at zero rates for licence revenue and with a corresponding reduction in the licence fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e380	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Centre Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to incorporate into the 2003 draft State budget either a VAT refund scheme for NRK’s activities which is not currently covered by the VAT system or to include NRK in the VAT system in a way that has the same effect on the NRK’s economy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e423	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 2-4, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size of the fuel can be expected to be as uniform as possible throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the establishment of a self-financing freight balancing fund leading to the full balancing of freight costs for petrol and automotive diesel.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that oil companies eventually deliver fuel at the same price to all their dealers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e457	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for a self-financing freight balancing fund that would fully reconcile freight costs for petrol and automotive diesel.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e486	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Karl-Anton Swensen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party Proposal No. 2, from the Centre Party and the Coast Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify the value added tax issue for municipal ports in the context of the revised budget for 2002 or at the latest in the context of the 2003 government budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e508	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the VAT law should cover port activities.’ The Central Party and the Coastal Party have announced subsidized aid here. Is that right? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-04-09-2.ana.ud959e539	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law of 24 May 1985 No. 28 on the Bank of Norway and the monetary system so as to give the Bank a measure of price stability, the Bank is given full freedom to use monetary policy instruments, the reference to the «economic policy guidelines established by the State authorities» is deleted, the Bank is imposed an annual or half-yearly reporting obligation on the Stortinget, the Government is deprived of the right to take decisions on the Bank’s activities, references to the international value of the crown, price arrangements and price rental are removed and the disclosure obligation is removed. It is recognised by law that members of the Governing Council must have a broad and sound understanding of socio-economic issues and be independent of party-political and economic special interests.’.» An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote.
