ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e98	The representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Julie Christiansen, Bjørn Jacobsen, Haakon Blankenborg, Thore A. Nistad, Trond Giske and May Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From 14 May to 16 May to take part in meetings between the Bureau of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Party's Group for the leave of the representative Berit Brørby. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted2. The representative of the goods, Reidun Gravdahl, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e140	Reidun Gravdahl is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e146	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e151	I suggest Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e156	Anne Berit Andersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week. The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e161	I will, on behalf of the representative Ola D. Glötvold and myself, make proposals for a better support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e166	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e180	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2709]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e194	Information technology plays an increasingly important role in economic growth and value creation and in social development in general. But evolution doesn't go by itself. This recognition has taken many industrialised countries inwards, and IT has been elevated high on the political agenda. Within the Lisbon Strategy and the eEurope Action Plan, the EU aims to become the most dynamic, competitive and sustainable knowledge economy in the world by 2010. The development and application of information technology is a key instrument in achieving this. Norway also wants to take advantage of the opportunities offered by IT for increased prosperity, competitiveness and value creation. And Norway has the best conditions to be at the forefront of this development. Norway is one of the world’s leading countries in terms of PC, Internet and mobile phone prevalence. The entire 62 pst. by the population are regular Internet users. Almost 70 pst. Internet access is now available, and a total of 1.2 million Nordics are Internet banking customers. The older part of the population has traditionally been behind, but now it turns out that they too use the network more and more. Many enterprises are well advanced in the use of IT for better, more efficient and new services. Norwegian research communities have gained international recognition for epoch-making innovations through the renowned Turing Prize this year – the Nobel Prize of the IT World – for Professors Ole-Johan Dahl and Kristen Nygaard at the University of Oslo. In addition to our high level of prosperity and general education, Norway has a very good starting point for meeting the challenges of the IT and knowledge society. However, in several areas it appears that Norway is not well off. It concerns the ability to take advantage of technology, exploit its potential and take socio-economic benefits. With regard to the use of IT in business, we are at an intermediate level in the European context, and developments are slower in Norway than in the other Nordic countries. For example, 12 pst. revenues generated by all enterprises in Sweden and Denmark in 2000 from trading via the Internet. In Norway it's just 8 pst. by undertakings with similar income. Norway is also low in technology-related education. This could be a disadvantage given the specific challenge of the digital society: Workplaces and wealth are created through continuous innovation and innovation. The IT revolution is not only about technology but also about profound societal and economic changes. Instead of focusing unilaterally on technology, IT policy shall be justified on the basis of how new technologies can generate value, for individuals, for businesses, for organisations and for society as a whole. This is why the challenge of IT policy is to ensure that our objectives in key societal areas are met – whether it is better health care, a better school or the development of a knowledge-based business. Later today, I am presenting eNorway 2005, a plan that describes the objectives and overall strategy of the Government's IT policy up to 2005. Through the eNorway work, the Government will pursue an offensive IT policy that addresses key societal challenges and raise awareness of IT policy issues. The government has three overall objectives for IT policy. The first is value creation in business. The development and use of information technologies shall contribute to value creation through increased innovation and competitiveness in Norwegian business. Use of IT can reduce distance disadvantages and allow business to compete regardless of distance from markets. It may also contribute to more efficient production processes and changes in established value chains. However, if the gains and opportunities are to be realised, significant investments in business knowledge and organisational development are required. The second overall objective is efficiency and quality in the public sector. Information technologies shall be used to streamline the public sector and provide new and better services to users. Our unique position in the use of the PC and the Internet suggests that society, businesses and individuals have the prerequisites for, and will expect, good and adapted public electronic services. However, it is not obvious that investments in IT contribute positively without further delay. This requires, inter alia: organisational changes, motivation and knowledge among managers and employees. There is a need for a concerted and targeted effort in several areas. The third relationship is participation and identity. All should be able to exploit the opportunities of information technology, and IT should contribute to the preservation and further development of our cultural heritage, identity and our languages. IT has given us a diverse and easily accessible range of entertainment, news sources, literature, education and much more. Access to public information has probably never been better. In various ways, the Internet has become an integrated tool in most people's lives. At the same time, this could mean that the consequences of not having access will be great, and it will be important to ensure that everyone is given the opportunity to use electronic services for a better and simpler life. The authorities shall not govern the development in detail, but shall facilitate and promote the use of information technology in all parts of society. At the same time, this should not be at the expense of fundamental principles such as freedom of expression, consumer protection, privacy and children and the rights of young people. In its IT policy, the government will pay particular attention to the importance of exploiting the interaction between content, infrastructure and competences. The Government has chosen to focus its efforts on the overall objectives of IT policy on five main areas: good framework conditions for eNorway availability and security competence for change-attractive content modern public sector The authorities shall create good framework conditions for eNorway through appropriate legislation, good financial arrangements and the organisation of increased innovation and research in the field of IT. As part of this, we need to identify barriers to electronic reporting and the exchange of personal data between public authorities. Where appropriate, legislation shall be reviewed. It shall be open to business to provide personalised services based on the informed consent of the consumer to the use of personal data. The government will not weaken privacy, but does not want regulation to prevent the development of offers from public and private service providers. In addition, the Government is reviewing the instrument to see whether it is effective and tailored to business needs. Both new and existing instruments will be considered. In the run-up to research, IT shall be a high priority and the results shall be commercialised as far as possible. IT research is an area where it is often a short distance from basic research to commercial exploitation. In this way, the Government has great expectations for the Simula Center, which was recently opened at Fornebu. The purpose of the Centre is to conduct basic research at a high international level and to contribute to innovation and innovation in business. Another important prerequisite is that information systems, services and networks become secure and accessible. The Government will contribute to this and at the same time be a driver for the use of broadband, electronic payment solutions and infrastructure for safe communications. As more and more of our interactions take place electronically, security and access requirements are becoming increasingly important. Increased use of IT makes both individual enterprises and society as a whole more vulnerable. This is detailed in St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, on social security, which has recently been presented, proposing a number of measures related to increased IT security As part of the security work and in line with St.meld. No 17 I have recently established a Information Protection Centre, as a three-year trial project. During the trial period, the centre will be located at SINTEF in Trondheim. The purpose is for the Centre to be in a long-term position to be responsible for national coordination of incident reporting, alerting, analysis and exchange of experience in relation to threats to key IT systems. The effective and safe use of electronic communications both in business and in everyday life requires, in many cases, that paper-based written signatures be replaced by electronic signatures. Electronic signature involves, inter alia: the assurance that documents are not unlawfully altered, that the consignor is the person whom he or she purports to be and the person who really is behind the document. In order to make full use of the possibilities and trigger applications on a large scale, the Government has set the objective of facilitating the general use of standard electronic signatures by the end of 2005. I believe that a greater commitment to stable and secure electronic signatures is necessary to create confidence in electronic transactions, not least that is an important prerequisite for triggering efficiency gains and new applications, including broadband services. Competence is a prerequisite for exploiting the potential of information technology and for reaping potential benefits. At the same time, the skills requirements we face are higher today than a few decades ago. Libraries and schools have an important role to play in providing both IT access and training. We need competence at all levels, from broad user competence in all parts of the population to peak competence, perhaps especially in the field of real-life and technology. The government attaches great importance to accessing IT skills to the labour market. In cooperation with industry, the Government will review the educational capacity and quality of the IT profession at Norwegian universities and universities. IT can improve the quality of teaching and provide a better-adapted learning situation for individuals. Over a long period of time, expectations about the exploitation of IT in education have been built up through significant investments both in municipalities and from the state. It is now time to make every effort to make more committed use of these investments and opportunities. To meet this challenge, the Government will: invest considerable resources in the development of digital learning materials to provide a broadband gap in Norway to create a national educational portal, where an important task is to stimulate more education in all parts of the population and to contribute to increased quality in education and training systems for 40,000 teachers to receive training in the field of education and training in IT from the autumn of 2002; In addition, the Government will contribute to increasing access to attractive electronic content organised for Norwegian conditions. Public electronic content should be made more accessible to both private and professional users, and the public has a responsibility to digitise and make available our common cultural heritage. Through a targeted and conscious use of IT, we will create a modern public sector that is both more cost-effective and provides new and better services. The electronic market place, a public sector procurement portal, shall be operational from June this year. The marketplace is expected to contribute to the reduction of public procurement costs and to the efficiency of public procedures. At the same time, the market place will inspire private actors to streamline their processes and provide new opportunities for private actors. The government will make Norway easier. Therefore, public reporting should be substantially simplified and all public departments should be able to receive electronic reporting from business by the end of 2004. It shall include, inter alia: focus on solutions that can be integrated into the company's own IT systems. Public administration shall be tailored to the needs of customers. The electronic declaration is a good example of good use of IT. The response from the audience has been good. Nearly 524 000 Norwegians delivered their tax returns over the Internet this year, and there are 129 000 more than last year, an increase of over 30 pst. But now we have to move from the many good single examples and pilot projects to reap larger-scale profits. Therefore, the public interest in providing customers with the services they expect, where the objective should be a simpler and easier everyday life. The Government is continuing the implementation of the IT Action Plan ‘Si@’, which will contribute to electronic interaction in the social and health sectors. Priority will be given to projects contributing to the transition from the pilot phase to routine applications. In this presentation, I want to look into the Government's broadband and electronic content policy. Both areas are closely linked. Both areas are in many ways prerequisites for us to continue to have ambitions to be among the leading IT nations internationally and to meet the challenges we face nationally. I also refer to Document No. 8-proposals by Mr Arnstad and Mr Enoksen for the presentation by Mr Stortinget of a separate case on broadband policy. Broadband networks and services are an important prerequisite for achieving productivity gains from IT and for achieving important policy objectives in many areas of society. At the same time, as more and more of us use advanced network services in our daily lives, there will be more who want and require higher speed and broadband capacity. But here we have big challenges. Despite high levels of activity in the Norwegian broadband market and a variety of good projects around companies, municipalities and public services, development is later than previously assumed. There's several reasons for that. Both general uncertainty about the benefits of broadband applications, relatively few broadband services, low market competition, changes in the economic climate for investment in IT and broadband, and not least limited demand, have contributed to a slower development, in Norway as in other countries. From the last two years, we have learned that the financing capacity and willingness of the telecommunications operators have changed rapidly. If we look back another few years, we remember both a violent optimism and a later downpour. The picture is the same in most other countries. Therefore, my starting point is that it is still not possible to determine what will be covered by the market. This applies to both commercial, organisational and technical barriers to development. The ability of the market to meet broadband needs depends on the demand of the relevant market. The government will therefore strengthen demand by facilitating the increasing demand for broadband and broadband services by public enterprises. As my predecessor himself has stated, it is unlikely that the former Stoltenberg government’s objective of offering good broadband markets to all schools, municipal administrations, hospitals and libraries could be achieved by the end of 2002. It is also uncertain whether the objective of good broadband market offers for all households will be met by the end of 2004. With the exception of hospitals, the objectives were likely to be optimistic, but I still believe that the main features of the strategy are the right ones. The development of the infrastructure shall be market-based. This approach has also been widely agreed on. The role of the authorities is to ensure competition in the market and to stimulate development by being an active demand for broadband and broadband services in order to meet the needs of a modern public administration. In areas where there is no commercial basis for development, the Government will consider implementing specific measures. However, the market must be allowed to operate for a further time before any specific measures are put in place. The government has reviewed the objectives of broadband work: ‘There shall be good broadband market offers in all parts of the country. During 2005, all primary schools, public libraries and municipal administrations will be offered broadband access at competitive prices. By the end of 2003, all secondary schools shall have such offers. Furthermore, all hospitals shall have broadband connection to health networks during 2002.’» In parallel with the expansion of these institutions, broadband networks will also be available to households in the areas of expansion. We expect that the deployment of a platform-based digital TV network will also contribute to broadband for households. The Government will consider different measures to promote the development and use of broadband and broadband-intensive services. Competition in the telecommunications market has been significantly strengthened since liberalisation in 1998 but remains unsatisfactory. Telecoms will continue to work actively to strengthen competition. In order to bring framework conditions better into line with the technological and market situation in the years to come, the Government will, in the autumn of 2002, submit proposals for a new law on electronic communications. Changes will be proposed here, such as: will provide a basis for strengthening competition in this area. In these days, the Government presents a big message on the situation in the Norwegian mobile market. The Communication focuses on measures to ensure sustainable competition in the mobile market in the years to come. In addition, there is a need to coordinate existing instruments with a focus on demand aggregation. The government sees it as a challenge to create a more concentrated regional demand for broadband, for example: through municipal and inter-municipal cooperation projects and through the sectoral investments in IT. Our main focus is on schools, but in addition, municipal administrations, libraries, primary health services and, above all, industry will be naturally involved in bringing together demand and thus strengthening negotiating power and promoting rapid and holistic development. The Government has continued the HØYKOM scheme, which is a grant scheme to stimulate public agencies to use modern high-speed, information and communication networks. In 2002, priority will be given to projects aimed at schools, hospitals, municipalities and libraries, with particular emphasis on the school and health sectors. Furthermore, it is planned to invest in pre-communities to act as centres of excellence for broadband in the districts. Overall, the HØYKOM scheme for 2002 has been allocated 53.5 million. kr. Of this appropriation, at least SEK 7,5 million shall be committed. kr is used for projects in Finnmark. Broadband expansion in municipalities varies greatly. There is a strong need for guidance for municipalities and others on what broadband can be used for and how they should organise an extension in their districts. The Ministry of Transport has published a guide on this topic, and it will be followed up, such as: through the Fiber School project in the Ministry of Education and Research. The tax-reduction system through the employer for expenditure related to the home PC has been a national success. The scheme also includes costs of broadband for PC use, which have not been used up to now. The Home PC system has led to a faster distribution of PC equipment in households, and I expect the same to be the case for broadband connectivity. The scheme was tried by the Stoltenberg government just before it left the government offices, but was reinstated by the Cooperation Government. The cooperative organisation will ensure that the scheme is formally regulated by regulatory amendment or, where appropriate, by legislative amendment. Schools and public libraries are good examples of institutions that can use broadband to increase the quality of their services. Digital learning materials are an important complement to other learning materials, and the use of such learning materials requires broadband. 96 pst. by Norwegian schools today are connected to the Internet, while less than 20 pst. schools are associated with what can be called broadband speeds. This means that there is a need for a significant upgrade to enable schools to benefit from modern multimedia services. Access to IT in the public libraries is important. It ensures access for many who do not have access at home, and not least guidance and exploitation of the librarian’s unique competences. Widebands in the public libraries thus enable the public libraries to fulfil their important tasks as knowledge centres. Statistics show that the number of visits to libraries is increasing, while the number of book loans is falling slightly. This is explained by the increased demand for other media and services by librarians. The government will follow developments in the broadband sector closely. We will evaluate the development and identify the status of the objectives of the broadband communication action plan at the end of this year. Demand for and use of new electronic services is increasing, not least among young people. In Norway, this is illustrated, inter alia, by: the overall decline in the use of the counter-criticism and electronic services taken over by e-mail and SMS messages. The use of voice telephony goes down, and we are increasingly communicating in writing. There is therefore a high potential for the development and deployment of new services and products. With our IT interest and well-equipped population and business life, we therefore have the prerequisites to be far-reaching in terms of applications and the production of electronic content. We therefore believe that time is now ripe to look at the framework conditions for content production. We need to provide good framework conditions for Norwegian industry to exploit the possibilities of the network, from software development to e-commerce. That is why the Government presented its strategy for electronic content on 9 April. The Internet has provided new meeting and market places and standards for human relations – a new, global and virtual public space that challenges our culture, our way of living, and creates opportunities for business development. The contents of this new public space form the basis for the concept of ‘electronic content’. Electronic content means here the entire value chain, from basic data to derived services for private and professional users based on digital technology. Digital maps, archives, museum materials, electronic patient records and online newspapers are all examples of electronic content. Enterprise development is an overall objective of the strategy for electronic content. But it is also about securing our cultural heritage and further developing our identity and our language and ensuring participation in democratic processes. Modernisation of the public sector is also central. In particular, the development and demand for digital content are closely linked to broadband development, as many new content services require broadband connectivity. Some of the challenges at the heart of the electronic content strategy will be: The long-term objective of the economic environment is non-discrimination between electronic and other media, if other objectives or conditions do not provide a factual basis for different treatment. The long-term objective of non-discrimination should therefore not be understood as an objective of extending existing aid schemes in the short term. Price and payment mechanisms are critical factors for the functioning of the electronic information market. As part of their delivery, the public sector as a demanding customer shall contribute to efficient payment solutions and stimulate the production of electronic content. The market must provide good returns, and content providers themselves are entitled to focus on and test solutions to the income problem. We must ensure competition and diversity at all stages of the production and dissemination of electronic content in Norway. Copyright shall be ensured through simple and predictable mechanisms. The public sector has large quantities of basic data, such as: archived material, map data and health data. These have growing commercial interest. Issues related to the country’s role as owner and developer and the country’s price policy in this regard are complex and have to be addressed. It is necessary to balance the organisation of competition and industrial development with the need for cost recovery and any development tasks in the existing public services. In order to avoid illegal and unwanted content, we must give priority to awareness-raising and the establishment of guides. The Government will establish an Internet resource centre for safer use of the network and aims to launch a awareness-raising project aimed at children and young people about illegal and harmful content. The official languages and target forms in Norway — book targets, new Norwegian and Sami — need to be taken into account, and measures to ensure the linguistic diversity of Norway must be distinguished from those for groups with special needs. We need to ensure that the official languages of Norway, both Norwegian and Sami, do not disappear in a development increasingly marked by the English-American. We also need to ensure that cultural heritage in Norway is accessible and further developed through digitisation and making available of existing material. Groups of different needs shall be ensured access to important electronic content for their participation in society. As a rule, access is most effectively ensured through universal design rather than special organisation for different groups. Mobile content options will be followed up in later versions of the strategy. The Government will also consider launching more pilot projects, in the context of initiatives already under way, with a view to achieving progress and greater clarity in the potential of particularly important areas. Pilot projects will help clarify problem areas that have so far created difficulties for the Norwegian content market. Examples of current issues include access to electronic map data, language technology, Norwegian knowledge sources, recovery and re-use and Sami IT. Making content available by electronic means is no longer a delimited peripherality for culture and research; it is far on the way a prerequisite for further production and development. While digitalisation offers great opportunities, it also raises significant challenges in terms of what to digitise and how to ensure the legibility of original digital material in a long-term perspective. The digitisation also leads to the transformation of the country's traditional ways of making knowledge and culture available to the population through the education and library sector. A small country with a small language will not be able to compete on the international knowledge market, even in its own language. The availability of research, archives and culture is thus not only a limited content problem, but also the preconditions for future production. The IT revolution is not only about major technological advances but also about profound societal and economic changes. Developments contribute to changing social and cultural patterns, challenging laws and regulations and developing and implementing new products and services. The emergence of the digital society carries great opportunities for development that require determined efforts to achieve. The government will more systematically emphasise and exploit the interaction between availability and safety, competence and content development within competitive framework conditions. An important venue for these instruments is also the public sector. The government’s vision for IT policy is that information technology can contribute to increased value creation in business, a more modern public sector and contribute to strengthening people’s belonging and participation in society – in short, giving us a better daily life. These are the overall objectives of the eNorway Plan and the Government's IT policy. And this is the goal that obligates. The government will launch an offensive and targeted IT policy for the next few years through the eNorway initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e384	The President then thanked the President for the statement, and would suggest that it be put to the vote at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e400	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2709]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e416	The vast majority of the members of the Committee do not intend to add to any major debate on this Document No. The 8th proposal. It is a relatively recent issue in Stortinget. It was treated in conjunction with Ot.prp. No 58 for 1998-99, cf. Inner. O. No 82 for 1998-99. Therefore, the majority – and reflected in the vote – do not see reason to take up the same issues now. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we have the same position as at the time. We do not want to open up political TV advertising in Norway. In our view, it has quite far-reaching implications for the political system, for democracy, and it will lead to a very large amount of money deciding election campaigns. We have the same points of view that we had at the time, and we don't want to do a new round on these questions right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e428	I think there are a few gaps in the rapporteur's presentation. It has far-reaching consequences, claims the rapporteur, to open up political TV advertising, because the money will then control the election campaign. Per. Today, political advertising is permitted in newspapers. Political advertising on cinema and on local radio is permitted. What the rapporteur does not answer clearly is why local television should be discriminated against in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e435	It is not just in Norway that there are rules that discriminate against different media in relation to political advertising. Other countries with which we can compare have quite similar rules in terms of political television advertising. It's caused by a lot of things. Of course, it is partly due to the fact that TV is a completely different medium from newspapers, and this is due to the fact that advertising on TV has a different price level than advertising in newspapers. In addition, the article from Knudsen is characterized by a very lack of logic in itself. Why in the world should there be a distinction between local television and national television? That's the good question about that document. The 8-proposal by Ulf Erik Knudsen here defends. Why political TV advertising is good on local TV, but not good on national TV, seems far more strange to me than having general rules that do not allow political TV advertising.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e440	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e443	On the right, we are very much in agreement with what has been the starting point of the Progress Party, and we have programmed that political advertising should be opened up on local television. Once we've agreed to that, it's because we think it'll be positive for the development of the TV media, and we see it as important in relation to the whole of the media we need to have a lively and good debate in Norway. Now it's not that long since we had a similar debate, and we can only see that there's no change in the possibilities of having a majority to open this up. From the right side, we have therefore not seen any reason to proceed with this matter, and we have thus joined the rapporteur's presentation. However, we see that it is important to work on the framework conditions for local television in the future, and we believe that it is important to strengthen the local TV media in order to get the widest possible platform for public debate. But I'm sure we can do that in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e450	Norway has a very low turnout, which should worry everyone who works with politics, because it is a threat to democracy. It is therefore very important that all political parties be allowed to communicate their message to the population. It will be wrong to restrict the information to be provided to the voters, and it is likely that there is a conflict with the Constitution § 100 on freedom of printing and expression. I hardly think any party in Norway today would call for disobedience to the law, contempt for religion, morality or the constitutional powers. In fact, these are the only limitations contained in Section 100. I believe that the most important thing for any party that had been allowed to buy advertising on TV was to convey its political message. The Progress Party can only see positive aspects of attempts at political advertising in local television. Firstly, the local population is presented to the representatives of the various parties in their own municipality and is also given insight into the programmes of the various parties. And what's wrong with that? What's wrong with people either taking a break from or pressing a party to their hearts, because they finally get real information about the parties? There is so much ‘silver’ as advertising that a little informative and good political advertising can hardly harm anyone. This reminds us of censorship, and we cannot understand the refusal of the other parties to such a test arrangement. This could even have had other good aspects, such as recruitment and the vitalisation of political commitment and work, which are fundamental in a democratic society. So it's on the radio, but it's not on TV. - Understand who's capable. So a trial plan means an experiment with something new to get the population involved. But it is well here, as in other things the Progress Party promotes, that anything that is new must be processed for seven, eight years before they come to the conclusion that it is basically a good idea. And this is a good idea. Another thing about trial schemes is that if it were to prove that this was terribly harmful or otherwise could have negative consequences, this would have emerged in the evaluation, and it could be concluded that this might not be suitable for the television media. Now I don't think this would be the result of such an evaluation. But it's just speculation, and I'm not going to drive it out of this pulpit. Information and information have never hurt anyone. I don't think getting our voters to know about party programs hurts either. In the light of what I have just said, I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e467	Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e470	I do not intend to enter into a long, rhetorical debate about this private proposal for a probationary system with political advertising in local television during the 2003 municipal and county elections. This issue has been debated repeatedly in Stortinget and was recently discussed through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 58 for 1998-99. I want to point out that SV stands firm in its basic vision and will not open up to political advertising in broadcasting. Of course, it also includes local television and local election. Big words are often used in the debate to open up political advertising. It is a violation of freedom of expression, it is said – one of the pillars of our democracy. Freedom of expression and democracy are vital to defending SV. That's exactly why we say no to political advertising. The prohibition of political advertising is precisely a means of promoting real freedom of expression. A prohibition prevents capitalist parties and organisations from taking advantage of their views by buying animal advertising spots in broadcasting, at the expense of others who cannot afford to be heard, or in whom capital forces are not interested. The role of the media in democracy will also be weakened if political advertising is allowed. Media has a central role in defending individuals and society against power, whether it is political, business-based or otherwise. If the media were to be financially linked to parties that would promote their political views, the independent role of the media would be threatened and democracy weakened. The call for impartiality and the presentation of a political party will be destroyed. There will be a very unfortunate mix of editorial material and paid advertising space. In election studios, all political parties are ‘grilled’ and positions are tested through debate. In advertising, the political message will be ‘hanged in the air’ – untouched, one-sided and undisputed. Television has a particularly strong impact on the recipients. A political message to be adapted to certain TV production criteria will have to find its form, in line with other advertising, where the message is very compressed and spiked positively or negatively in order to obtain a desired effect. Where the objective is for the recipient to remember one message better than others, strong instruments are needed. I believe that this could lead to a distorted picture of political reality. It is not the political content that becomes crucial, but who is able to find out the advertising agency that comes up with the best idea of impact. And we all know that it's not free. If the political message is to be paid by advertisements and advertisements, less powerful parties will not be heard. The real freedom of expression is thus threatened. During the last discussion of this topic, the relationship with the Constitution was § 100 – i.e. the protection of freedom of expression – carefully debated. I just want to refresh the memory of Stortinget by referring to one of the many statements that the Ministry of Justice had: ‘When a broadcaster sends an item for which another party has paid and determines the content, it is not natural to see it as an opinion by the broadcaster. This feature has more impact on the business of the enterprise. In relation to the broadcaster, § 100, second and third sentences, can hardly provide any protection against a ban on the transmission of such an item in return for remuneration. However, the entity remains free to send the message as an editorial free entry.» I believe that this opinion points out the importance of not mixing in any way the roles of an independent editorial on the one hand, which is to work according to the principle of editorial freedom, and on the other hand it is to buy an editorial space with unknown actors with economic or other interests on the other, where the message itself can get a wrapping that gives the impression of being editorialally independent and impartial information. This is a serious breach of freedom of expression. Many countries are fighting an intense battle today to achieve what we have done in Norway, not to let political directions or parties control the content and buy the message, but to keep a free and impartial press. Politicians shall not become a source of revenue for the free press, and at the same time be an actor to regulate how a political message is to be disseminated, and also to regulate broadcasting, through concessions and regulations. This would make it difficult to exercise critical journalism and would not be credible to the recipients. Recipients may become confused and develop uncertainties as to when an opinion has been paid for and when an opinion is the result of a good journalistic craft. How positive it has been to use political advertising in radio during the 2001 election is highlighted. I would like to point out that SV also believes that it is fundamentally wrong to distinguish between advertising for life's vision and political message and radio and TV. It is important to promote the actual freedom of expression by not giving capitalist parties and organisations the advantage of promoting their views in the purchase of advertising space in radio and broadcasting. Finally, I would like to mention something media researcher Jo Bech-Karlsen has written. He points out that we have a strong Nordic educational tradition based on dialogue and respect for the values of the recipients. While the classical European tradition sees the recipients as a ‘empty vessel’, to be filled with knowledge from experts or officials to transfer knowledge to the people. In the Nordic information tradition, the information is in a dialogue with the recipient. Here I am talking about two-way and one-way communication and information on a level playing field from above. I would like to take the opportunity to point out that SV will work for a strong Nordic information tradition, where there is a two-way communication on equal terms between sender and recipient. I believe that political advertising, funded by actors with clear self-interests, is a violation of freedom of expression, and that is the opposite of the obligation to provide information and information to viewers and voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e507	I can largely agree with the rapporteur's brief statement on this matter. The Christian People's Party is opposed to sending political advertising in such a powerful medium as TV, in this case local TV. We believe that in terms of political debate and information, it should be the responsibility of the editorial board to ensure that it is as good and balanced as possible. On the other hand, we see local media, both local television and local radio, as very important and strategic media to strengthen not least local democracy. It's a value that we should raise. What has been used as an argument to avoid political advertising has been the need to strengthen local media, and in this case local television, financially. I can understand the need to strengthen the economy of local media. Now, however, the situation is that the local television economy in Norway has gradually improved, and is not particularly bad today. We know that the agreement with TVNorway, which most local TV stations belong to today, will be renewed or reviewed at the end of the year. I assume that both the Government and the Biggest follow the situation closely, and that we are concerned with the economy of local media, both on television and on radio, so that they can have good framework conditions and have the meaning that these media should have, not least in order to strengthen local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2709]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e533	Gambling in Norway translates for approximately DKK 20 billion a year, of which automatic gambling accounts for approx. $8 billion. There's a lot of money going through these vending machines, and because Norway is one of the most liberal countries in the world in terms of restrictions on machine games, there are also a lot of more and more advanced slot machines out there. A large proportion of the revenue from automatic gambling is used for good purposes, including various humanitarian organisations and local teams and organisations. Many local teams depend on this income to survive at all. Yes, for that matter, this also applies to the large humanitarian organisations, such as the United Nations. Norsk Society for the Rescue of the Shipwreck – or the Rescue Company, as it is called in the Folkemunne. That this kind of gambling also brings bad effects, there's no doubt about it. There are more and more people who turn to the public utility because they have become addicted to slot machines. How many of these are, you don't know, but that's an increasing problem, you know. With 20,000 vending machines standing very easily available at the malls, it may not be so strange that more and more people are bitten by the basil and play for more money than they can afford to lose. But this picture is probably more nuanced than that. The Committee therefore considers it appropriate to await the announced legislative proposal, which comes to the autumn, because the Committee knows that a thorough preparatory work is being carried out on this legislative proposal in order to identify the extent of gambling dependence. The Ministry will also look at the current rules in Europe and may propose legislation in which to take the same line. The Committee therefore considers that changes to the law or restrictions on automatic gambling in Norway must be based on factual knowledge and not currently available. The majority of the Committee would therefore like to wait until such factual knowledge is available before any changes are made to the current law. A majority of the Committee notes that, while waiting for the announced proposal, the situation on the gambling market shall be ‘freeze’. A minority of the Committee proposes to freeze the gambling market. I assume that the parties will explain why they support the premises, but not the conclusion. For the Progress Party, this is a complex and complex matter that we feel we have too little factual knowledge about. We will therefore not go further into this matter now, but come back to the matter when it is available until the autumn. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to stress that the Progress Party is also concerned about the increase in the number of game addicts. The development that has taken place on vending machines has been rapid, and may have resulted in consequences that we did not have the basis for knowing when the law was passed. However, the Progress Party is also aware that there are very many who rely on these revenues in order to maintain their activity, whether humanitarian organisations or local sports. The Progress Party is aware that due to changes in the Lottery Act, there are now very many applications by the Untreated Lottery Authority, many of which are from local teams and organisations. Until the proposition is promoted until the harvest, the Progress Party does not wish to freeze the gambling market, so that teams and organisations do not become harmed. The Progress Party believes that instead it should ensure that the 18-year limit introduced is also met. An 18-year limit has been set using vending machines, and those who own either the vending machine or the room must ensure that this law is complied with. If you do not comply with the rules you have, like other permissions, you may also lose permissions on slot machines. When we get the notified proposition for treatment, we hopefully also get an overview of the extent of the problem with gambling addiction. We can then look at the possibilities to build up a treatment provision for those involved. So this is why the Progress Party is waiting for the Government's proposal so that we get the total picture both of the positive effects of vending machines and of the negative ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e564	I can mainly subscribe to what the rapporteur has said. It feels a little unusual to be able to do it in such a case. In the past, the Progress Party has distinguished itself primarily in this area as a champion for the establishment of casinos in Norway, but now they may have seen that this area also has side effects and harmful effects. That's what I think is very positive, and it also characterizes this setting. There is a broad consensus and a broad consensus on the concern that what gives positive income to many non-governmental organisations, teams and associations across the country, also has a shadow side that leads people to play from home and home. We have to work to find the balance between people having fun with the different gambling games that are made of slot machines and other things, in a way that makes people not get into a mess. What is perhaps the biggest deficiency in discussing this is, in fact, knowledge, both of the scale of the problem and perhaps, above all, of the relationship between the different games and gambling addiction — that is, of what causes some people to develop a gambling addiction. That is why I am very pleased that a unanimous committee points to the problem that we lack research in this area, that we lack factual knowledge about what are the facts, and what are the triggering causes of gambling addiction. It is therefore important that the Department follow up on what is stated in the remark that research-competent environments are used to acquire knowledge about this, not only about the scope but also about the type of machines and the type of games that create addiction. Only through a good knowledge base in this area can we manage to create the balance between the necessary revenues that we get in this field to very much important and good activity locally, and a limitation in relation to gambling addiction. I assume that the department will follow this up, and investigate both the cause/effect and the types of games and machines that have the most adverse effects, as well as a researcher on the scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e573	I also agree mainly with the rapporteur's presentation of the Committee's position, and share the concern that the rules applicable to vending machines create more problems of gambling dependence than other games allowed. Hearings on this matter have provided insight into the tragic fate of individuals and families as a result of gambling addiction. Many have incurred a heavy debt burden, and families have also gone into disintegration. Also very young people have become addicted to games, and some have also dropped out of school. There are major challenges ahead of us here, challenges that also concern the treatment of this group. But at least it may seem that part of the treatment that has been used is beneficial. Blue Cross and psychiatrist Hans Olav Fekjær have taken the lead in developing treatment offers for gambling addicts, and for many, this offer has been the rescue back to an almost normal life. I am aware that the Blue Cross, partly funded by the Municipality of Oslo, has been given the opportunity to re-prioritize within their own frameworks so that they have been able to use more resources in the treatment of gambling addicts. I also think it is very positive that the largest humanitarian organisations have now joined forces to draw up proposals to improve the control of the age limit for the use of the machines and to provide less addictive machines. That's absolutely necessary. As we know today about the adverse effects of the most aggressive games, as the Council of State also pointed out in its letter to the Committee, there is a basis for changes in the current rules before the outcome of the study on gambling addiction has been completed. I am pleased that the Government has now announced that they will make a proposition already until the fall, after a broad review of the law on gambling, where a critical review of the entire gaming market will be carried out, and where the problems of gambling addiction will be highlighted in full breadth. As many people have experienced, it is important to make changes, to have all the facts on the table. As I see it, many of the measures in this document are No. The 8-proposal is not based on knowledge of which treatment actually helps. In addition, there is little research in this area. We also know that there is some disagreement among professionals. So there is clearly a need for more research, both on the causes and on what treatment actually works. I want to point out that we had a Document No a year and a half ago. Eight proposals for consideration by the Social Committee, in which a majority, all except the Advance Party, asked the Government ‘to make appropriate proposals for measures that could limit gambling dependence and ensure a good treatment for gambling addicts’. I expect that this is a proposal that will be followed up when the government will present this bill for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e592	Both in the case rapporteur and in others, it seemed that there was no factual knowledge whatsoever in this field, and that the proposal presented was taken out of the bag to Christmas Eve or from some mysterious place. Of course it's not like that. In this field, there is a lot of factual knowledge. Sjøli referred to the book of Hans Olav Fekjær. It is probably the only book – a very comprehensive book – that has been published in Scandinavia that addresses this particular issue, both in its historical context, in today’s context, in facts and in international contexts. In addition, previous studies are available, including: from Norwegian Tipping, and the humanitarian organisations themselves have dealt with this several times and made statements. So it's not that we lack factual knowledge. That's what they say. We in SV are very positive for more research and more factual knowledge in the field. What is important then is that the research is qualified and that the resources needed to obtain further evidence are used. But it's not like that, after a proposition this fall, where you're dealing with this, it ends up getting into facts and experiences. This is no problem we can end once and for all. And so must our proposal be seen. The background to our proposal is that Norway is a different country in this context. We are extremely liberal in relation to gambling. The consequences that many people have had are addiction. In this context, the machines are clearly the worst. This is based on factual knowledge and on experience from international relations. The vending machines only traded last year for approx. $8 billion. Very many of the vending machines around today are of such a type that you can put 500 kroner and manage to play them away in 75 seconds. One doesn't need a lot of research to realize that it can carry the wrong of farms. And one doesn't need a lot of research either to realize that by reducing the machine’s effort – making it weaker – one will prevent some problems. We know what this means: poor advice, failure, crime, mental problems, dissolved homes, job losses, poorer productivity in jobs – and suicide, as the ultimate consequence. So how is this possible? Why do we have that? Why is this desirable? That's because this business is giving a lot of money for good purposes. Well, we say in SV. However, we believe that it is not acceptable to obtain money for good purposes in a way that harms other people. This is a relatively new problem in Norway. We've had it in earlier periods of history, but in our time this is a relatively new problem. It has occurred in the last ten years, i.e. the end of the automatic market in the mid-1990s. This goes on the number of vending machines, on this from coins to notes and on the elevator. So this is a big problem. Once again, we refer to Spring, which says that there are no exact facts. Of course, we'll never be able to find that. However, they assume — based on surveys that we are currently doing in Norway and that have been done in Sweden in the past — that there will be some tens of thousands. They know the problem in that way that they get people in for treatment, and we're also talking about children all the way down to the 12-year-olds. We've got the creation of Anonymous Gamblers in Norway. I myself have been invited to meetings with Anonymous Gamblers. I would recommend several people to contact and join some of these meetings. Those who, having been at any of these meetings, don't understand what a major social problem this is, should go to another meeting. The essence of our proposal is fewer vending machines, reduced bets and profits and the location of vending machines in robust adult environments, precisely in view of the 18-year limit. As it is today, the 18-year limit is a joke. That being said, we are very pleased that the Committee expresses their concern at the increasing size of vending machines in Norway, and that dependence... seems to be increasing. ... the Committee wishes to see measures which may limit the level of injury’. This right here is a very important confession, which a joint committee probably hadn't come to just a short time ago. In the SV we note that in this round there is no majority to deal with our proposal. The majority want to wait until the announced bill on gambling, coming to the fall, which is an overall review of games and lotteries in Norway. We take a positive view of that, and – to put it this way – for us in SV, the results in this case are the ones that count. And although we believe that there is actually enough knowledge and experience to already take action now, we also see the benefit of seeing the whole problem of gambling in a larger context. We are pleased that a majority of the committee is in favour of freezing the situation on the gambling market until the proposition has been dealt with. In this context, there is a recognition of the problems and a desire that at least the situation should not deteriorate. The Committee further states that no new types of gambling shall be authorised and that trial games in progress shall not be granted permanent concessions or be converted into permanent games. The total number of ATMs must not be increased. This I think is very good. It's very nice. And to me that means that our Document No. 8 proposals have not been discarded in any way. With regard to the need for treatment, treatment of gambling addicts is established in Norway around the country. A characteristic of these institutions is considerable, but insufficient, resources. We have proposals that we want to strengthen this offer immediately. I have to say that, based on the conclusions of an overall committee, on the concern and acceptance that this is a real problem, I am a little surprised that the proposal to strengthen treatment already does not bring together a majority in the committee. I believe that there is no real reason to postpone the strengthening of this offer if you acknowledge that it is a major problem, and that it per. Today there is a lack of treatment. It is possible that a greater review into the harvest will demonstrate the need for further strengthening, but it should not prevent us from helping those who need help now. Even if we don't get a majority to make big changes in this game, we're always happy with what's happened. We look forward to the proposition coming to the harvest, and promise to participate actively. In the light of what I have said, we will make our proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e620	The representative, Mr Bergo, has referred to the proposal from SV for a transmission proposal, and has addressed this. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e625	I find it a little difficult to hear the representative from Bergo saying that it is wrong that there is not enough factual knowledge. The representative Bergo tells us that the only book in Norway in his battle of gambling addiction is the book of Fekjær. Then we have one. He refers to Spring no matter what he's talking about, and that's exactly what's the point. We want a broader information, more facts and from several sources. It's not all black or white. When we had a hearing, I asked Mr. Fekjær a question about how many people he thought were gambling addicts in Norway. He couldn't give a number to that. If there's no lack of factual knowledge, I don't know what it is. My question to Bergo is, Is he afraid to know more? Why does he think that one source provides enough factual knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e634	It is possible that the representative Woldseth was not present during the first part of my post where I was just talking about sources and facts. I said that there is a lot of factual knowledge. In fact, I referred to Fekjær as the largest specialist in the field in Norway, but I also referred to various international studies, to Norsk Tipping, who has conducted studies, to assessments of the humanitarian organisations and to several treatments of this matter here in the United Kingdom earlier. It is clear that we know a lot about this matter, and there is a lot of factual knowledge. But it's well-known political tactics to say that because we don't know enough, or we can't do enough, we push it in front of us, and then we mean something about it later, especially if it's uncomfortable to mean something at the moment. And I understand that someone needs it in this case. It's like saying we can't do anything with alcoholics in Norway because we don't know exactly how many there are. We will never know how many dependants there are in Norway. Some of the problem with gambling addiction is that it's an extremely hidden problem. If a person drinks alcohol, one at least becomes full, and usually visibly intoxicated. When a player plays a game, they don't turn black, they don't get dirty, they get ugly, and they do it in the hidden. This is perhaps one of the most degrading forms of addiction that some people suffer — and then with the consequences that one sees. It's not that there's no knowledge, but I also said, we like to take more knowledge. We will also help us to be able to do more. That is why the Committee, in its comments, has asked for more research. In this I add qualified research. But that we don't have knowledge, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e643	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e646	I want to give some credit to SV, I, for raising this issue. I do not think it is right that the representative, Mr Bergo, says that we have not actually dealt with this. We have. Let's do it now. However, we have not completed the problem with regard to this proposal. It will be annexed to the Protocol and will certainly be based on the work now being done in the Ministry, taking into account the legislative proposal to be submitted in due course. I also believe that the representative Bergo is right when he says that we know enough to act. The book of Spring is mentioned. We have had countless media outreachs about many fates – and as late as today in our country about one destiny. As the representative, Mr Bergo, has also underlined, is the great darkness. There are serious consequences with clearly increasing gambling dependence, a symptom that has more similarities with drug dependence, and there is every reason to take this seriously. When we say that we have enough facts, it goes on the problem itself. What we may not have enough knowledge about is how we're going to meet this, how we're going to set up the laws and regulations to deal with it. I guess that's where we need a little bit more time, and that's why we've asked that we can now wait for the announced proposition. When you have to make laws, there will always be consequences that we don't see. It has also been shown in this case, not least in relation to those who, on the other hand, have also relied on the slot machines to make money on them. This is a very complicated area, and I think we're going to take the time it takes to get this really permeable, so that we get the best possible legislation. Like Mr Bergo, I am very pleased that there is now also a majority in the Committee to freeze the situation on the gambling market. I think that's what we can do here and now to meet this situation. Then we may come back with the measures that you think are necessary to limit and improve the situation on the gambling market. That is at least the starting point of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e662	The centre party, as well as the rest of the committee, is concerned about the increasing volume of machines in Norway, and also about the fact that there seemed to be an increasing number of game addicts. And it's a crossroads that Norway is one of Europe's most liberal countries when it comes to gambling. It is also a crossroads that the practice of Norwegian slot machines is quite different from that of the other Nordic countries. In Norway, there are over 20,000 slot machines, which correspond to far more than that in Sweden and Denmark combined. The Norwegian practice that aggressive machines are the first to meet one when entering a grocery store is not found in many other countries. And when gambling addiction takes over and money that should have gone to milk and bread, instead of being used on vending machines, it naturally leads enough to many tragic situations not only for the game addicts, but also for the rest of the family. Our voluntary and non-profit organizations, which depend on the income of machines, do an amazing job. But we have to look for a system that allows the non-profit organisations to continue their efforts, while at the same time looking for measures that will also deal with the difficult situation of those who depend on the game. This is a demanding challenge. It is also worth noting that voluntary organisations are in favour of constructive cooperation with the Ministry in the alerting work on changes in the law on automatic gambling. The Central Party is confident that the Ministry will give this work a high priority and will return to Stortinget with proposals for measures to secure both the non-profit organisations and the many thousands who depend on slot machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e675	When I take the floor on this matter today, it is precisely with the background that this issue in the past period was linked to the Justice Committee, and we worked a lot precisely on the issues that have now been raised. I even had a Document No. 8-proposals followed up by the Storting, enabling the addicts to be treated for their dependence. And then it sat a little bit in the middle of a while. When it comes to gambling, I fully agree with the representative of Bergo, who says that we know a lot. Of course we don't know everything – and do we ever want to know everything, no matter how much you research? The times will change, knowledge will pass on, knowledge will expire, new knowledge will come. What we know is that for the game-dependent, it's the machines that account for the highest percentage of the addictive effect in the particular class. 80-90 pst. dependants are dependent on vending machines. It's necessarily leading our vision in a special direction. But I am also concerned that it is important to obtain the necessary background material to take the decisions that may be appropriate in the individual situation. Hans Olav Spring at the Blue Cross Centers, Oslo, has been mentioned. He is probably – and not only likely, but I think we can say that he is – the largest capacity in this area in Norway per year. today. Hans Olav Fekjær is in many ways a database for this, for he collects experience and knowledge from around the world on the issues associated with gambling addiction. And not least in relation to Australia and Canada, where a lot of things have been done about these issues, it's knowledge that can be transferred to our problems. We also know that addictive effects are precisely what are related to the machines – or, as they are often referred to in the public mouth, ‘the bandits’. These ‘bandits’ are light, sound, image and payment, which help to create attitudes – or feelings or whatever it may be – in people who want to continue and continue and continue until the wallet is empty. We're facing a dilemma when it comes to games. I myself am a strong supporter of the voluntary organizations, and all the positive work they do. I myself expressed the concern of the Parliament's spokesman in the previous period about this which can be seen in many ways as a double morale, that on the one hand we want to allow automatic games to obtain funds that can keep the lives of musicians, 4H, youth associations of different kinds, sports teams, etc., and, on the other hand, we need to provide for the treatment of people who become addicted because of this. It's a dilemma! There is also no reason to stick under the chair. Then we're in the area that the representative Gieske pointed out, that we don't just maybe here, but definitely have to try to find the balance point that's best, unless we're going to say that all automated operations are to be banned. But then the Storting will probably be be besieged – so that we hardly get in the doors – by people who do voluntary work, which we want them to do, but which they do not have financial basis to continue with. Automatic activities provide the necessary support for voluntary social and humanitarian work, but also give rise to dependence and human tragedies. As I am on the board for a business that operates and has been involved in the treatment of gambling addicts, I have been face to face with people who have played away their monthly salary between one and two hours, and I have faced mothers who have told me that their 12-year-old daughter is a prostitute to get money to play on the vending machine at the mall. It's tragic! We have to do something to prevent this from developing. I was glad to hear that the Progress Party now admits that this is a problem. This was not done in the Progress Party in the previous period. It was consistently refused to recognise that this was a problem. Now the Progress Party is also there, and then there is probably hope that we can eventually get full backing from there as well. And then to the last point that I'm going to make, namely the treatment of gambling addicts. It is known that the similarity between gambling and drug dependence suggests that treatment should follow the same principles as treatment for addicts. It is also offered today. The problem is not who should be treated or where treatment can be offered, but the economy. The representative, Mr Sjéli, just referred to the fact that the Blue Cross Centre in Oslo has been redispatched in its ordinary budget. This means reducing the treatment of alcohol addicts in other areas of the Oslo Blue Cross. At a treatment facility in Drammen, where I am on the board, we had a trial project with a lot of people, but we didn't get money to continue the project, so we had to cut it out. But now we've had a lot of work to do, and so we've started up again. We don't have the funds for it, but we're trying to get it. I would therefore encourage the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Culture to work together on this issue until the announced proposition is presented, so that we can also find a means of coverage to obtain funding for treatment. In other countries, for example: In Australia and Canada, a certain percentage of turnover in gambling has been allocated to treatment and research. I could imagine that it would have been a good idea for the Minister of Social Affairs to also consider such a solution in relation to the proposition to be made, so that we not only talk about the problem, but do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e697	I will commend the Marthinsen for the initiative in the previous period and the continued commitment. We have now made a proposal on exactly what he was talking about, namely treatment and money for treatment. With regard to the other proposals we have, on measures to reduce gambling dependence, I think that the argument that comes from the others, about postponing it to the harvest, has something to do with it. We're in on it now. Several studies may say something about what is the real need. But what we know today, and so does Marthinsen, is that the need for treatment is greater than the offer. And here we're really talking about change. We know that if those who need this treatment don't get it now, it will cost us much more than it will do to strengthen the treatment supply. The question to Marthinsen is therefore: What is the reason why the Christian People's Party cannot support our proposal to strengthen treatment provision already revised?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e706	If it had been up to me, I would have liked to support that proposal here and now, because I know that the employees of the treatment institution that I referred to have chosen to work for free if they do not get the money, to get this treatment up and running again. But the problem is put into context, and I accept that this line has been put on – to see it all in the context that will come. That is why I have now expressed my hope that the Minister of Social Affairs will find funds, so that we can quickly cover what it costs to get these treatments started. That's quite correct in general, as Bergo says, 'exchange money'.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e713	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e716	It has been very interesting to listen to the debate, and I am pleased with the contributions that have been made. They're completely in line with what we're working on in the government when it comes to this issue. I would like to inform Stortinget that when it concerns the government's work, it was originally stated that we should send a big message about this matter in the fall. But on my initiative – and of course I decide – we want to make a proposition, because it will take less time before we can implement the measures. In fact, we know enough to implement measures already today. We will, of course, also obtain more information, which may be good to bring with us in the further work. The joy here is that we know that we have a whole big deal behind us when we are now going to make proposals for action. All that is mentioned in the setting is of course taken into account in the work on the proposition to be submitted in the fall. I believe that if we had decided something today, the measures would not have been implemented until what they are now, with the pace of work we have set in relation to the proposition. The representative of Lund Bergo is quite right that we are extremely liberal in this field in Norway. We have so far known about it, and I would like to mention that in the Bondevik I administration we proposed some changes to streamline the market. Then we didn't get multiple numbers for it, but today I think we'll be able to get multiple numbers for actions that put the people who are hurting in this context, in focus, to try to help them. What I hope we can do is make a proposition that also takes care of the needs of voluntary organizations for income, and so we see the suffering parties on our side. With the measures we are proposing, we will at least dampen the pressure. I look forward to re-examine the matter with the committee when we present the proposition, and I am pleased with the signals we have received, which we will take with us in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e729	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e732	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the Bondevik I government proposed changes in this area. It's not quite right that you didn't get a majority, because you actually got a unanimous increase against yourself in terms of those proposals. Also the government parties at the time – the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – opposed the proposals that were put forward. The main reason for this was that the then government did not have a good enough answer to how to compensate for the loss of income that some NGOs and charities would experience. So my question number. 1 is: When the Government makes the proposition, will it then ensure that the various organisations are fully compensated for the loss of income that would result in any contractions? My question No. 2 goes into research in concrete terms. Will the Council of State ensure that a good research base, i.e. increased research effort, is provided, not just on the extent of gambling? It's quite true, as Magnar Lund Bergo and others have said here, that we really know enough about it to say that it's a problem. What we lack good knowledge about is what machines, what types of games and what types of premise it is that are the basis for people developing gambling addiction. It is through the answers we can find solutions and good limitations that combine the possibility of entertainment and games and limitations in relation to gambling addiction. I had another question – I'll see if I can think of it. No, it's getting along with these two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e743	It is entirely right that the representative Giske says. All parties opposed us. I'm perfectly aware of it, but I wasn't happy about it! The only measure adopted was the 18-year limit, but in such a way that the decision has not been followed up. There is a decision that has not been taken in such a way as to limit the use of these slot machines for those under 18 years of age, unfortunately! We have to do something about that. It's probably right to say that one of the reasons we didn't get multiples was the concern of volunteer organizations. They did a "good" job at Stortinget, which led to the fact that we didn't get any restrictions at all, except for the 18-year limit. We want to make sure that organisations get compensation, but it is also quite clear that if we are to have a gambling market where one will get less money – for now this is a market that is moving freely, and these organisations are getting more and more revenue – we must probably imagine that such an increase in revenue as the one that has been, can one not see in the future. But we're busy with the volunteer organizations' work force, and we want to come up with proposals for action that I think will be able to compensate for the loss of income – at least on the way. That's important, because these organisations are doing a very important job. But once again, if we take the losing parties seriously, we also have to face up to the fact that it will give us fewer incomes. One of the things we can do is look at the distribution of the income that comes in. The distribution we have today is probably not the best, assuming that there are operators who take very much of the income, instead of the organizations themselves. This is to be seen in a context, and I hope that we will be happy to adopt measures that will reduce the problem of gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e754	I forgot a question, but the council also forgot an answer, so it says 1-1. I also asked about this with the research on cause and effect in addition to the extent. My third question, which I did not get started, is based on what we have heard here from, among other things. The representative, Mr Marthinsen, of the Council of State's own party, that there is also a desire for greater efforts to be made in the process. Unfortunately, the SV and the Workers' Party did not get the majority to comment on the increase in treatment. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is it possible for her to conduct conferences with the Minister of Social Affairs about the Government, if any, to take some initiative within the means available to ensure increased efforts in relation to gambling addiction and treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e762	First of all, what goes on research. Clearly, we need to look at both the cause and the extent. We know that the faster the machine, the bigger the winnings, and the faster the winnings, the bigger it gets, and especially if you can get the winnings right away. We know a little bit about that, but we don't know enough. We have to keep working on this. Research needs to be on both cause and scale. Then it's a treatment strategy. Now I actually feel that my task as Minister of Culture is to employ as few as possible in need of treatment. It must be the aim of all of us that as few as possible need to be treated with the machines we are going to allow, where we are going to allow them. So the government -- I want to respond that way -- takes the signals given both from the government party and from a minority in the committee when it comes to a remark about the need for more processing capacity. And then we might have to evaluate what we're going to do from our side. There are many health care tasks, and there are also many areas where queues of people need help. But of course we also take these patients with us in the further work of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e769	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[See page 2709]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e787	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e794	The question of this matter is the right to a disability pension before three years of retirement in Norway after five years or more abroad, and with previously-appointed dishes in Norway. The Committee considers that the proposers really point out that there are today more Nordics than before who work abroad or who are at least there for a short or longer time, and that we must have a law that takes care of the social security rights for them. Even if there is a multiple and a minority in this case, the factual disadvantage is very small. The majority agree with the Minister of Social Affairs, who in a letter dated 22 February of this year says that the country of work must initially assume responsibility for disability pensions if disability occurs during a foreign stay. The same majority have also noticed from the letter from the Minister for Social Security that social security agreements are in place to ensure that people from countries can compare with one another, to ensure adequate performance. One has also noticed that a solution to the question of supplementary benefits for people who have short butids in Norway is being worked on, as Stortinget has asked. The same plurality implies the limitations that the EEA Agreement implies when it applies to providing services only to people living in Norway, making it most prudent that the issue is assessed and resolved as part of the general faith for supplementing the population's rights when the people's rights to ignition are not met. I expect that the government with its all started work on the matter if not too long comes to Stortinget with its proposals for solutions, and that the matter can get a new round of handling. With these few words, I recommend the recommendation of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e813	The proposers point out that some of the background to this proposal is that more and more Norwegians work and live for longer periods beyond the borders of the country and then return to Norway. During this period, there has been no membership of the population, and then you can get into an unfortunate situation if you become disabled after a return without having sufficient membership time in popular fear before the time of disability. The Labour Party sees the problem in relation to the fact that workers or Nordics living abroad in a number of contexts could fall between two chairs in the social security system. This may be the case referred to in this context, but it may also be in a number of other contexts where different economic and social rights and benefits are provided. This is part of the problems raised in the context of free work and the free capital market. The challenges in this regard must be to have a system in which social rights also follow the worker in such a way that rights are harmonised in the different countries. This is done in a number of contexts within the EEA territory, and the agreements are such that the rights existing in the country of employment should also be for and given to the individual employee there. However, such benefits may differ from those provided in Norway, or the provisions may be such that one falls between two chairs. It is precisely in this context that the Labour Party believes that the social dimension in the EU is so important, including in the EEA context, in order to ensure social rights across borders. Therefore, continuing to work on social security agreements with other countries is important, and it is important to make these agreements so good that the rights enshrined in Norwegian legislation could also apply in other countries. In a society with high mobility across borders, such harmonisation and a satisfactory social rights agreement are crucial for the social and economic security of individual citizens. This must be a continuous work in the future, and on this basis we agree that the present Document No. The 8th motion is appended to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e822	Over time, the Norwegian labour market has changed dramatically in terms of how each enterprise is organised, and not least in terms of location. We have seen a development that has gone from what was previously a very stationary job, with its permanent employees, to a reality with international companies, with departments in many countries, and with workers who are going out to acquire the skills that Norway can take advantage of when these people return to Norway. This is important as we in Norway have a number of companies competing on a global market. When you look at this development that has taken place, you might also notice that the Norwegian legislation is not entirely adapted to the reality of the day. This applies, inter alia, to: the fact that, after five years or more abroad, one has to resume the right to a disability pension for three years. This works unfairly on the proponents of the Progress Party if you have many years of membership in the population from previous working periods in Norway. However, it is reasonable that there should be a vesting period of three years in those cases where one comes to Norway without prior vesting in public health. The current system of new vesting periods has created major problems for the small number of people involved. One has believed that since one has returned to Norway and started to pay social security contributions again, everything has been all right, and the disappointment is all the greater when one hears that unfortunately one has not been in Norway for the three years required after a longer stay abroad, and this despite many years of membership of the population before a trip. This is a system which the proposers find unreasonable, and on this basis I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e831	The claim for entitlement to disability benefit has changed several times since the introduction of popular protection. We know that there are more and more Norwegians working for longer periods outside the country, and it is important that we then have a law that captures this, and that safeguards the social security rights of these workers. The Minister for Social Affairs has sent the Stortinget two letters pointing to the unfortunate fact that persons living in Norway are not entitled to disability pension, even if they have reduced their working capacity by 50 pst. or more. It is important that a sheep make up a system that allows them to have their social security rights. At the same time, however, it must be pointed out and underlined, as the Minister of Social Affairs also did in his letter, that those who have been unemployed in a foreign employment should be covered by the country of work in which he was employed and that responsibility rests with that country of work and employers abroad. We have different international obligations. In the case of social security, it is, in particular, within the EU/EEA area that is our responsibility, in particular, that the non-discrimination requirement applies unabated. That is why the majority also refers to it in the consideration of this matter by the Social Committee. And a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, refer to the issue we had of social security for those who worked on the continental shelf. It gives a picture that there may be injustices also within the EEA system. Those who work on Norwegian continental shelf get full social security rights, including child welfare, in Norway, although they have never lived here, while Norwegian citizens who work in part of the same EEA area do not have the same rights when working out. At the same time, this excludes all workers coming from non-EEA countries. In the past, it has been possible to negotiate cross-border social security rights and cross-border agreements based on mutual rights, and it should also be an objective for the future, so that there is a greater equality outside those agreements. We in the Central Party also agree with the concerns expressed by the Minister of Social Affairs in his letter, which was also joined by a majority in the Social Committee. We believe that further work needs to be done on the main problem of this, in order to safeguard the rights of people living in Norway when they become ill or ill, that in what is now signaled by the Government, attention will be paid to this, and that clarifications will be provided as soon as possible. As you can see, we recommend that this Document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e847	The trade union Nordens Klippe in Sør-Varanger had as its motto: ‘Do your duty, demand your right’. I perceive that part of the essence of this proposal concerns it. It must of course be that if you earn rights through benefits, the rights must also be proportionate to what you have expressed. And there's going to be a misunderstanding here. One who has been abroad for a few years may, however, have made considerable efforts in advance in Norway, had incomes that have both been taxed and paid contributions to the social security system. The fact that you will then come back and no longer have any rights if you lose your job seems to be clearly unreasonable. So SV agrees with the intention of the proposal. At the same time, several parties have been concerned that when you look at the ring-effects, the consequence, of changing the law on this point, you have to review it so that you don't get any new unreasonable results. What you immediately encounter is the EEA Agreement. In this respect, I am a little surprised that no more have been concerned about how, on some points, this also makes visible the restriction in the operating space that the EEA Agreement gives us. In some areas, we clearly see that the EEA Agreement can be an advantage in international cooperation between EEA countries and EU countries. An example of this could be hospitalisation or general treatment for illness where one hasbureaucraticised previous schemes and where in the different countries the same rights apply to the inhabitants of the country where one gets ill. It is an obvious advantage to have such arrangements with the agreement itself. But this area is an example where it is not obvious that there is any advantage or that it should of course be the way the EEA Agreement states. It must seem quite unreasonable for countries that have developed significant welfare schemes to which their citizens have contributed, to create schemes that are inclusive of countries that have completely different types of schemes, and that may result in unintended effects on the cost side as well. Therefore, when reviewing the law at this point in relation to the Law on People's Rights, I think it is reasonable to point out that aspects of the EEA Agreement are also being considered where restrictions are being imposed on national action spaces that should be taken into account. It should not be such as to restrict Norway’s national action spaces in areas by area in this agreement without starting to assess whether different aspects of the agreement should have been simply renegotiated. And this could be an example of such an area, because, in the interests of the laws of other countries, people of the nation cannot give them the rights they should strictly have been entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e854	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2709]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e870	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e879	I will briefly explain the position of the Labour Party in this matter, assuming that the position is such that it is best for each individual to explain his or her own views. We in the Workers' Party are in favour of the wine monopoly system. We are, therefore, in order to ensure, by law, that the marketing of beer, wine and spirits is carried out under the control of a public monopoly. We are committed to pursuing an alcohol policy that will ensure the position of the wine monopoly in the long run. That means that we are in order to organise this monopoly in such a way that it brings up the people, because we believe that the uprising of the people is an important foundation in order to secure the wine monopoly for the future. We are also very concerned that the monopoly of wine must have an upsurge in the people, because it will in itself be able to restrict the market for illicit alcohol production and could limit the market for illicit spirits. That reasoning leads to that we are because the wine monopoly is present where people live, so that they can serve people where they live. But we see that the wine monopoly has to be tailored to the business-economic aspects of this matter. It would be totally unrealistic to imagine a wine monopoly that is equally powerful — with equal selection and offers — everywhere. That's why we're concerned that the Wine Monopoly must be able to work within flexible models. And that view now makes us ask that the Vinmonopolet investigate the possibility of establishing operational concepts to achieve a better presence on the outskirts, a better availability also for those who live well away from today's wine monopoly shops. In relation to the other parties, I want to sum up by saying it like this: we want an availability beyond what the government parties want. We disagree with the SV's original proposal because we do not want to change the provisions of the alcohol law on who is going to sell alcohol. We are opposed to the proposals of the Progress Party because we are in favour of a public wine monopoly. But, of course, we are pleased that our views win majority voting through the subsidiary voting of various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e892	First, I must stress that it is positive that no one is now on the original proposal, which is promoted in Document No. 8:40. The provision of wine and spirits at public service offices, as the Minister of Social Affairs writes in his letter to the Committee, would have signaled that the public regards access to alcohol as a well-being good in line with, for example, social assistance and social security. There are today three types of wine monopoly: full range, main range and basic range. Now the majority will have a fourth level, a kind of district range, what this must mean. The reason why we're going against this is because we believe that more sales are already moving at the limit of what is economically sound. At the same time, Polet is betting on availability both by telephone, e-mail, letter and deliveries to post offices or through the country post office. In addition, the Vinmonopolet opened an online store in April. Thus, the full range of the Vinmonopole becomes available to all, regardless of their place of residence. On this basis, we believe that the investigation requested by the majority here is unnecessary resource use. I take up proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e901	Bernt Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e904	Initially, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party is not a member of the monopoly system for the sale of legally negotiable goods that the Vinmonopolet stands for today. The promotion party wants, inter alia: that the sale of wine and liqueur be allowed to take place in the wholesale trade throughout the country but in accordance with the same criteria as apply to the wine monopoly as regards who is to be allowed to buy these goods, cf. age, intoxication, etc. However, there is a problem that we come back to when the Stortinget will examine later this month the proposals of the Progress Party to allow the sale of wine and beers in the grocery trade. However, the fact that the Progress Party has a different view of the wine monopoly system itself does not prevent the Progress Party from wanting the system to operate in the best possible way until it is terminated. It is important for the Progress Party that as much as possible in this country be able to access the range of products of the Vinmonopole regardless of where one is located in the country. This is important for example: to be able to reduce the crime associated with the trafficking of smuggling liquor and home burning which is currently taking place. However, it is important to note that access to these goods does not in itself solve the problems of the marketing of illegal goods, as this is mainly due to the strange and insanely high alcohol charges imposed by the majority of this room. But one can at least make sure that those who want to be as law-abiding as possible get it through improved access. The original proposal made by the proposers to open a mini-pole test system at the public service office is, as the Progress Party sees, not the way to go, due to the different types of services to be offered at these service offices. It is natural, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that an attempt to obtain a system in which alcoholic beverages sold today only in the outlets of the Vinmonopole are to be offered on the same premises as other foodstuffs and beverages for human consumption. For the retail trade, representatives of all households come on the spot and can make their own choices. Now that it concerns who is contacting a service office, this person is in need of a public service or service. As long as the majority of this room wishes to protect the wine monopoly itself, it would be natural, in the view of the Progress Party, to differentiate to another industry where a concession is needed for the sale of the industry’s products, namely the pharmacy, where one has now opened up the pharmacies to be responsible for the sale of medicines in the grocery stores in the municipalities where there is either far to the nearest pharmacy or where pharmacies are not present in the municipality. The Progress Party will therefore make proposals to promote the necessary legislative proposals to allow mini-poles to be opened up in grocery stores according to the same model as pharmacies’ drug sales in districts where people have a long way to the nearest pharmacy. Before I finish, it might be interesting in my mind for the previous speaker's posts. The representative, Höie, took the business-economic considerations into account as a basis for the Right's opposition to looking at a slightly different concept for sales in the districts. And then I'm going to ask the representative Höie, and it's possible he can answer in a later post if he wants to: Shouldn't the Wine Monopoly itself be allowed to evaluate that piece, while in this room we can rather facilitate that one can come with models other than those that exist today. So it could have been interesting, if I had brought up the Right Program on this pulpit, to refer a little bit from the Right Program about what they think about where some goods are to be sold. But I won't. You can do it on your own. Finally, I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e925	The representative Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e928	The background for this document no. The 8 proposal was to improve access to legal alcoholic beverages for parts of the country where you have a very long and time-consuming journey to the nearest regular polish sale, which Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was also involved in his post. As one of the proposers, it is important for me to make it clear that what we wanted was a scheme within the framework of the State monopoly on wine. This system will keep SV, and we don't want to contribute to anything that might be suitable to weaken it or put it at risk. The intention of the proposal was further to initiate experiments in a few selected places where there is a particularly long way to the nearest pole. In several such places, schemes have already been set up to allow citizens to carry out a limited range of public services in the local store – a type of public service office, where we thought it could initiate trials under the control of and under the control of the Wine Monopoly with the sale of a limited range of Polish goods. However, when the majority of the Committee had strong objections to this type of connection of service offices and the sale of alcohol, if at several of these points today, Polware ordered and sent through the post, SV accepts that the majority has this objection. Both this and the consideration of the position of the Vinmonopolet, which is also the concern of the Ministry in its letter to the Committee, make it possible for SV to join with a majority of the Committee asking the Government to explore the possibilities for operational concepts that can satisfy the intentions of the proposal for improved accessibility in the outermost regions. And I would like to stress again that for SV's part, this means that it is going to happen without any kind of change in the law that could weaken the state system of wine monopolies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e939	This case is based on the submission by representatives Inge Ryan and Sigbjørn Molvik, both SV, of minipols in public service offices. In the meantime, this has been replaced by a proposal to erase what I would call district wine monopoly with a more limited range of products. Earlier this year, Odelstinget had been working on Document No. 8:30 on the coordination of opening time laws and alcohol laws. Then all the batches, except the Advance Party, said that a desire to restrict access to alcohol in order to reduce total consumption. The same plural further said: ‘The majority consider it very positive that the Ministry is more concerned with the increase in alcohol consumption than with tourism and district policy in the evaluation of the alcohol law’. “Swiftly, clearly and wisely, you ask me. In this setting, the multiple numbers clearly forgot their wise and well-chosen words. What's the score for wine monopoly today? During the last year, there were 182 shops, an increase of 52, or about 40 p.p., in three years. At the same time, one has received several self-interested poles, access to e-mailing, telephone or lettering, free delivery by post office or by country. And in addition, Vinmonopolet opened the online store in April. In fact, access is probably increased by well over 40 pst. in three years. Maybe the real increase is moving towards close to 100 pst. This is not enough for the plural today, though. One has to multiply even more. At the same time, one study shows that there are two things that really matter to the consumption of alcohol: price and access. Most of them say they want alcohol consumption down, but most of the time, they tend to syerate the majority in order to facilitate the opposite. The problems that alcohol brings with it, human and economic, are growing. We are constantly looking at the concerns in newspapers and the media, there are conferences about the concern – everyone is so worried. SV and the Center Party, as well as the Workers' Party, which were united with the Government Party and the Sichera plural to maintain the restriction at the beers' hall, are now behind a proposal which, in turn, can help to increase access to alcohol and, consequently, to the problems of alcohol in society. Imagine if we could put that opposite in focus today! Think if we could focus today on how to limit the consumption of alcohol, just as there is a very strong and affordable focus on the fight against tobacco. Do we need less wine monopoly, maybe? Do we need less self-contained poles to reduce consumption? Should it be shorter opening time? Should the alcoholic strength by volume of alcohol in the shops be lower? Could municipal beer monopoly be stimulated? The Christian People's Party shall be involved in and discuss with all the proposals that are committed to reducing alcohol consumption in society, because it is the growing problem of social policy and welfare policy in Norwegian society. Then I agree with all those – we – who stood by a few months ago that district policy is less important than an alcohol policy that limits access and reduces consumption. That's wise, good words!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e973	It is important to stress that what is to be applied is the lawful placing on the market of alcohol. Alcohol is a legal product. We'd like to agree that alcohol causes a lot of trouble, but nevertheless it's a legal product. It is then important to establish sales and trading venues that are as accurate as possible. There is a relatively large pressure from opinion to increase the number of sales of alcohol. Some even want to sell alcohol in stores; others do not want to sell alcohol at all, but there are a good deal of intermediate items between the black and the white. These include: reason for recalling that in the last three years the number of wine monopoly sales has increased by 52 new sales, or an increase of about 40 pst. during the last three years. It's also worth noting that 46 municipalities that don't have this kind of sale will get it in the next few days. When SV made this proposal, the Senterpartiet saw some unfortunate links in the heading of the proposal, namely that this would be ‘a trial scheme with a minipol at public service offices’. We do not want to connect the sale of alcohol to the public service office, and for that reason we have rejected it. But the intention of the other proposal is, in our opinion, good. It is important to pay attention to increasing the circulation of this legal product in legal form in order to thereby put an end to the illegal, illegal, sale of alcohol. As far as I'm concerned, I think that we in the Central Party and the representative of the Aarøen and the Christian People's Party should be able to meet in many areas when it comes to discussing what is the right procedure here. We want to limit the alcohol turnover, but it is not if we put lids on the whole and illegal sales get even more developed. The representative of the Aarøen asked questions about self-serviced poles – whether we should have fewer of them. I am well-known today under a government in which the Christian People's Party is involved, a development of self-serving poles. I am also not so sure whether municipal wine monopoly is the solution. As the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, said, we do not want a break-up of the wine monopoly system to make changes to the law in order to create a decentralised sales model. It must have been if we should have followed the proposal from SV. We want greater accessibility directed by and in practice outsourced through the wine monopoly system. That is why we are in a majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, asking the Vinmonopolet to explore different options to establish an operational concept to reach the areas where there is a long distance from the wine monopoly sale, in order to be able to offer an offer across the country through a limited range of products and possibly a limited opening time. I have to be allowed to say that I am perhaps more concerned about part of the other public service, which is now heavily centralised, than exactly the availability of alcohol. After all, that's all we're talking about now, and then we're going to take pharmacy coverage, mail, telecommunications, and other stuff like that in turn. I think it's important, at least, to keep the wine monopoly, and that we can limit sales in such a way that we have control of it, because it's right as the Aarøan representative said, that alcohol is the root of a lot of problems and also high public costs, because very much of what our health care system has to deal with is related to alcohol problems. With this I would recommend that document No. The 8 proposal is rejected and it is possible to come back with a scheme in which the Vinmonopolet is given the opportunity to sell with a limited range of goods and, where appropriate, a limited opening time in order to obtain a more satisfactory coverage on the outskirts. It is very important to remember that with regard to the development we now see of the use and placing on the market of alcohol, prevention work needs to be increased, and there needs to be more than words.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e990	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e994	First briefly, why this proposal has been launched. It's about district policy, it's about alcohol policy. The intention of the proposal is to get rid of homeburning, to get rid of smuggling liquor, of which you have a good part in the whole country, but especially in part of District Norway. In order to achieve this, it is reasonable for the districts to have the same access to legal goods as those in densely built districts. That's the one. The other thing I want to mention is in relation to the public service office. Public service offices are so often. In very piggy areas, it is now actively working to get public service offices into shops. So we're talking about communities with 100 to 300 people, where you can easily create smooth, good solutions to get a public service offer to people where you can't have regular public offices. I myself have had the pleasure of participating in establishing approx. 10 such public service offices, inter alia: in Finnmark. What is done is that shops are given the opportunity to take on a number of public tasks that they then carry out for different actors. There may be tasks on behalf of the Equation Office, tasks on behalf of the Post Office and tasks on behalf of others. In that concept, it is interesting that the store on behalf of the Vinmonopolet can also carry out the type of services, so that people living in Loppa can have the opportunity to buy a bottle of white wine when they are going to have a good fish meal, without having to order a week in advance. I am sitting on documentation that shows that if you are going to order at the post today, it will take in Finnmark approx. one week to obtain a bottle of white wine. When you decide to have a good fish meal one night, it is long to wait a whole week for the wine! That's why it's important that we get smooth, good solutions that make districts more equal to cities in this area as well, and that we actually do a job to get rid of both the illicit sale of alcohol and, not least, the production of homeburn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1003	I asked for the word on the basis of Magne Aarøen's articles, because I think it is important to stress that SV wants – and has always wanted – to take seriously the danger it represents if you get very liberal conditions for the marketing of alcohol. This is true in relation to the opening times, where we opposed the recent proposal on the extension of the opening time. This is true in relation to the tipping regulations, where you also have to have restrictions in relation to the tipping. If it's overreach, you have to be able to lose your right of way. And in general, in public terms, you have to exercise close control over the supply of alcohol and how it is practised. There is, of course, a perspective on this, and that is to have national provisions. That is why it is not unproblematic. If you live in a city, you have very easy access to the Wine Monopoly. If you look at this from a national perspective, you have a type of right that others, who don't live in the city, don't have. You have to look at it from a national perspective, and that's how I see this proposal. However, the wine monopoly system is still applicable, as before, in relation to the way alcohol is to be marketed. When you look at the minority proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party, I think it's nice that it's being promoted. Here, in the somewhat surprising situation, the original proposal made by the proposers is not promoted, because the concept of public service offices is perceived to go in a different direction than it was intended. However, when a counter-proposal is put forward, namely that the proposal is rejected, that it is actually not promoted, the consequence will be that when you do not get a majority in favour of it, it seems – normally it is argued this way in this Chamber – that the proposal has won approval by a minority who reject it. I ask the proposers to think through that issue. It is therefore true that there is no wish on the part of the proposers to be on the proposal, because it can be misinterpreted in terms of the concept of ‘public service offices’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1010	I want to link some comments to a few of the posts that have been held here now. First, it concerns the posts of the representative of Magne Aarøen. He represents one of the government parties in the staging room. I believe that the Council of State must now come to the pulpit – I hope at least that the Council of State will do so – and make comments on the post that the representative of the Aarøh had, that perhaps fewer outlets, restrictions on self-service coils, restrictions on opening hours, etc. should now be considered, so that it does not reproduce the perception that this is the Government's position. I believe that the Council of States should now respond, so that we can once and for all clarify that this stands for the vision of the Aarøen and not for the government. So to the representative, Inge Ryan, who showed that there are different types of service offices. He showed, among other things: to Finnmark, where you can offer some services in stores. That is exactly what the Progress Party is dealing with in its proposal. He referred to a model in which it is now possible to have drug sales in the retail trade, subject to the nearest local pharmacy. That is exactly what the proposals of the Progress Party are all about. Then my question to Ryan's representative is: why hasn't Ryan's party been in favour of this model because it was who he stood and talked so hotly about in the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1019	What also makes me take the floor, is that with some wonder, I experience differences of opinion as to how the government parties argue in this case. As I perceived the representative Höie's posts, the main point for Höie was that the reason why the government parties were against was that the new minipoles, or district poles, were not needed because there were other arrangements that satisfied the needs of people in the districts. You could order via telephone or via the Internet. They weren't necessary. But then the Aarøen representative comes and makes a speech with a great deal of pathos and with an alcohol policy argument to go against the majority's point of view. So it was limiting the availability of alcohol that was the reason why you opposed the majority proposal. What Aarøen says is, I think, that one is for wine monopoly in Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen and Tromsø, but for alcohol policy reasons one is against wine monopoly, for example. in Leka, Vega, Smurf, Smurf, or Smurf. My claim is that this kind of mini pole at Leka, at Vega, at the Seam or at Smøla at all does not represent any alcohol policy problem. I agree with Harald T. Nesvik and believe that there is now a reason why the Council of State at least confirms that the structure we have, after all, in relation to the Vinmonopole, with opening hours, etc., should be maintained. The major challenge that this hall will face in terms of alcohol policy in the coming years is the development of alcohol prices. What do we do with the taxes on alcohol? Should the alcohol be substantially cheaper, or should it not? It represents a major alcohol policy challenge. I must then, in the light of the statement by the representative of Aarøen, remember that before Christmas the Christian People's Party – as far as I remember, including the representative of Aarøen – was placed in this Chamber and voted in favour of reduced alcohol charges. And then I have to ask, on the basis of the article that the Aarøen has just held: can he now promise that it will never repeat itself? Or could it be that when we come to the budget for the next harvest, the Aar Island will once again vote for the alcohol to be cheaper in Norway, while the pole of Leka and Vega, you won't have to have any of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1027	I would like to begin by saying that I am in favour of the Committee's recommendation in the opinion on wine monopoly sales, and that, in the circumstances, I do not find any reason to take time to comment on the proposal by Ryan and Molvik on minipols at public service offices. When I'm in favour of the recommendation, it's because I see clearly the need to explore operational concepts that can ensure a wide geographical establishment and more equal availability. In the Ministry of Social Affairs’ 2002 allocation letter, the Vinmonopolet has already been explicitly asked to assess retail models adapted to market conditions, including retail shops with a reduced sales concept, mini-stores, which are part of the plans for future expansions of the retail network. In a meeting with the Wine Monopolis Executive and Government yesterday, I took the opportunity to recall this order, and that it coincides with the decision that I expect will be taken in Stortinget today. I also assume that the Vinmonopolet will give priority to this investigation work and that the Government will receive the necessary supporting material for its assessments by the end of the year. Then I also see that this case contributes to an engagement in the hall, naturally, because it has many and different sides. In working on the plan, I would also like to take into account the wish of the Social Committee for the Government to take into account significant efforts also in relation to the prevention work in several areas, but in particular what has been debated so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1039	Firstly, I would like to comment on this in such a way that the Minister of Social Affairs is now in favour of the majority's proposal here, which is the committee's position, in which the parties of government are not at all involved. It might describe a little bit of the gap in the government in the social policy field. But this is about the availability of alcohol, and accessibility is often discussed in two contexts. One is the physical presence of sales and the ability to obtain alcohol. The other is the price and the ability to buy on a price basis. With the concern expressed here today, there is reason to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: What is the social minister's further agenda for the price development of alcohol and the tax policy that has so far been pursued in Norway at a relatively high level of charges in order to limit the consumption of alcohol? Is it the end of tax cuts in the case of alcohol and alcoholic goods, or will the developments we saw in the harvest continue on the part of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1046	I think in this case I should be careful to say that I see the need to work out different operational concepts, but it is also expected that the investigation will highlight what is at the intersection between availability and profitability. It'll be one of the challenges. I believe that budgetary procedures are not taken into account in this matter. There will be plenty of opportunity, if necessary, to debate it in a different context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1053	What made me take a line was that this case is beginning to have an interesting development. I just have to confirm that my ears actually heard right. Now we have two posts from the government parties, first the representative Höie, who argued why the Right was against the majority's proposal for practical reasons, then a powerful contribution from the Aarøen representative, which added to the majority's proposal quite drastic alcohol policy effects, and then I think I heard that the Council of State was up here and said that she was in favour of the majority's proposal, and that it was not really necessary to adopt it, because the Government had already put the order into effect against the Vinmonopolet. And then my question has to be, Did I hear right?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1061	Of course, it is difficult for me to benefit from what the representative hears, but I can at least say again what I said, namely that I am in favour of the Committee's recommendation in the position on wine monopoly sales, and that it is also because I see clearly the need to explore operational concepts that can ensure broad geographical establishment and more equal availability, and that we have already explicitly asked in the 2002 wine monopoly award letter to assess different store models. Then I have also said that I am concerned about prevention, and that we will follow this up in the work we are doing on the action plan against drugs. What the representative has heard or not heard – at least that is what I have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1070	At least it is clear that the undersigned and the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen have heard correctly. For what is strange here is that the Council of State confirms that she agrees with the majority of the committee and does not actually agree with her own. That's what I think is a pretty interesting thing, and I really appreciate it. But the question that was not answered, and which I urged the Council of State to give an answer to, was the post that the representative of the Aarøan had from this pulpit instead, which was that one should look at the opening hours and reduce the number of wine monopoly sales and also reduce the number of self-service poles. This is a very important signal. I think we should get an answer to this, because we know that today several self-service shops are being built in the direction of the Vinmonopolet. Then it's okay that it's also confirmed in this room that it's the Social Minister and the Right who are dealing with these kinds of things in the Government, and that it's not governed by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1078	I'll follow developments closely, but it's per. Now no reason to say that we're going to reduce the number of wine monopoly sales. This is also a matter that I know about the Vinmonopolet, both the board and the board, follow closely, also what goes on profitability in relation to self-serving pole versus pole that is not self-serving. But there are no signals from me per. now neither in relation to opening times, reduction nor changes beyond what has been made. But what's important to me is that I notice that it's a good uprising compared to having a public wine monopoly. At the same time, it is important that we also have alcohol policy attention in relation to prevention and treatment. So this is two sides where there's kind of conflicting interests, which it's also important to follow. I think that the question has been answered with what I referred to initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1085	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1090	Olav Gunnar Ballo was concerned about the minority proposal. We suggest that the model that the SV representatives originally promoted was not good and should not be tried later. SV has the right to vote in favour of it, and possibly other party that is some of the conclusions. So it can be solved very easily. When it comes to whether the argument is different between us and Right, I'm glad that Bent Höie's argument was identical to part of my argument. We focused on the exact same things. Those who are in doubt will have to re-read the articles. That I had a broader and longer argument is another thing. But there is no divergence between what Höie said, and what I said as part of my argument. I think it's affordable that the Right, unlike some others, think of what they said a few months ago when we discussed the opening time promise and the principles that were there. I actually think some of the members here would be willing to follow that argument today too, but it's now for different reasons as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1099	I also took note of the wording of the Council of State that the Council of State is ‘positive’ in relation to the recommendation of the majority. There's no special reason to criticize the Council of State for that. When SV is in the majority, it is because it can hardly be harmful to investigate that type of scheme limited to a trial. Experience is gained with it, and the experience will have to be based on the results of the experiment. What becomes interesting here when the Council of State believes that it is positive to move forward in relation to such attempts, is what the parties of government in the committee are doing. This should be justified by the Right and Christian People's Party. Now that the Council of State is actually positive and wants to investigate and look at the possibility of carrying out the trials, what will the Right Party and the Christian People's Party justify on their part that they still oppose? Then it would have been possible to get a unanimous recommendation from the social committee. There should then be no reason for the Christian People's Party and the Right to nevertheless oppose the majority position, at least not if it is the case as the Aarøh says, namely that there is no divergence between the Right and the Christian People's Party in terms of the points of view of this case. I think it might be a good idea to clarify whether or not you agree with the Council of State, and if so, whether or not you will also support the recommendation of the majority from the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1106	As the Aarøen representative was inside, there was nothing of my argument that the Aarøen did not take up in his post, but there is also reason to say that it was part of the Arøen's argument that I did not have in my post. Thus, it is also said that there is no surprise that there is a disagreement between the Right and Christian People's Party in some areas of alcohol policy. It's one of the areas where I don't think anyone is surprised that the two government parties initially have different positions. Among other things, it's right that the representative Nesvik draws on, that in the Right Program one goes in so that one can sell wine in regular shops, even though not exactly that's my favorite point in the program. The right-wing opposition to the majority's proposal in the vote is due, as I stressed in my speech, to the fact that the right-wing opinion is that the purpose of which the majority is concerned, namely the availability of these goods in the districts, is well-managed by the arrangements that the Vinmonopolet has today. Nor should it be a surprise that the Council of State is in favour of following up on a majority position. It would be more surprising if the Council of State were not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1115	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2710]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1131	In recent years, we have placed great emphasis on road safety in this country and tried to improve it with various measures. Furthermore, we have placed great emphasis on developing an inclusive working life and on measures to better facilitate the active social participation of people with disabilities in working and other social life. Both of these objectives are affected by excessive practice of today's social welfare system with regard to disabled people and their car systems. This practice may, for example: means that those who have large travel distances and heavy wear on a car may remain with a road dangerous car, or not a motor vehicle, until 10 years have passed. In most cases, if a reasonable running distance is taken into account, it would be reasonable to have a 10-year recovery period. However, the length of each individual's journey may vary greatly, depending on the length of the journey and also the level of activity of the individual. It would not be in line with the intention of the law if rigid provisions were to stop the social and economic participation of individuals in social and private life – therefore the proposal to incorporate greater flexibility into the direction of the ministry. I am pleased with the positive attitude that the Department has shown in relation to this proposal, and I am pleased that a unanimous committee will also conclude on it. This would mean the development of new regulations concerning loans and supplements for the purchase of cars, in order to establish an exemption system for the time of re-purchase which takes into account the length, wear and tear of vehicles and their intended purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1138	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2710]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1154	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1163	Once again, society has failed in time to see the consequences of and prevent what we now experience as perhaps the greatest social and health problem among children and young people. The increase in the number of children and young people with drug problems and mental problems is explosive, and treatment is almost detonated. I therefore have no problems sharing the concerns of the proposers in relation to too long waiting for investigation and treatment of children and young people with drug problems and mental problems. In terms of treatment guarantee issues, we currently have a patient rights law that is age- and diagnostically dependent. The right to health care applies both to drug users and to mental health protection and to somatic care. To the extent that children and young people under 18 years of age with drug problems or mental health problems do not receive the health care they require, quickly enough, it is unfortunately much more often due to capacity problems in health services than lack of legislation. The capacity problem, grey zones and discharge in the healthcare system over many years show that the problems have not been taken seriously so far. In addition, school health services have been lowered over many years, while more and more young people are struggling with many and complex problems. It is also of concern when studies show that parents of drug users receive the best guidance and help from the police, and that the school system is the worst way out. In its Resolution on the fight against drugs, the Court of Justice therefore adopted that: ‘the school shall prevent drug abuse through factual information as part of compulsory education. There is a greater need to draw on external competences’. We will ensure school health services and the provision of health services for young people and ensure that cooperation between health centres, schools, homes and child protection is strengthened. The co-operation administration is very serious about the problems and, in the Sem Declaration, has stated that the Government should strengthen child and youth psychiatry and expand health care for high school students. In the mental health escalation plan, funds are earmarked for health centre and school health services at 800 years of work during the planning period. It should help to improve the provision of services to young people to prevent drug abuse, violence, bullying, stress and other psychological disorders. With the treatment pressure we have in the healthcare system today, it is very important that prevention measures in the health care service, better knowledge in school and cooperation at home can help to capture children and young people at the risk at the earliest opportunity. The co-operation administration considers such a commitment to be as important as providing a treatment guarantee, which will not work due to a lack of treatment capacity. It is very serious when the municipalities are as little aware as the Dagbladet refers to 7 May, where students at a secondary school in Nittedal are deprived of the nursing care because the municipality has to save money. I therefore hope that those responsible in the municipality will take the lead and restore important preventive resources. The government has announced that it will come back with a separate case on individual deadlines in the Patient Rights Act. In this context, the majority of the Committee would stress the importance of giving priority to children and young people with drug problems and mental problems. In addition, the Government has announced an action plan on drug problems. The plan, which will be presented to Stortinget for the autumn, will focus on both prevention and improved treatment provision for drug users. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, therefore find it not natural to introduce a diagnostic treatment guarantee at this stage. The majority therefore propose that the documents be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1192	The number of young people under the age of 18 seeking psychiatric treatment is increasing, and there is every reason to be concerned about it. Young people with mental problems, often in combination with drug problems, will, as the previous representative also pointed out, be one of the major challenges that Health-Norway will face. The working party fully agrees with the description of the demanding situation. The Labour Party also agrees that there is an urgent need to address the drug treatment situation and psychiatry for our young people, and that waiting times are unacceptable. We are also open to look at diagnostic-related treatment guarantees, but we will await the Government's notified report on drug protection. We don't think that's right through a Document No. Eight proposals to intervene in the adopted psychiatry plan now. When the 2002 state budget was discussed, the Labour Party was unable to speed up the plan, and we find it somewhat suspicious to make significant changes already in May. This is an area where we need high credibility because it's a user group that deserves it. When we do not find reason to intervene drastically in the psychiatry plan now, it is also because we assume that the Government follows the situation closely, and that this work is prioritised as the Government has indicated. We therefore have great expectations of the Government's notified report on drug protection. There is reason to recall that at the time we dealt with this suspension, enough was required for the Government to propose that healthcare for this group be transferred to the State. When the Government in revision postpones this, it creates uncertainty about both the time and the place of this treatment. It may also create problems for the group of people affected by this document. With regard to the Labour Party's position on this postponement, we will come back to it in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1201	At the outset, an overall social committee notes that there is a lack of capacity for mental health protection in the paediatric population and that there is much evidence that drug users do not receive the healthcare they need. This is a correct description of the current situation for children and young people with mental and youth problems with serious drug problems, or a combination of these. When a joint social committee acknowledges this, I would have expected the rest of the Committee's position to be more offensive and to point to concrete measures that could improve the situation for children and young people with mental health problems and young people with serious drug problems. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Unfortunately, it is only the Socialist Left Party, the Progress Party and the Central Party that promote concrete positive proposals in the vote, which unfortunately do not receive a majority. On behalf of the Advancement Party, I have been calling for a review of the Psychiatric Plan in various contexts over the past few years, in particular with regard to childhood and youth psychiatry, which is not keeping pace with the growing need for psychiatric treatment for children and young people, often in the context of drug abuse. In recent years, the Progress Party has also pointed out the very unfortunate fact that many municipalities have closed down the municipal health centres, which were of great importance to children and young people when it comes to prevention services and which were good observation posts that could early observe and monitor mental problems in children and young people. I fully agree with the intention of the two present document Nos. The 8 proposals, highlighting the long waiting time and the lack of availability of mental health services, both in the case of mental illness in children and young people, and not least in the case of the combination of drug use and mental disorders. When the majority in their comments in the vote refers to the Patient Rights Act, I find this striking and strange, because the majority knows just as well as I do that no Norwegian patient today – whether in psychiatry or somatics – has a legal right to treatment within a time limit set by the professional expert. The same majority as here represented in the vote also voted against the proposal of the Progress Party to make the Patient Rights Act legally binding on patients in relation to the time factor for treatment. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the Progress Party will have a majority of the proposals in the vote, to which two other parties have joined, namely that the development of the psychiatric district centres should be completed a little earlier than that proposed in the plan, namely in 2004, two years before the actual deadline. In view of the fundamental views of the Progress Party on the legal right to be dealt with within specified time limits, we will support proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, to introduce a six-week treatment guarantee for psychiatric treatment for children and adolescents under 18 years of age. This we believe is absolutely necessary to have done now, at this time, and not wait and still expose children and young people to a serious disease that can only build on itself, and that can ultimately make these people totally out of work. I am addressing the proposals on which the Progress Party is with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1218	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1221	Children and young people with psychiatric disorders and young drug users belong to one of the patient groups that SV believes should be given absolute priority in the provision of treatment in the Norwegian healthcare system. The current situation, with an average waiting time for psychiatric treatment between three and four months for children and young people, is not acceptable for SV at all. These figures have been given in a letter dated 22 March this year from the Minister of Health to the SV Storingsgruppe. The reasons for this must be quite obvious: the waiting time increases human suffering. It reinforces the problems young people face. It makes treatment more difficult when it arrives at a later stage, and in its ultimate consequence it can lead to the death of young people in the event of overdoses and suicides. The increase in referrals in paediatric psychiatry increased by a total of 22 pst. from 2000 to 2001, according to the same letter from the Minister of Health. This is a very high number and gives us yet another reason to make a strong effort in this part of the healthcare system in time to come. The same applies to the provision and treatment of young drug users. Treatment capacity and competence also appear to be insufficient here, while we see an increase in drug use. In this context, I would like to refer to, for example: Telmark, who expressed considerable concern in its 2001 medical report about the increase in drugrelated health problems among young people. When we also see that the reform under the extended responsibility of the healthcare system for drug users will be postponed because health businesses do not have the capacity to deal with this group of patients, this gives added cause for concern. Therefore, in this case, SV has proposed to introduce a treatment guarantee for psychiatric treatment within six weeks for children and adolescents under 18 years of age and follow-up and treatment for young drug users within three weeks. There may be doubts as to whether such a guarantee will be effective, and whether our treatment will be able to satisfy such a guarantee. I see that objection. However, SV believes that the introduction of a treatment guarantee by itself will be a means of forcing an extra effort in terms of both capacity and competence in child and youth psychiatry. We are continuing with the Progress Party and the Centre on a proposal to support the development of district psychiatric centres and outpatient clinics, so that this effort can be completed by the end of 2004. This will also be an important measure to improve treatment capacity in general psychiatry and in particular child and youth psychiatry, thus making this part of treatment more capable of fulfilling such a guarantee as we want. This is also a matter which, for SV, will have top priority in the treatment of revised this spring. John Alvheim has already addressed the proposals that we share with the Progress Party and the Center Party on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1236	It has been established from an overall committee that there is a lack of capacity in mental health services in particular for children and young people, and also that in the area of drug abuse there is a need for much greater provision of services, not least in the area of health services. We know that these areas are covered by several laws. It is the Health Services Act – with patient rights law as part of it, although some representatives believe that patient rights legislation is not a real law today – that is the Social Services Act, and for some children there is also child protection and legislation in the context of it. This means that there is a relatively high gap between the public sector and the public sector responsibility to be exercised in order to capture those in need of assistance. It is true that during the last year, there has been a clear signal that much more of the responsibility for drug users, young people and the elderly is going to the health service and is ultimately the responsibility of the Minister of Health. We have joined this, but clearly see the need for interaction between health, social services, social services and child protection. It is in this picture that we are now trying to promote and perhaps provoke a debate whether it is not now time to bring about a more well-functioning public system, so that these young, unhappy people and their families do not become caste balls in a system that takes too long and that is not there when the motivation is there – in the drug user, or in the person with mental problems – for a treatment system. It's in the picture that it's really urgent to get a treatment offer. We know that despite bets, not least within psychiatry, these waiting lists are increasing, and we know that 96 pst. waiting for outpatient treatment, for outpatient consultation. It's pretty amazing. It is by no means acceptable to do so. That's why it's urgent to get an offer that can come in faster, give these people and their families help before it's gone too long, before the abuse -- it's heavy drug users we're talking about -- has evolved so that the treatment system and rehabilitation are facing a completely different promise to get these out of the hell they're getting into through drug abuse. It is also clear that we have a lack of capacity today, and as seen, perhaps a treatment guarantee in weeks and months is illusory for some. But we want to point this out and get a move on in the systems that now apply. As regards the psychiatry plan, we believe, as both the representatives of the Progress Party and SV have said before, that we must now have a review of it, and it must be continued, among other things. this with district psychiatric centres and outpatient clinics, so that at least that capacity can be increased immediately. The representative of the Right was present at the National Council of the Right and its resolutions, including the following: as regards the need for school health services, and that many such offers have been abandoned recently. It may have something to do with the local economy, and then I think it is important that we remember ourselves – and not least that the government remembers itself – that the local economy is important if there are to be useful services in the districts where people live. I also think it is important to point out the need for health station services and, as we have said in this setting, that the health centre can follow children up in growth and quickly intervene and address problems. It is health centres that in very many local settings have the very best overview. Furthermore, the proposals we have made have been raised by the representatives of Alvheim and Molvik. I hope that there could be more people joining them, at least when it is now signaled by the Workers' Party that they will come back to the revised national budget. There's only days left. Therefore, perhaps some of the facts could also be involved in dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1253	Let me start by saying that I fully share the impatience expressed here in the Chamber in terms of improving the treatment provision for the groups we are talking about here. In the Sem Declaration, the government has announced several measures to improve patients’ rights. It follows from the declaration that the Government will: «the right to treatment of statutory patients within individual time limits laid down on a medical basis. If the deadline is not met, the patient shall be offered treatment by private institutions or abroad for the account of the public.’» Such a proposal would further strengthen the right to necessary health care. Furthermore, I point out that the government in the Sem-Declaration announces that it will make proposals to allow the free hospital choice to include private, approved hospitals. I intend to make the necessary proposals for the Storting in line with these statements. The government will also improve patient rights information to ensure that patients can claim their rights. However, like the majority of the Committee, I would like to ask you to adopt the proposals put forward in Document No. 8:43 and Document No 8:92. In my view, to the extent that young and new drug users and children and young people with mental health problems do not receive the healthcare to which the Patient Rights Act gives them the right, this problem must be resolved primarily by increasing capacity and not by introducing specific treatment guarantees for these groups. I therefore believe that continuing commitment in these areas, in addition to the general improvement of the patient rights law, is the best way to provide these groups with the help they need and demand. I share the concern of the majority of people about the current situation, and I point out that these areas are given high priority by the Government. The Patient Rights Act states that patients are entitled to the necessary health care from the municipal health service and specialist health care. The regulation on the right to health care and the prioritisation of health care provide for this. It follows from the regulation that patients entitled to the necessary health care should be offered this within the time limit required by medical care. The right to health care concerns both mental health protection and somatic and drug users who need it. The conditions for entitlement to health care relate to the severity of the condition, the benefits and cost-effectiveness of treatment, and not to diagnosis or age. The legal system is therefore that each patient has the right to the necessary health care within a sound time frame based on an individual medical assessment. Establishing specific legal guarantees of treatment for specific patient groups or treatment modalities could lead to non-compliance with the principle of non-discrimination on which the Patient Rights Act is based. A general treatment guarantee for a specified group could result in minor cases being dealt with as a matter of urgency in case of more serious cases. Furthermore, it is an important point that the Patient Rights Act should be a real right law and, as I said, the Government will make proposals that will make it a more real right law than it is today. The group referred to here is already entitled to the necessary health care and to the assistance within sound medical time-limits. If a person with a treatment guarantee is to extend the right to health care, an intervention in the priority system on which the Patient Rights Act is based and which was given precisely to ensure the most serious cases of first treatment. The introduction of a specific treatment guarantee for one group will further break the legal system and thus make the legislation more comprehensive and complex. It can be bureaucratic. The tracks in this area are frightening after my vision. The Roadmap for Mental Health strongly supports the development of interventions to help children and young people with mental health problems. Efforts have been made to ensure that the capacity of mental health protection for children and young people is covered by 5 pst. by the children and young people under 18 years of age in 2006. The number of children and young people receiving treatment from mental health protection has increased from 20 600 in 1998 to 26 400 at the end of 2000, i.e. an increase of 28 pst. in two years. This means that the coverage has increased from 1.9 pst. up to 2.5 pst. during the same period, see: the target of a coverage of 5 pst. the completion of the escalating plan. I believe that there is a need for a stronger priority for children and young people within the escalation plan, and will show that I have imposed it on the municipalities through the allocation of earmarked funds this year. The same message has been given to health businesses. In addition, two missions are being launched by the Social and Health Directorate. One is to create a more targeted strategy for child and youth mental health. In addition, it is working on updating the escalation plan that the representative, Mr Alvheim, has today requested. From the turn of the year, I have assumed a greater responsibility for health care for drug users. My goal is to strengthen healthcare within this group, as well as clarifying responsibilities and coherence throughout the treatment chain. In this context, the Directorate for Social and Health has been tasked with reviewing and proposing improvement measures in the provision of health services to drug users. State acquisition of the specialist health service from 1 January of this year also includes measures for drug users, which are provided for by the Special Health Service Act. In the governance papers of regional health companies, I have to assume that they have to ensure that drug users have access to institutions for drug addicts, which are regulated by the Special Health Service Act. Furthermore, they must ensure that drug users have access to the necessary health services in the ordinary specialist healthcare services. I also point out that the Ministry of Social Affairs has recently consulted on a proposal to transfer parts of the county municipality's responsibility for drug abuse to the state. The proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget over the summer. In addition, the government is working on an action plan on drug problems. The plan will focus on both prevention and improved treatment provision for drug users. The plan will be presented to Stortinget for the autumn. There has apparently been something wrong with the clock here, but I just want to conclude by saying that I believe that the main strategy in these important issues is and must be to expand the capacity, ensure a better connection in the treatment chain and ensure that the rights you have in today's patient rights law are actually fulfilled. We will then make proposals for the legal strengthening of those rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1282	Yes, as the Council of State noticed, the time here has gone wrong. The president's sorry. It'll be a string change – first John I. Alvheim. Alvheim has a speaking time of up to 2 minutes, so we'll try our best to keep track of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1290	First of all, I have a few comments. If the majority in the Grand Duchy had recently voted in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party to amend the Patient Rights Act, the proposal from the minority today would have been superfluous. So the Health Minister says that it's unfair to go in and set deadlines for some groups of patients, because then you can easily ignore the serious cases. My claim is: A child with mental disorders is in a serious life situation. It's got to be firm. The question I had for the Minister of Health was about the health centre and the nursing care service. Does the Minister for Health have an overview of which municipalities have ceased this service or where this service does not work? And in case, what will the Minister of Health do to get this service back in place in the municipalities as quickly as possible? For the health centre, as many have said here, there is a very good observation point to follow in the development of mental disorders, and not least in the use of drugs among children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1301	The President shall give the floor to the Council of State Højbrötten. And now it looks like the clock works up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1304	Let me say that I fully agree with the representative Alvheim that children suffering from mental illness have a serious health situation and will be prioritised within the priority criteria that apply under the Patient Rights Act with regulations. The point is that it is seriousness that must be the guiding principle, not what age group you are in, or what diagnosis you have. I think the whole healthcare system is actually worth it, but above all, I think the patients and the sufferers are good at it. In the case of health centres, there is a statutory task in the area of municipal health services. Such healthcare shall be provided in all municipalities in accordance with the provisions of the law. I have recently registered that some municipalities, including a municipality that has been mentioned earlier in the debate here has gone to the stage of leaving the school health service, which is part of the same legal activity. I would warn you very strongly against that, and I assume that the county doctors as supervisory authorities are actually following up this, which I would say is a clearly irregular development. In the escalation plan, we have earmarked funds for municipal efforts to prevent mental health problems, and health centres are part of it. And we intend to follow up on the fact that the municipalities actually strengthen the health station business and do not weaken it. We will follow that up in reporting on the escalation plan, and in fact, I think it is very wise to invest in this zero line that health stations are in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1315	The Council of State says that it scares him to grant a single group special rights – it violates the principle of equality. What scares me is that there are no offers, because these children and young people are not being treated. There are several counties who have up to one and a half years waiting for psychiatric treatment and who do not have treatment places for children and adolescents under 18 years of age. Child protection decides on treatment according to its legislation, but there is no room for treating these young people. Does the Council of State mean that children are entitled to treatment? And does he think it is the municipality's or county municipality's economy to govern children's right to treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1322	If this were the case, as the representative Hansen now said, that there are no offers, it would not help to adopt a guarantee. It just illustrates my main point: that you have to expand the offer and make sure that what is adopted in this room is actually implemented. That's the government's main strategy. Now it is not that there are no offers. The level of supply is increasing, and we have seen in the early years of the escalation plan that there is an increase in the number of children and young people treated at 28 pst. What is serious is that the supply is increasing, but that the needs are increasing even more. That is why I have announced a stronger priority for children and young people within the means of the plan of escalation, both in relation to the responsibilities of the local government sector and in relation to health businesses. It is precisely because it should not depend on local economy alone that the Stortinget has adopted earmarked funds for the local government sector in this area. In the case of the government entities responsible for the specialist health service, the funds have also been earmarked for this purpose by the undertakings and will be closely followed, in proportion to that, at the cost of crowns. Children with mental disorders are entitled to treatment, but there is nothing, even the emperor has lost his right. That's why it's necessary to expand the capacity to a greater extent than we have the power to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1331	The debate is starting to get into an interesting track, because now we're talking about the emperor's rights. Perhaps we can compare Stortinget and the government's rights to the emperor's, because where there is nothing, there is nothing to be done about it either – and it is very much related to a general community economy. It does not help with earring if you do not have a general municipal economy so that the municipality can follow up on a broad basis. The supply is increasing, said the Minister of Health, but the need is increasing even more. It is then quite clear that increasing capacity means increasing resources – economics, personnel, places and concrete physical services, such as housing, work, education, etc. That means that there's a broader range than just what's inside the psychiatry plan and ear-marked drugs, that's what's going on. I want to ask the Minister of Health about something he clearly has the primary responsibility for. We have been signaled that within health businesses and regions, it has now been announced that the DPS system, i.e. district psychiatric centres, should not be expanded to the extent and at the rate previously agreed by the county authorities. Is there room for – within the economic framework set out by the Government in St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002 on the economy and budget of the specialist healthcare service 2002 — to expand the district psychiatric centres as previously adopted in some counties, and such a psychiatry plan should be followed up? The same may apply to outpatient capacity. Then I missed a little in relation to this with increased interaction. Increased capacity is easy to talk about here, at least if resources are not deployed at the same time, but more interaction is also needed – not only between the health sector and social action, but also in relation to child protection. Will the new plan contain all these factors when it comes back from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1342	I'm, like the representative of the Center Party, very concerned with an overall commitment to these groups. I believe that the escalation plan for mental health is actually one of the most comprehensive health plans ever made. It covers everything from housing, work and cultural services to prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. The government is also committed to following up the new provisions on individual plans, which are based on interaction between the various public authorities responsible for providing something in relation to people with complex needs and needs over a longer period of time. It is, in my view, the most important tool for creating such an interaction that the representative called for. Then to the economy. The government has put forward a proposition for strengthening the economy of enterprises. We have placed the emphasis on strengthening the basic appropriations for enterprises, precisely because we see that this is necessary to ensure those parts of the enterprises' activities that are not price-funded through the ISF scheme. Psychiatry is an important part of it. The treatment provision for drug users in specialised health services is another part of it. As far as the development of DPS is concerned, according to what I have been informed, 29 new such district psychiatric centres have been realized – another 32 are in operation, but need to be expanded more. Then it remains to expand 17 district psychiatric centers in relation to these plans. We have clearly informed health companies that they should keep pace and pace of development so that the objectives of the escalation plan can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1353	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1358	Both Documents No The 8 proposals are concerned with preventing and improving the situation of children and young people in order to provide early help. Serious consequences, such as overdose deaths and suicides, are identified if children and adolescents do not receive the necessary help and treatment at an early stage. The Christian People's Party shares this concern and is pleased with the great consensus there is on the Stortingen to increase the bet on just psychiatry and care for children and young people under 18. An interpellant debate a short time ago confirmed this, and it is again underlined in the debate today. The Christian People's Party does not agree with the proposers that there is a lack of legislation that is why children and young people who have drug problems or mental health problems do not get the help they need. We believe that this is a capacity problem, and that it is important that a commitment still exists in this field. In order to fulfil the intention of the Road Health Stepping Plan, there is an important signal from the Government in the revised national budget as one increases the basic allocation of hospitals so that psychiatry can be strengthened. In line with the Sem Declaration, the Government will legislate patients’ right to treatment within individual deadlines set on a medical basis. The conditions for such a right relate to seriousness, benefits and cost-effectiveness of the treatment. So these conditions are not intended to cover a particular age group or specific diagnosis. Individual consideration shall be given. The Christian People's Party believes that it is going to be wrong to intervene in the priority system on which the Patient Rights Act is based, and we will therefore not support the proposals. We will continue to fight to increase the capacity of the treatment chain and see the need to invest extra in health centres so that problems can be caught at an early stage. It is important to prevent, so that no child or young person comes into such a life crisis as Document No. The 8-proposals describe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1367	The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, do not consider it natural that a treatment guarantee be introduced at this stage, despite the fact that the Committee finds today's treatment provision in the field of care and psychiatry, especially for children and young people, too poor. The Committee further points out that consultations in the field of mental health protection have increased by 22 pst. from 1998 to 2000. It is also referred to that there is an average waiting time of more than three months. The waiting time is different from state to state, and some states have bigger problems and worse finances than others. Eastfold County, for example, from which I come, has a waiting time of up to a year and a half for consultations on mental health protection, and has no institutional facilities for drug users under the age of 18. This is unacceptable. It is of little help that the Committee refers to the Patient Rights Act, because we know that the offer is not good enough. Children and adolescents do not receive adequate treatment early enough. Last week in the United Nations there was a special session for children — a historic session, where children had the right to speak for the first time in the United Nations. I was there, and it was a very strong experience to be present and hear children from all over the world asking for an understanding of their rights. Norway stands out as the country with good aid policy and the country that takes the Children’s Convention seriously. But do we? Children have rights, established by this Convention. Children are entitled to treatment, and it is necessary to assess the negative development of violence and drug use in Norway. We have more overdose deaths than comparable countries. Early treatment could prevent negative developments. Let's stop partying in the UN and elsewhere – let's do it! That's what kids from all over the world asked us to do. The Committee denies responsibility in the event of a postponement, and the consequences are both for the children themselves and others. The result is the development of violence and killing in our country. I come from a town in Eastfold called Moss, which has had three killings in four weeks. Finally, the Council of State: you can't wait for an extension of the offer, you have to give children a right that requires municipalities and counties, despite the economy, to make an offer. We need to increase our effort. Many people have been involved in this with health stations. Health centres are constantly discovering this problem, but there is nowhere to send these children to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1384	I am very pleased with what the Minister for Health said, but at the same time I think that this debate too ends with what debates often do here. That's what the emperor's right was, that it's also lost where there's nothing. If the government believes that they have the right to demand, for example: The municipalities should do this and so on, and the municipalities – for the sake of county councils – so do not have resources until it is a lost cause. It is a lost cause if the resources to carry out and fulfil what is required by the central authorities are not present. At best, the focus is on the matter through a black player game, where Kommune-Norge and the individual municipality are blackmailed, and those who need treatment, help and action become the real losers. The last speaker mentioned Eastfold states and the developments in waiting times there. There are municipalities and municipalities in the same state that are now rather frustrated that fine objectives in the psychiatry plan are not being followed up with resources, so that plans that the municipalities have can be put into practice. In addition, I expect that, although there are many issues and the time needed for the summer vacation, we will come back several times and have ample opportunity to debate the economy of health businesses. Because I'm afraid the requirements and intentions are also there at a completely different level than what the resources are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1396	There may be differing views on guarantee schemes to ensure treatment within specified time limits. But after the letter that we sent to the Department some time ago in connection with the hospital economy proposition, I noticed the answer we received from the Council of State – and the Government – when it was just waiting time related to the treatment of children and young people. While in adult psychiatry today we have an average of about. 54 days waiting for specialist treatment or evaluation is as much waiting time as approx. 100 days – 97 days are specified in the letter from the Council of State — in the case of children and young people. Regardless of what one might think of a guarantee scheme, 97 days are very long. This means that some children who are in crisis or who have severe mental disorders at a growth stage where they are affected have to wait on average for more than three months for treatment. I think that most people who are concerned about strengthening the treatment offer may agree that it is too long. And if there's something like the letter from the Council of State in my view – and SVs – that reveals, it's that child and youth psychiatry is, if not a neglected one – you have to be careful about using the word – area, so at least an area where there is a need for more resources. What is also questionable is whether the description given by the Council of State in the case of waiting lists is entirely correct. Is it due to the fact that the waiting time has not fallen further than before being referred to? Maybe that's the way it is, but maybe it's that total capacity has been way too bad for too long, and that as politicians we should say, we've neglected the group that is perhaps the most vulnerable, and where the effort will give the most benefit. Many adults with mental disorders will be able to benefit greatly from community care, for example: by a psychiatric nurse or by his or her permanent staff, because the issues are known. You can get advice on treatment, and your condition doesn't necessarily change very much over time. It is different for children and young people, precisely because the growth phase causes the condition to change rapidly, and that if you do not get help, much more will be affected by your illness than in adults. That's why I might be asking for the personal commitment of the Council of States to say, "No matter what the guarantee scheme is, we're going to go in and do something about this, and we're going to do it quickly, because we can't accept this."
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1407	I don't think that the representative Ballo would have taken his mouth too full if he had said that child and youth psychiatry is a neglected area. I mean that. And that's why I've taken several initiatives to give children and young people a higher priority in the escalation of the mental health service that the Stortinget has adopted. First, the municipality has been informed that at least 20 pst. of the earmarked funds they receive must go to children and young people. So far, the percent is just 13. Secondly, companies have been informed that they should give priority to children and young people in the framework of the escalation plan and that the funds of the escalation plan should be used for mental health, nothing else. They have also been informed that the development of the treatment offer should be kept up, in line with the assumptions of the plan. And last – but not least – in this regard, in the growth proposition on the health business economy, we have made clear developments that will be followed up against businesses, and strengthened the basic funding of enterprises, which is the main basis for financing specialised health services for people with mental disorders. The representative Ballo has to call it what he wants, but to me it's actually a deep, personal commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2710]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1432	Reading the National Audit Office reports is often a guarantee that as a politician it is definitely not possible to sleep away the summer nights. In this way, the National Audit Office’s investigation of the somatic hospital input-driven funding is not an exception, but confirms the general rule. The lack of control in this report has up to several faces. Several hospitals have lacked focus on both productivity, cost indicators, use of personnel, quality of treatment and efficiency of operating rooms. In addition, the quality of medical records has been under any criticism, which may affect the extent to which different patient groups are treated. Every third of the patients surveyed have been registered with an incorrect main diagnosis. This, in turn, has led to payments of errors by the country, in the form that it has been paid too much in some cases and too little in others. The Committee notes that the study is based on a small number of diagnostics and that the measurement year was 1999 – a year when significant changes were made to the ISF. The study has also not detected systematic misregistration with consequences for which the DRG patient is to be placed. But it is mildly alarming when one of the hospitals in the investigation because of error registration has a department that got 23 pst. too little in reimbursement. The Committee notes that hospitals are now operating as 100 pst. state-owned health establishments, with one regional health undertaking in each region. For the time being, the main structure of the current financial instrument will also be continued before the public body proposing a future financing system will make its recommendations by the New Year's Eve this year. But there's no need to wait to open the champagne and take the wave for an improved version of the ISF system. The Committee assumes that the Ministry will follow up and pay the necessary attention to this study, which the Ministry in its reply to the Riksrevision will otherwise respond to. In particular, the Committee calls for appropriate measures to be taken by the Ministry to improve medical records in hospitals in order to achieve better consistency between costs and actual hospital treatment activities. As I said, hospitals are now state-owned through the ownership reform they have carried out. Another important premise is to build on the ISF as a funding system. The report shows that treatment capacity has actually increased during the period, although the lack of routines in hospitals has caused this growth not to occur within planned offers, but primarily in the treatment of immediate help patients. SV has obviously read newspapers and the principal programme more closely than the report itself, as this is skillfully overlooked. Rather, emphasis is placed on ‘some individual matters in the press’ and is ‘convinced’ that competition is unhealthy and rather prevents what SV wants; the pleasant word ‘cooperation’. The waiting lists that have been held for years are precisely the result of this pleasant cooperation between state politicians, monopolistic hospitals and the sleep cushion budget in the form of framework funding. Enough about it, we're going to have a little bit of fun in all the creeps that the report contains. I'm going to end with something that a unanimous committee has noticed in particular, namely how the ISF has turned out differently for states with different income bases because of a distorted income system. Counties such as Eastfold, Hordaland, and not least my own county, Akershus, have low free incomes, and thus have had to finance more than others the increased treatment by increasing their deficits. The report also shows that low-income counties have had better reporting practices than other high-income counties. If this is an example of ‘necessary teaching naked women to spin’, I don’t want to speculate in, but that this combined with growth problems creates new demands for these states and the municipalities in them, is raised above any doubt. The Committee assumes that due attention will be given to this when the Government is to submit its own major urban message. The attention given to the fact that, for example: the central eastern region does not exactly run over sugar and honey because of the income system, I would definitely not call it a 'Bondesvik', rather on the contrary: that is what I would call justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1453	The input-driven funding of hospitals was introduced in 1997. The background was Stortinget's treatment of St.melding. No 44 for 1995-96, Waiting time guarantee – criteria and funding. The main objective of the ISF was to increase the treatment activity of somatic hospitals in the country, to increase efficiency and reduce unnecessary waiting. In the years that followed, there have been many rounds in the Grand Duchy about the scheme, especially because the DRG scrupulous led to a reduction in payment and a great deal of frustration in the county municipalities. The DRG creep has now been removed and the ISF fraction has increased to 55 pst. The purpose of the Riksrevision study has been to elucidate whether ISF has contributed to increasing treatment activity in hospitals and whether ISF has reinforced the differences in treatment provision between county municipalities. It has been assessed whether the management information is organised in such a way that an activity-based system can function according to its intention. Furthermore, the quality of medical records in hospitals relevant to reimbursement from the State has been examined. The National Audit Office’s survey has been conducted with a survey of somatic hospitals. The medical records of three hospitals have been examined, and they have been assisted by the Health Administration Centres at the University of Oslo and the Competence Centre for IT in Health Services AS. The study has shown that ISF alone has contributed to increased treatment activity in hospitals. However, there have been shortcomings in overall ownership and governance, and medical registration practices have not been satisfactory. A wide-ranging selection with a comprehensive mandate has now been set up to look at the financial instrument. They shall be completed by the end of this year. The report shows that treatment activity has increased, but this is mainly due to the number of treatment for immediate help patients. The planned activity has been somewhat reduced during the period examined. Few hospitals have adequately focused on the bottlenecks. The weaknesses identified in the report must be followed up by the Ministry. The report does not show that the ISF system has so far gone beyond the chroniclers, as some have been concerned about. The working party and SV stress in a note that a further increase that the ISF share can cause it to go beyond the chroniclers, even if it has not done so now. It has been pointed out that management reports are important guidance documents, but unfortunately they lack important factors, such as productivity indicators, cost indicators, use of personnel, quality and use of operating rooms. The information contained in the report dates from 1999. It's based on a small number of diagnostics and a smaller number of hospitals. Misregistration has resulted in incorrect settlement of some hospitals. In the future, there will have to be a registration that will ensure better consistency between real costs and the financing of hospital operations. Hospitals are responsible for cost control, follow-up and management. Appropriate IT tools are important to achieve this. The economy of the counties has deteriorated since 1997. Those with the highest growth in treatment activities after the ISF introduction have had the biggest problems. Some counties have had a particularly low level of income on free income. According to the National Audit Office’s survey, these have a higher labour productivity and a lower cost level than other counties. The reporting procedures are partly more precise in these counties. It is suggested that increased patient treatment is funded by impaired financial performance, which is a challenge for the states concerned. Meeting here as an alternate today means that I have not been allowed to follow the process of this report in the committee. The review of such a report is important and useful, but it is also the follow-up to the budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy in such areas as this. I refer you to the Budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2001-2002, chap. 730 heading 70, where a unanimous committee underlines ‘the need for an ongoing evaluation of all aspects of the response-driven funding system. The system must be assessed and updated in line with changes in medical technology and treatment options». Furthermore, a unanimous committee in the budget procedure before Christmas said: ‘Although research has shown that there is no basis for claiming that patients with chronic and complex disorders have experienced a worse outcome after the ISF system has been introduced, the system effect must be closely monitored throughout’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1487	I am not sure if I could fully follow the opinion of the rapporteur when he spoke of having it ‘shy in all the horrors contained in this report’. But at least I think that the rapporteur's assessment of the report was more BI-inspired than health professionals. For me, it is clear that this is important in terms of health and quality of treatment when we look at the ISF scheme, when we look at how economics and funding affect the quality of our hospitals and in the hospital treatment within the specialist health services. It is worrying to note that many of our hospital managers lack information about the operation and what affects it. This concerns in particular ‘resource use information, waiting list patients and quality of treatment’, as stated in the dossier. It worries me very much. There should be a better overview of it to look at both how we use our resources and the effectiveness of the treatment system, but not least we should have something like measured treatment quality and what the patient has received from treatment, whether it is that he is rehabilitated and can go back to a full life. So a little bit about the ISF system and effects in relation to just this. The Centre Party shall have no representative on the Control and Constitutional Committee. I would therefore like to make some comments on this and on a comment made by the members of the Committee of the Socialist Left, stating ‘that the operation of hospitals must be as predictable as possible, and that a greater proportion of the funding today should therefore be provided through framework funding’. At least the ISF share must not be higher than it is now. It is clear that framework transfers and predictability mean a lot. I refer to what the Minister of Health also said on the previous matter we were dealing with, this with the basic economy. It is very important for all groups to receive their offers, and it is an emphasis on the fact that the basic economy covers most of the tasks that healthcare businesses are now required to deal with and are responsible for: ensuring that all patients receive adequate treatment and follow-up, regardless of diagnosis and treatment cost. I am afraid that over-focusing on input-driven funding and on effectiveness and patient groups based on such a funding mechanism will place too much emphasis on what a patient is worth, or whether he is profitable for the institution, rather than looking at the severity of the disease and how quickly it should be treated. It may apply to patients with chronic or complicated diagnosis for treatment, and not least to a large group of elderly people with complex disorders. This is a large proportion of the patient group in total today, and it will be even larger. That is why we need to ensure that older people also receive treatment and a follow-up that has the same priority as other groups, and then I believe that the effort-driven funding is a dangerous way to build on far too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1499	In this room there are several versions of a certain person who reads — and hears — a certain book in up to several ways. That's a little bit of a fundamentally different way of thinking about it. I have a question for SV, if there are any representatives from there left in the hall here. Does SV think it is positive or negative that the ISF has contributed to increasing treatment capacity in Norwegian hospitals in isolation and overall, as this report reveals? I don't think it necessarily has anything to do with BI thinking. What the report shows is that there may be a need to check whether the health professional competence is good enough, when you can misdiagnoses and repeatedly place in the wrong DRG. I could imagine that SV, who honours the excellence of the framework funding, could explain here why the framework funding would lead to a better result for Norwegian hospitals than what this report shows has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1513	Should Ola D. Glötvold answer the line?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1516	I think I have to answer for a manifest misunderstanding, because I do not represent the party SV, and I did not find anything in the question to the case rapporteur who went to my post. But as far as framework funding is concerned, I want to answer for my own part: Framework funding is a strengthening of the basic economy, and if the representative André Dahl goes back to the previous case, he will also see that the Minister of Health said that the basic economy is very important for all groups of health and social services to be cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1521	Then it should be clear. Let's move on to the ordinary list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1526	We are currently processing an audit report in relation to hospital operations and input-based financing of hospital operations. The report from the National Audit Office is as a rule thorough and comprehensive analytical, and points to both negative and positive aspects of hospital operations for the period we are now talking about. Anyone who has read this message should at my discretion admit to themselves and others that it was high time that we had a state ownership of the operation of the public hospitals. What remains in this message is that hospitals have operated without management and management in very many cases and over a long time. The board that the directors thought they had, they haven't had. They have been the administrators of the county council's detailed management of the hospitals. The result then had to be as it has been, that there has not been an overview of the operation or that there has been an opportunity for economic governance – in fact, there has not been an overview of economic governance – so that too much money has been given and too little money has been given in relation to the ISF system. It says something about the quality of the administrative and organisational part of our hospital operations until January of this year. And it's clear that we, who have sworn to a state ownership and company model, have expectations that we will now have a management and an organisation in hospitals where the patient is primarily involved, and also of financial management and organisation in a good way, to get the most out of the health funds. The main reason why I took the floor is that this audit report explicitly sets out a very important point, which I think the opponents of input-based funding should bear in mind. According to the horror scenarios we heard about when it came to input-based funding, only the income-generating patients who received treatment, the chroniclers and the seriously ill were put on hold. And what matters most to me in this report from the Riksrevision, is that it documents the very opposite. There has been no emigration in the hospitals where people have thought about economics and easily earned money on patients with good income. Rather, it is shown and documented in this communication that this has not been done by the hospitals, that they have followed good medical and moral ethics by taking care of the worst patients. So don't let me or anyone else in the future hear any suggestion from some political parties here in the house that until today have claimed that hospitals have benefited from the «light» patients that provide the best income, and that the worst patients have been put on hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1538	It seems that some of the problem when debating the report from the Riksrevision is that one chooses to interpret into the report its own basic political vision, in a direction that I cannot see that there is coverage for in the report at all. And there are substantial objections from the National Audit Office to many of the effects of input-based funding. Descriptions include: how the growth of the so-called DRG points has increased more than the number of days of treatment, and it is only when you start to go behind a part of the current registration that you see that this can be distortive effects. You also have several times in other contexts, such as: from SINTEF Unimed, showed how, if such a word can be used, productivity in the hospital sector has been growing to a small extent and has perhaps even stagnated in recent years, even after the introduction of input-driven funding. That the input-driven funding has distortive effects is quite obvious. One of the things that amazes me most in relation to the warmest defenders of the effort-driven funding, also in relation to André Dahl here, is that one argues as if it didn't have it. Why introduce a system that should not lead to changes in patient treatment? It's obvious that this leads to change. Therefore, the answer to André Dahl’s question is that there are positive effects of the input-driven funding, not least in areas that are suitable for input-driven funding, where a rapid diagnosis can be made, where it is not a complex disease picture – one should have treated a certain number of patients in a short time. Heart surgery, as one example, is well suited for input-driven financing, and you wind up every queue because you get a total capacity that's large enough. On the other hand, what is not particularly suitable for input-driven funding are complex disease conditions with many parallel diagnoses. Drug users with psychiatric disorders are not suitable for a treatment where they should be brought in and out quickly, and then the income should be based on a kind of average of what it costs to treat them. Today, in psychiatry, as we mentioned at the time of the previous case, there is a waiting time of more than 50 days in adult psychiatry and 100 days in childhood and youth psychiatry. As if it weren't worrying! I think some of the problem with respect to some of the arguments you get here is that you don't take inward that such a system also has negative effects. What I think is interesting – I heard John I. Alvheim here earlier – is that, for example, the Progress Party on the one hand argues as if it would be wise to introduce a system of 100 pst. effort-based, on which the same party starts to argue in the next round that we need more funding through the research framework, and we need to ensure education. Of course we must! How do you ensure that? Yes, via a framework-based funding. What makes it visible is that you have to have a system that balances this against each other. I also think that the rapporteur did not at all get caught up in his main post. Even if you had to go for a type of funding system that promotes efforts in certain areas – a system that is otherwise EN too; it's completely wrong when the case rapporteur says that SV is absolutely opposed to such a system, the question is just how to dose that system – you don't have to get involved in implementing it to the absurd, so that you finally get back with groups that fall completely outside and that aren't being taken care of. It seems to me with respect to reporting that the rapporteur and the majority who have commented here do not capture the weaknesses of the effort-driven funding. I think that in the Riksrevision's comments, there are estimates of criticism of this system which, in the form of a comment, are not taken up. For example, as regards the introduction of the ISF, it is noted that the recording of patient-care diagnostics is not satisfactory. It's very central. If it is that you get distortion effects related to the input-driven funding that makes it impossible for us to use the diagnosis that is recorded in Norwegian hospitals to identify the kind of disease range that we have in the population, it is very serious. If it's become a tool that means you only get paid money if you apply one diagnosis, but not another, and then it doesn't really say anything about the disease panorama, it's very serious. There is therefore no comment here and not mentioned by the rapporteur. It is therefore easy to say that the Riksrevision conclusion is that the deployment of input-driven funding is clearly positive. The emergence of a growth in treatment activity that is particularly linked to diagnosis and not necessarily to the number of patients or the duration of their involvement also makes it apparent that we have a problem of effectiveness in the Norwegian hospital sector, even after the introduction of input-driven funding. The consequences of who is to be printed, how early they should be printed, what kind of apparatus they have to receive in the municipalities, also make a problem visible. This is with respect to notifying the rapporteur of the case, a crossing on the surface without addressing the real issues raised by the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1553	It is an important matter that is being dealt with here today. Intervention-driven funding has accounted for a large proportion of hospital funding in recent years and will form a large part of the financing of the new enterprises in the future. There are several aspects to which focus is central: firstly, the effects of ISF on the treatment activity, secondly, medical registration practices in hospitals, thirdly, the management, follow-up and control of hospital operations under the ISF scheme, and, more generally, the need for better management and organisation of the establishments. I add that close to these conditions it is absolutely central that non-high priority objectives not covered by the input-based funding are downgraded for the benefit of ISF activities. This is a particularly important issue for mental health protection and part of the offer to chronically ill patients. It goes without saying that the ISF as a management and financing tool depends on the quality of the registration and the way registrations are compiled. On the other hand, even a qualified material will be of little benefit in management context if the material is not used by the business management in the design and implementation of strategies and measures. In this respect, I have noticed the fact that the quality of the medical registration is not satisfactory. I have also noticed the fact that the relevant management information is not available and is used in a good enough way for the management of businesses. The report contains important elements in these areas in terms of learning and improvement in the new health businesses. I want to take this with me in the governance follow-up to the companies in the future. For the first time, conditions will be communicated in the governance document that will be sent to regional health firms after the Stortinget has dealt with St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002, the economy of the Specialist Health Service and the 2002 budget. At the same time, I would like to add that the Ministry will, on the basis of a target management approach, seek to establish the governance of regional health businesses towards the best possible achievement of health policy objectives, on the basis of the budget decisions of the Storting and other decisions. As far as the lack of governance information is concerned in relation to key health policy issues, my conviction is that this is largely related to the manner in which medical and health-care performance requirements are imposed, as is the way in which financial management is required. It is my ambition that these should be set in a way that is based on the overall responsibility of the management of the company for the achievement of health policy objectives and that will make it imperative for qualified management to provide management information of the type mentioned in the report, such as: the development of treatment activity and the relationship between the use of resources by enterprises and the provision of material on the development of productivity and the quality of treatment. I am concerned that the new business organisation should develop good roles by specifying the objectives, priorities and performance requirements of the Storing, Government and Ministry of Health and that there is a clear responsibility for implementation in enterprises. I will also show that the Storting in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 2001-2002 was notified of a review of the longer-term solutions for financing the specialist health service, including in order to meet challenges related to the ISF scheme identified in the National Audit Office’s report. On this basis, the government has set up a public body to propose a future financing system for the specialist health service. The objective of the investigation is to establish, on the basis of the hospital responsibility and ownership reform, a comprehensive funding supporting the governance model and the established division of roles and responsibilities in the service. In addition, the aim is to establish funding to support key objectives of a high-quality productive sector in the provision of services, the organisation of education and research in cooperation with universities and colleges, as well as funding contributing to better cooperation between specialist health services and other health services. The Committee shall discuss several alternative funding models and whether it is desirable to combine several of them in proposals for a single funding system. It is assumed that a future system will support results and, in combination with free hospital choice, “the money will follow the patient”. I consider the report that the Stortinget is dealing with today to be an important basis for the design of the future comprehensive hospital funding system. Let me conclude by saying to the debate that has been going on a little bit since the debate on the vote today, namely on the very desirability of an effort-based system, that I do not think there can be any doubt that it has been a great advantage to have an effort-based system. Before that, it was a little simplified to say, so that you got more money in the hospitals if you had long waiting lists. Now you get more money if you treat more patients – and you have! We have received a treatment capacity that is significantly larger – it has never been bigger – and we have had shorter waiting lists. There are results that must not be forgotten when considering the overall impact of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1576	Now it's clear that there's going to be an evening meeting anyway, so I might as well take the floor. I really just want to stress what the Council of State said, that the ISF as a system requires in essential information, good medical records, control, management and reporting systems. I also want to comment on what SV said. You could think of it as an ISF, but it's not as high as 55 pst. In my home country, Akershus, the opportunity to have a higher ISF share in the county has been used, and although the county has not exactly excelled in very good financial management, at least a relatively large number of patients have been treated during this period. It shows with all due clarity that the ISF as a system assumes a high ISF percentage. But I fully understand that some categories and disease cases do not fit into such a system. It says itself. In the case of the chroniclers, all of whom are very concerned, it is important to note that they do not form a separate part of the National Audit Office's investigation. The Council of State has pointed out the conditions for success, and I am very pleased, on behalf of the majority of the Committee, that the Council of State and the Ministry will take a closer look at this and take due account of what has been revealed in the report. Then we can be sure that we will receive a draft proposal to improve the ISF as a funding system by New Year's Eve this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2711]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1604	In the first place, I would like to make it quite clear that the former State Council of the Ministry of Labour and Administration, Grand President Jørgen Kosmo, has not been involved in the committee's proceedings on this matter. It has unfortunately fallen out of the setting, and I think it is right to clarify it. In October 2000, the then Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided to take up contractual relations in State Building as a matter of its own. The background to this was media claims and statements that the then Director of State Building, Halvor Stormoen, had made critical arrangements in connection with the conclusion of contracts for the business. The criticism was particularly directed at the conclusion of contracts with the company Key Resources Consulting AS, to which it was claimed that Stormoen had personal relations. The National Audit Office has also reviewed the use of administrative consultancy services by Stadsbyggen. Their review is discussed in Document No. 1 for 2001-2002 and in its own report of 7 May 2001. The Committee has decided to examine both of these matters together. First, I want to give a very brief chronological summary of the matter, as it has been present for some time. Since the conditions surrounding the conclusion of contracts in State Building were known through the media in March 2000, the then Supervisory and Constitutional Committee addressed the Ministry of Labour and Administration, asking for a detailed explanation of the facts of the case. In the letter from the Ministry, from the then State Council Jørgen Kosmo, it was stated that the Ministry did not find any basis to say that the rules on stability had been broken in this matter. On 31 October 2000, the then Supervisory and Constitutional Committee informed Kosmo by letter to the Council of State that it had decided to consider the contract matters referred to as a separate matter for Stortinget. In a letter to the Committee on the same day, the Council of State explained the situation in Statsbyggen, that new information had been provided on the scope of the Consulate Summits in question and that it was considered that the procurement legislation was broken at the time. Furthermore, it was informed that Halvor Stormoen had, in agreement with the department, terminated the position as Managing Director of the company. In the wake of this, there was a significant correspondence between these parties, and in part there was strong criticism of the ministry's handling of the matter by Stormoens and his lawyer. This took an interest in the Committee and, in a letter dated 7 March, the Committee asked the State Council for a statement on these matters. In the letter of reply from the Ministry at that time, the Council of State did not wish to comment further on the matter, as it had been sent to Ecocrime for assessment. On 2 November 2001, the case was dismissed by Økokrim, since the investigation had not provided a basis for concluding that Stormoen had committed criminal offences in connection with the purchase of services from Key Resources Consulting AS by Stadsbygg. The case was dismissed on this basis after the document had been filed. The purpose of the examination of the case by the Control and Constitutional Committee has been to clarify the claims made and to identify the background to such a situation. As part of the Committee's proceedings, an open hearing was convened. In the hearing, former directors Kjell Brevik and Halvor Stormoen, former governors Laila Davaøy and Jørgen Kosmo and current councillor Victor Norman met. In addition, a representative of the company Key Resources was invited, but did not want to meet when this hearing was to be held for open doors. The starting point for assessing the breach of legislation is to assess compliance with national public procurement legislation and EEA legislation. In this respect, the Committee finds that the Riksrevision in Document No. 1 notes that during the period covered by the investigation there were significant failures in the contractual procedures. The national audit assesses the facts identified as very critical. These findings have also been confirmed in the review carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Administration on an independent basis. The Committee also notes that there is no dispute between any of the parties involved that there have been shortcomings in State Building's contractual procedures. The Committee considers the information disclosed in those studies to be highly worrying and asks the Government to review State Building Contracting Procedures and to ensure that they comply with applicable legislation. With regard to the claims that Halvor Stormoen should have assigned Key Resources on the basis of acquaintance/friendliness, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Right and Christian People's Party, does not find that it is unnatural that former colleagues continue to keep in touch and form part of a professional network. It is also referred to the Ecokrim's order of business, as mentioned earlier. The majority also indicates that major organisational improvements were made under Halvor Stormoen's management, and that it required significant focus from management that may have gone at the expense of the work on the procurement procedures. During the open hearing, a number of information was provided by former directors Kjell Brevik and Halvor Stormoen on the organisational culture in Statsbyggen. According to these, there were staff members in the organisation who opposed the work of management with organizational improvements and who had direct contact with the ministry’s offices regarding their counter-representation against the work that management had started. The majority of the committee is of the opinion that if this is true, it is a very unfortunate organisational culture. On this basis, the Progress Party wishes to propose that the Government carry out a study of the Organisational Culture of Statsbyggen. Both Stormoen and Brevik criticised in the hearing the follow-up of State Building. According to these, sometimes there was little communication, and at times both had the impression that no one took responsibility for the ownership of State Building. The majority of the Committee, all other than the Socialist Left Party, will therefore also propose that the Government submit its own case to the Stortinget with an assessment of the appropriateness of the current organisation of state buildings. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that are referred to on page 9 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1646	Henrik Rød has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1649	As the rapporteur said, the background to this case is that the Committee wanted to clarify some of the claims made in the media about the ambiguity of practices in state-owned buildings in connection with their conclusion of contracts. It is serious when it comes to allegations that there is a public disregard for the different legislation. The National Audit Office has pointed out in its notes several significant deviations from these provisions regarding the procurement of consultancy services by State Building. Consultant assistance is engaged without prior call for tenders. When the assignment was in progress, there have been long periods without the conclusion of contracts. And finally, bills are paid without these being anchored in a contract or in an agreement. The rapporteur then points to the fact that it also appears to have developed a culture or a pattern of action that is not entirely in line with the guidelines and regulations underlying the business. If such situations arise, it is a management responsibility to clean up. This cannot be used either as an excuse or as an explanation of the faults and shortcomings that may occur in any activity, as in the case of State Building. It has also emerged that the Director of State Building felt that his contact with the political leadership of the department was weaker than one might wish, and that his contact had to be made essentially through the government. Therefore, assuming the director, it would have been appropriate to have a separate board of directors for the business. The current structure will in any case be the overall responsibility of the Council of State, not as a general meeting, but in relation to day-to-day operations. Thus we would have a government that had a very limited role, and such governments are very rarely a success. I'm not going to elaborate this much more, but there's one thing in particular that I would like to clarify a little bit. In a comment from the Right and Christian People's Party, it is said that a police report was submitted because the director had commissioned the consulting company KRC on the basis of the Director's relationship with the company holder. The case rapporteur was also aware that there had been some personal relations between the director and the head of this consulting company. There has never been any central part of the case, and that was not the basis for the notification. This is probably a more picturesque case that the press has been concerned about. The formula didn't contain any of this in the cards, so it wasn't part of the report. It is important that legislation is followed, and there is a significant responsibility on the authorities to ensure that this is done. Of course, it is the Council of State that has such responsibilities in particular, and it is therefore important and necessary that the Council of State, for its part, is aware of the responsibilities of the Council of State and has an overall approach to these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1662	I first want to say that most of the construction projects that Stadsbygg is doing, they're actually doing well, and they're doing well within the limits of one's. One of the main elements in this matter is the use of consulting services, which many people have been involved in today. The use of such services requires the use of State Building's discretion, it says itself. At the time Stormoen was head of State Building, it was spent over 40 million. NOK to advisers. 23 of these went to Key Resources. The Committee does not have any information to suggest that Stormoen was inhaled. Ecocrim has investigated the matter and left it behind after a lack of proof. I therefore do not go into this anymore. When it comes to the purchase of administrative services, the National Audit Office has gone through Statsbygg its use of administrative consultancy services in 2000. The audit had critical comments on this. The report shows to a large extent that these contracts were obtained after negotiations and not after competition, as is the rule of the State. One would expect that state buildings in these cases would have ensured that they were offered by at least three actors, thus securing real competition. The National Audit Office also found pure totalization errors and incorrect use of hourly lists, in short, such errors should be found during routine check-ups before payment. It is also pointed out that evidence was provided without written agreements leading to it. So who is responsible for compliance with legislation and agreements? In general, a expectation must be that the lease in state-owned enterprises has a self-reliance responsibility to ensure that the law is respected in the enterprise and that one itself ensures compliance. State buildings manage significant values on behalf of society, making years for other large purchases of goods and services. During the State Building Hearing, it was found that communication between the Ministry of Labour and Administration and State Building was incomplete. Both former managers pointed this out. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is responsible, inter alia, for: therefore, the Government assesses whether the organisation of state buildings in force today is likely. The hearing also clarified that in this organisation, Statsbyggen, there were forces that actively countered the rental efforts to improve the organisation. Both Brevik and Stormoen expressed this. These are, of course, statements that are hard to prove. But if it were, it would be very harmful for every organization. It seems to me that parts of this building are strongly opposed to changes and are fighting against them. Walking behind the back of his leader is not good, and will have power stela each. I was left with the impression that these counterclaims had good contact with the department and also affected that road. The natural thing would be to take an open fight before the floor through the channels that exist. Hearing has shown that a reorganization was absolutely necessary. Unclear responsibilities, inadequate governance and unclear performance targets meant that a change had to occur. It is very important to be able to learn from this process that you have undergone in State Building. The Christian People's Party welcomes the signals that Norman has given, in relation to both the Ministry of Labour and Administration and State Building. We're some of those people who think that one of the main tasks of State Building in the future is to create a positive reputation of the establishment, and it's going to be demanding. It's not a big point for us to point to scapegoats for everything that went wrong. But if we can help us get this important stage on a good track, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1692	Since the centre party is not represented in this committee, I will only associate some comments with the setting. It is serious when the National Audit Office says that the investigation of Statsbyggen’s purchase of administrative consultancy services has revealed significant weaknesses and is lacking in routines and internal control. Of course, the issue of liability if the legislation has not been followed and what has been done to ensure that the legislation is complied with in the future is important. When the media claims that public agencies and public servants have not adhered to the legislation that exists for the purchase of services to the public sector, it may lead to a failure in public bodies and a weakening of society’s confidence in the decisions taken in the public sector and those working in public settings. This gives cause for concern when it is claimed that there is little communication between the Department and Statsbyggen and that it has led to a sense of responsibility for the ownership of Statsbyggen. The party will support the comment made by the majority of the parties claiming that State Building needs a owner who shows an interest in the development of the enterprise, and not least can act as support and close to the parties to the conversation. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this is absolutely necessary. The centre party can see that it may seem unfortunate that an organisation still has to use forces for reorganization, and that it can create insecurity among those who work there. It may be at the expense of the tasks to be performed by the organisation. However, the central party will support II in the setting, as we see it as important to have a full review of the organisation of state buildings. The result of what is presented to Stortinget, we will decide when.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1705	As this matter, in its origins at least, relates to relations that lie ahead of my time as the Council of State, I do not want to comment for natural reasons on the actual conditions surrounding the Consultant Purchases in Stadsbyg. However, I would like to say a little bit about what is now done to correct the things that were proving not good, and also say a little about the thoughts we have about the organisation and tasks of State Building in the future. With regard to the Committee's recommendation under I regarding a review of State Building procedures, I would first like to point out that the Ministry's report of 1 December 2000 on administrative consultancy in Statsbyggen pointed to several areas of the State Building Organisation where there was a need for change. This applies, inter alia, to: better coordination and coordination of the overall governance documents in Statsbyggen in order to facilitate and more transparent management system clean-up in internal legislation, clarifying the applicable rules and adapting to the new organisational development of an internal audit with the necessary position and independence, and increasing the focus of audit work on whether laws and regulations are being complied with in relation to the maintenance of Statsbyggen’s core competence to ensure that laws and regulations are complied with when purchasing consulting services. It pointed to a number of points where this was not the case, for some State Building agreements had concluded between 1998 and 2000 In this context, the Ministry found it necessary to take concrete measures to ensure that the deficiencies identified were corrected. State-building was therefore required to develop an action plan with concrete improvement measures. In my opinion, this action plan provided a good basis for State Building to address the problem areas. As far as I can understand, routines and regulations are now designed in a way that is as uniform and consistent as possible within the organisation, including: to ensure that there is a sound control of purchases and that there is effective competition in the purchase of goods and services. Much work has also been done to ensure that laws, regulations and practices are complied with in practice. This work is very important and is followed up by the Ministry both through the ordinary etching management dialogue and through specifically established procedures. Moreover, the internal economic instructions of state-building have been followed up by a separate process and a new economic instructions are in place. Despite the improvement undertaken in the implementation of the Action Plan, the Ministry will carry out a new extended control of State Buildings in the autumn of 2002 for, among others. to verify the need for further action to ensure proper and proper compliance with rules, procedures and procedures. With regard to the Committee's recommendation under II on an assessment of the State Building Organisation, I will first refer to what I said during my presentation to the Stortinget on 24 January of this year on the modernisation of the public sector, as well as in my contribution to the open hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the matter on 15 February. From the very first day as a state council, I have seen the ministry's office management of the underlying administrative bodies as a difficult area. On the one hand, the intention is to distinguish activities from those of the departments to give them the freedom to operate independently according to defined objectives and guidelines. On the other hand, close political governance with these agencies is required – from different sides. In my opinion, too tight political governance of the underlying agencies provides the basis for many possible role conflicts between the ministry and the administration. One of my main points in the Modernisation Statement for the Storting was that we have to contribute to clarifying the many different roles of the public in order to ensure a sound administration for the benefit of the citizens. General budget management is therefore one of the main themes we are working on in the reorganisation of both my own department and the department structure in general. In the case of State Buildings in particular, the Government is fully in line with the Storting regarding the need to assess the appropriateness of today’s organisation. In the review of State Buildings, I want to focus specifically on two things: one is to create a clear distinction between the different tasks that State Building currently performs, i.e. between property management, operation and maintenance, and building and consultancy functions. The second is to clarify that the role of ordering on behalf of the State is to be as distinguishable as possible from the role of performing. It is natural that the tasks that can be outsourced to competition – primarily operating/maintenance and design/consultation – are separated into separate companies. It is also natural to consider whether the property management should be placed in a separate company. On the other hand, when it comes to overall ordering tasks, it is natural to involve them more closely in the department. The Ministry is already carrying out such a review of State Buildings and the relationship between State Building and the Ministry, and I intend to be able to provide a broader information on this matter in connection with the presentation of the budget proposal for the autumn. The aim of this review is to make a clearer distinction between those parts of the country’s construction activities with which close political governance is required and those functions that do not require political governance. I think that such a distinction will make a significant contribution to solving the station management dilemma I pointed to, and in that way, to the seventh and last time also helping to provide a clearer administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1750	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1753	I would like to thank the Council of State for his contributions. At least those who are signed are reassured by the conclusion of the contract. However, what I would like to hear more about is the organisational culture in Stadsbyg. I think the claims made in the hearing were so far alarming that I want to stay a little bit more. So we're talking about two former directors of this company who say the exact same thing. In our open hearing, they both said that there were informants – called the ‘invisible person’ – in the organisation that directly countered management and the strategy that management had. There must be something in this when two former CEOs in the company say so. So I believe that. I think it's important that the Council of State also notices this, I think it is particularly serious when the same two directors point out that the follow-up of the department has been too poor. It has also been said that they have tried to contact former government councils who have been responsible for these things, but that they have not even made contact to address such matters as the organisational culture. I could imagine challenging the Council of State to say a little about what one intends to do to look at the organisational culture in Statsbyggen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1762	I have no reason to assess whether the organisational culture in Statsbyggen was tidy or untidy before my time as a Council of State, and will not give an opinion on that issue at all. But I want to make it clear that the issue of organisational culture is a matter of organisation. In principle, I fully agree with the view expressed by representatives earlier in this debate, that it is ultimately the responsibility of the management to ensure that a good organisational culture is in place. But I want to add that in the extension of it is also that management needs to be given a framework that allows the organisation to develop in the direction necessary. Then it is important to have a neat relationship between the owner and the management, in this case the department and State Building. I think one of the key elements of the changes we are thinking about in the organisation of State Building is that State Building is given a clearer and freer position in the areas where it is natural to have a free position. It will also be much easier for the management of Statsbyggen to develop the organisation and the organisational culture in a clean way. So without considering what has happened historically, I am absolutely sure that the model we are thinking about for Statsbyggen in the future will help to develop the organizational culture in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-14.ana.ud2261e1769	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. [[See page 2711]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
