ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e28	The President will draw attention to the fact that he intends to end the meeting at 9 p.m. 22nd@item: inlistbox Then you can plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e31	This is going to be 14 years in a row that I'm going to comment on the number of thrones. I've been browsing through the 13 previous languages of the throne, and they have one thing in common: a flood of non-committal words with pious desires, but one steers away from existing conflicts and significant problems in Norwegian society. It is only when a reader reads the financial language and the submitted state budget that one can form a certain picture of the truth level in the list of figures of faith in relation to the practical policy that this government will pursue in 2003. The message in the Common Era that the level of taxation should be reduced is difficult to understand, as only insignificant tax relief has been provided and all charges increased by 2.5 p.m., which will hit the poorest. Moreover, the recent poverty report does not offer the major radical changes to improve the situation of the very many poor in this country. When, in his financial speech, the Minister of Finance seems to think that value creation is only an economic affair, I have to say very disagree with that. There is considerable value creation, for example, in health care and not least in care for the elderly, and I have never correctly understood that care expenditure should necessarily appear as red figures in the social accounts. This government and, in particular, the Prime Minister often talk about the value on which this government stands, and that their practical policies express a good view of human beings. I take it for granted that both the human dignity and the human vision of practical politics should also apply to the born life by organising the practical policy, so that every human being can achieve the highest quality of life, regardless of innate qualities. In my field of government budget, I find little connection between the great words in the census of human dignity and values and the relationship with chronically ill, unqualified and minimum pensioners. I am, of course, satisfied that the government has followed up to introduce a ceiling 2 for chronically ill people, which protects these for extraordinary expenses. But this is a decree from the Storting, which the Government has presented. I am more than abandoned and frustrated that the Government while they prepare a roof 2, removes the blue recipe without any specialities. This is the state taking in 400 million. kr extra from the chronically ill and the disabled, while the Roof 2 scheme has a cost of 240 million. kr. Medical expenditure is not covered by Roch 2. The increase in the balances in general and many cuts in welfare schemes for disabled and disabled persons amounts to well over DKK 1 billion and thus covers more than what the Government has put in as an increase in the unhelp. I think I would say it so strongly that removing the bladder prescription system and increasing the excesses, to which the government puts up, is a provocation against the health and social policy of the Progress Party that we had not expected, nor will we accept. In my opinion, it is very bad political craftsmanship on the part of this government to provoke the Progress Party on this for the party's priority field, while at the same time expressing the fact that it is precisely the Progress Party that is also to save this state budget. I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased with the progress in the hospital reform. It has already given expected results in terms of cutbacks in the waiting lists and shorter waiting times for the patients, and I find reason to commend our health minister for the nitite follow-up to the reform he has had and continues to have. Without it, we wouldn't have gotten as far as we've actually made up to the present time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e50	When SV says ‘children and young people first’, we don’t joke. It is a reality. That's not just beautiful words. To do that, it's going to be a tough political priority. We give priority to success, and we give priority to the growth of our children – also financially. We are to create a fair society, a democratic society based on values like tolerance and a society without big dividing lines. It's important to give everyone equal opportunity and create a society that's good to live in. The answer to many of these questions is education, education and education. Priority needs to be given to both primary, secondary, tertiary, research and adult education. I want to use my time to talk about the world's best public elementary school -- the state primary school as a basic platform for creating a fair, good society. SV wants to create the world's best school and the world's most capable students. We say children and young people first because they're the most important thing there is. Childhood does not come in reprisals. When 50 pst. of the country's schools do not meet the requirements of a good indoor environment, and they continue to teach temporary exemptions from the legislation, this child, who does not experience this as temporary. Public schools are important for everyone to have the same platform. All children should have a good and safe school, where you can both socialise and learn, you can go on trips, and you can get training through experience. My daughter, Kaja, goes to a public school and meets other cultures and religions and students in a different situation of life and learns from it – a school where everyone meets each other, where they are allowed to use their skills and help the others. Using your own skills is important – to show your self-esteem and to show what you are good at. The school will contribute to this, and it will also contribute to mastering life after school. The content of the school is important. We have to have a school that is democratic, a school where students are allowed to participate in learning. The students have an enormous desire to learn, and we must not kill it along the way. We can't give more of the medicine that doesn't work, a doggy school where math and Norwegian and more central control are the main points. Last year, 10,000 students stayed at home while the others were on the road, because their parents couldn't afford it. 128 500 young schoolchildren went to SFO last year. The parental payment in the SFO today is too high, and when it is cut 217 million. kr, this is going in a completely wrong direction. Others will not be able to use this important offer. The goal must be to bring prices down and improve the quality of the SFO. With a halving of the allocation, the opposite happens. There will be an increased tax on school and a tax on the poorest. Today, around NOK 2,000 per person is spent. pupils for materials at school. This is hopeless. There is too little money to go out and experience. One of my goals is that all students should be allowed to travel to Auschwitz to learn from history, to see and feel it. That's something you learn from. We can adopt laws, make messages and have good intentions until we become both yellow and green, but it does so little when we are not willing to prioritize the economic aspect in order to get a better school. The government says you can get a better school using less money. This is an impossibility when you cut into the municipalities and cut into the leg. The municipalities have three main areas of responsibility: kindergartens, school and the elderly and health. A cut in the municipalities means a cut for the school. We don't need new messages about the resource situation in primary school. We have messages and messages in mind, from students, from parents, from teachers, from municipalities, from organisations, etc. It's a unanimous chorus. We can see that. School buildings are in decline. We don't have to see anything more. We don't have to hear anything more. Reality is there. My daughter goes to a school that needs total renovation, a school where a girl in her parallel class had to quit and start at a new school because the indoor climate was too bad. She couldn't go to that school. She got sick by being there. This is not a crisis maximisation but a reality. This is a political priority one has to do, but as the Government does not. Loans have been introduced for school buildings – DKK 15 billion over eight years. Many municipalities feel that they cannot afford to use this money. In addition, the two billion proposed next year have been cut down to $1 billion. Many municipalities cannot afford to borrow because it involves increased operating costs on which the municipality breaks its neck. SV believes that you should go in with the same reform as you do in R97, and use it in high school, that the state goes in and takes responsibility and says that you have to give money. A new study from the KS shows that it will cost NOK 40 billion to upgrade the Norwegian school to a standard that is satisfactory, and it will be more expensive. School buildings have a lot to say for the health status of students, but also for their ability to acquire new knowledge. New studies from Trondheim show that the physical design of the school is important for students’ learning, concentration, well-being. The design, colour selection, furniture, decoration and maintenance of the school buildings are important. In bright, open rooms with good order, students want to work. They also want to be with others and take responsibility for what it looks like. Degraded, dark and poorly maintained rooms provide poor learning ability. The PISA survey also concludes that school students in countries where a lot of resources are used in libraries, ICTs and special rooms are better off in terms of performance, such as: reading understanding. There are lots of examples from School-Norway. Among other things, yesterday's news was about a school that they didn't think they could accept a lot of free books for their library, because it cost $1,200 to pick up these books. Up to half of the country's municipalities said in advance that the government's budget was being presented, that it was going to be cut in the schools. There are many examples, including: from the municipality from which I come, where many students no longer receive swimming lessons, because five of the municipality's swimming pools are closed. There are examples of parents who bring material to school for students to have formalisation. There have been actions before this election. It was a general strike in Tromsø, and it is a riot on the part of the rapporteur. There are many places where there are fewer teachers. There's parental rebellion in the municipalities. I get telephones, and I get an e-mail about this. Another example is that more and more classes are being taught in corridors. You get Corridor students – the same thing you've experienced in hospitals. I have been in municipal policy six years earlier, and the closure of schools in the districts was also a theme within the municipality where I was present. 600 primary schools have been closed in the last 10 years. This is about who the school is for; this is about children having the right to a school in the community. It is no longer possible to streamline to a better school. It's almost like it's a paradox that we're going to decide that the free principle is going to be real in school, when there's such a big cut in here. Bullying is a big problem. It's going to be 70 pst. More bullying over the last few years, but out in Kommune-Norway, it is felt that the tools that can be used can not be used, because it costs too much for each school to be able to use them. SV has now inserted a Document No. 8-proposals that say we want to raise the standard at school; we want to create a predictable resource allocation for schools to ensure that all schools have a sound financial basis. We have proposed the introduction of a national minimum standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e86	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e89	The Labour Party will ring the bell of the public common school where the vast majority of children are today, and will continue to be in the future. To ensure a good school, we will use more resources, and we will strengthen the quality and content. We want to build alliances to counter the Government's or – to say it directly – the Right's new course, which means the economic strangulation of the common school, where proposals for privatisation and competition are rewarding. I am pleased that, through cooperation in the last year, we have found a common position with SV on most issues in the field of education. Among other things, our parties, together with a majority here in Stortinget, managed to secure a boost in student funding, which is very important for the implementation of the Quality Reform. But cooperation and results also require compromises and adjustment of primary positions, and there has been a problem that SV has had more money for good purposes than most parties. If we are to achieve a common school effort, get good cooperation and strengthen the local economy, we must do so within frameworks that do not threaten jobs and value creation, and we must not increase the risk of interest rate increase. If EN is willing to focus its efforts on the education sector within the framework of the overall economy, I look forward to continued cooperation in the field of education and in other areas. This sounds like a kind greeting, but it is also a serious advice when we see the situation of a good number of companies in the competitive sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e100	SV is willing to give priority to hard work, and that's what we do every year in our alternative budget. It is important to keep a tight framework, and therefore the political priority is extremely important. When the government spends so much money on 2 pst. by students in Norway, it is unfair. With the new private school law and the government's new initiative for a small part of the students, it's unfair. If we took the same promise for the public school, it would mean an increase of 15-20 billion kroner. Private school does not give a real freedom of choice to parents, it gives restrictions. It's a political priority, an ideology that leads to segregation in society. One divides society into religious, rich and poor — at all in different types of relationships. What happens is a huge investment in private school in Norway, which is at the expense of public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e107	Once again, we have heard an article that gives us the impression that the government is not betting at school – yes, the school is almost neglected. The representative of Lena Jensen sits on the Church, Education and Research Committee and knows whether the Committee has been dealt with in many cases, which just show that education is a focus of this government. I can mention increased hours in primary school, new university and college law, degree structure introduced, case of private colleges, public high school law, new teacher education and case of school environment for the students. At the same time, all statistics show that municipalities are paying more in school now than ever before. Isn't this to bet on at school? There's a lot up to a municipality's priorities. We know that the municipality of Tromsø – and the municipality knows the representative of Jensen well – spends 600 million. kr to new town hall. Is it strange that they can't afford to adjust their school buildings? The representative of Jensen is entitled to say that investing in school is not just a question of budget allocation. This is why the Government is committed to local freedom and not to central government. I would like to ask the representative Jensen if she does not agree with me that all the proposals made by the government show that the government is really betting at school. Is there any of these things that she thinks show the opposite? And further, doesn't the representative of Lena Jensen also see that school content and organisation, greater freedom for each school, are essential elements in the quality improvement of the school? And finally, like Lena Jensen, I'd like to send all the students to Auschwitz to see what happened there. Does Lena Jensen believe that the absolute free principle should also apply to such trips?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e120	It's about priorities, and it's about philosophy and where you want to go. The same thing about Auschwitz, I drew up against the fact that you have resources per person. students of NOK 2000 per year; years in the Norwegian school. Then one has, if one is to travel from Tromsø, not come further than to Narvik. What this government is doing, and what the budget presented shows, is that the big loser is the public school. The local economy is tightened, and it will hit the public school. The rapporteurs, after the rapporteurs, have said, and municipalities after municipalities have said: it is no longer to be taken off. The result is that all the tasks that are not required by law in a municipality are cut down. The rhetoric that is used to change the name of private schools to fresh schools and to use the argument about freedom of choice, I don't think. It's a segregation of the students, and it's once again the most weak in society that loses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e131	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e134	In my view, there has never been a greater need for an active value debate in Norwegian policy than today. It's good that there's a lot of people in it. Never before has the message of a warmer society been more topical. We're richer than ever, but at the same time, there's a lot of people outside of us too. Norway is in line with the UN Development Programme, UNDP, the country in the world that has the best quality of life, and we have heard that in the debate before today. At the same time, there may never have been so many lonely people in Norway as today. There have never been so many who have had to deal with mental problems. 15-20 pst. of Norway’s population has mental illness to a greater or lesser extent, and that is a cause of disability. Psychiatric disorders cost the Norwegian community $30 billion in social security, treatment and social expenditure. It is a great paradox that wealth causes many to fall outside. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Left, has responsibility in a politically demanding situation. Both the krone and the interest rate are under pressure, and there were extra demands to limit public spending. Despite a tight economy, important priorities underpin the government's work. Cooperation has shown that health, family and care are priority areas. Next year, the government is putting up a record bet on health, and I am pleased with the compliment that Alvheim's representative gave us in his contribution. This gives room to bet on important areas that have traditionally been lower priorities. The Psychiatric Plan will be followed up, health interventions for drug users will be strengthened, and the cancer plan will be completed as planned. It is also set to continue the high level of activity in hospitals next year. Cooperation governance has intensified the fight against poverty both nationally and internationally. The government has increased the assistance to a record level, and suggests next year to increase it further. It's also with Right, which many people warn us in advance that we wouldn't be able to do. But we got it. The poverty of the world also embraces us as one of the richest countries in the world, and we must lead by example. Prioritizing cheaper spirits rather than helping the poorest is a priority the Christian People's Party can neither understand nor defend. National government has prioritised dithering. Being poor in a country where so many have so well can be very difficult. We have presented several targeted measures to help people out of poverty. The fight for the weakest has always been an important struggle for the Christian People's Party. I'm proud to be part of a government that saw the fight against poverty so high on the agenda. The government has highlighted care at the end of life as a very important asset. Our health system is really being tested when we say humanly that there is no more to do. But there's always something to do. When medical treatment no longer lasts, in the face of death, it can and should always be a hand to hold on to for those who need it. The government has set aside funds to create new hospice slots. Next year, the Government will also put forward various plans to further the efforts of the human race in the final phase of life. Art and culture have a self-esteem and are decisive for the individual's personality and quality of life. The government will present a cultural message that takes this perspective seriously. Culture is anchoring at a time of great change. Culture gives both insight and builds bridges between people and nations. The local meeting places for cultural activities, sports and activities within different views of faith and life are places to which we all have a relationship. In order to give children and young people security in their own identity and say they have faith, I think it is important to strengthen the threat training. The government will submit a message with a reform of the baptismal training in the Norwegian Church. A bet on baptismal training is important for Churcha to be able to be a living church that gives birth to future generations. The objectives of sport policy are also set. In the future, I think it is particularly important to continue to invest in the construction of sports facilities for children and young people in areas with a low coverage. It remains to be seen whether to take responsibility in a politically demanding situation. One might equal it or not, but the country actually needs a government that is willing to reduce the pressure on the crown and interest. The Christian People's Party and the Cooperation Government have shown that we are willing to take this responsibility. Today, it looks like they're the ones who promise to spend more money — and a lot more money — that's the most popular. Those who do not take responsibility for the total economy are also the ones who do the best on the polls, we can read by day. My hope is that in this Chamber there will be enough people who are also credible in relation to economic policy and will be involved in getting a budget in port that keeps the economy in check.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e172	Let me first comment on the first sentence in the articles of the Council of State. The councils began by saying: Never has the need for a value debate been greater than today. Yes, yes, and then we've got a priest from the Christian People's Party in the Prime Minister's Chair! But we take note that as far as the value debate is concerned, there has never been any greater need than today for it. It was said to read in the media that the Christian People's Party has lost the budgetary struggle in the government. When you read the cultural and church budget, you can get the impression that there has been no struggle on the part of the Christian People's Party at all. The Minister for Culture has said and summed it up so that the 2003 budget is not a cultural initiative budget. Nor does the Church have any good reason to rejoice. The economic downturn in the municipal sector will also limit the contribution of municipalities to the local community work. I see money for the baptismal training is increasing. It is in itself truly amazing, all the time when the system of baptismal training has not yet been adopted by the Storting. It has not yet come to this house for treatment. So to my question to the Council of Churches. In the year’s budget, we can read that after the Church meeting in November 2002 has dealt with the Bakkevig Committee’s position on the Church/State, the Government will appoint a separate selection to discuss the issue of the State/Church regime. The Council of Churches, on the other hand, says that the treatment in November ‘is a preliminary treatment and should not be regarded as a decision of principle on the future of the Church’. How does this relate? Does the Council of Churches mean that the Ministry should launch an investigation into the Church/State issue before the Church has internally clarified its position and made a decision on the principle of its own future?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e185	The representative Eva M. Nielsen said that in the newspapers it has been said that the Christian People's Party has been the budget pair in the fight for money in the government – yes, then Eva Nielsen read completely different newspapers than what I read, because I have actually read the opposite in many of them. I thought as far as it's not so interesting. I have not said that there is no cultural effort in the budget. What I have done is follow up the ABM message. I also said that I would like to think of more money for culture. There is no doubt about it. At the same time, we're going to present a cultural message to the spring where we can stack up new bets. We follow up the ABM message, at least pretty much, and then we have to focus on new cultural actions after the cultural message has been made, and we've got it handled. In addition, the Storting has also established a key that makes culture actually get a good deal of new funds in the year to come, and I'm glad. I was also very happy that Eva M. Nielsen said that the church can't cheer, because they don't get enough money from me either. Then I hope that Eva Nielsen will make sure that not the Church's budget will be cut to the next year, as the representative was on last year, with about 12-20 million. kr. Eva Nielsen was in that plural last year that weakened the economy. That's what I thought was very sad, but at least I don't expect the Labour Party to be involved in anything more cut for the next year, and I'm glad. Baptism training or truss training will soon come to Stortinget. It won't be that long before Eva M. Nielsen will see what this message contains. The five million that I've proposed there this year will benefit a little bit, and the money is well arranged. So this is the state/church question. If the Church meeting says they don't want a selection, that's fine. But all the signals I've received from church organs say they want a selection, and then I'm going to listen to what the Church itself says, and put down the selection they're asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e198	In the census, and also now, it was announced that the government will present a cultural message in the next year. We're going to see that in SV. Perhaps the presentation of such a communication will also lead to the fact that in next year’s financial speech we will hear the word ‘culture’ referred to, at least once. The fact that culture was not mentioned in one word in the financial language is understandable in the light of the draft budget available. Krohn Devold has smiled in the papers as a budget winner. I haven't seen a smiling Answer City Haugland in that context, and it's for good reason. It's amazing that a government with the Right and Christian People's Party, which likes to present itself as cultural parties, chooses to let culture bleed, while they proudly stand up and say that they have fulfilled tax promises so far in their period of 17 billion kroner. What are the visions of the Minister of Culture Haugland? Based on this year's budget, she seems to be operating with a zero vision. New projects and ideas that should have been realised are being put on ice for final preservation. That's the least resistance path. There is a desire for minimum noise. The most positive thing about this year's cultural budget is the cultural school bag that has been imposed on the government of the opposition in the Stortinget. As a matter of fact, this year's budget has a growth of just over 100 million. kr, but that's before we take into account the price and pay growth, and that's before we calculate the tipping agents that the bulk of the population has been added to to avoid irritating or challenging or making a bothersome cut. SV has an ambition of 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes. It may seem that the Council of State has no ambitions of its own. Would she think to share SV's ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e211	I think I'll deal with my own and the government's visions even when it's about the cultural sector. I am delighted to present a cultural message in which we will present our visions to build on culture. First of all, I thought it was wrong to say that culture is bleeding. We've been through a very demanding budgetary process, and I have been honest when I've said that I could think of more money for culture. I hope that the next budget, that is for 2004, will involve more focus on culture. At the same time, we have made some important priorities within the cultural budget in order to carry on, among other things. messages handled by Stortinget and to address some of the worst situations for, among others. blind and weak when it comes to their ability to read books or to hear books, etc. We have made some tough priorities. But it's obvious that culture is very important as a bearer of the nation, and so too will the government fight for in time to come. When it comes to the focus on culture in this budget, it is quite right that the cultural school is getting a good bet because of changes in the key. But don't forget that when a changed key also locked a certain amount of resources for the entire government, which means we have to re-prioritize. Had not the decision been taken, the culture could have received funds that we could have used on a freer basis. The cultural school could also be given priority, but at the same time we might have found more resources for, for example. theaters, free groups, etc. This was one of the decisions made by a majority, in addition to some other decisions, which forced the Government to make priorities that individually can be good, but when prioritizing within a tight framework, it gives less room for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e220	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e223	Unbelievable instability has come into Norwegian policy – not primarily because of the Progress Party, but because of the interaction between political life and the accessories of opinion polls, experts and media. I don't know any country where there are at least six polls every month and everyone is taken equally solemnly. All the actors I mentioned are swinging up and down along with these measurements. They swing so that there is real force in the oscillations. Just think about the last days – 30 pst. to the Progress Party? And you act as if there had been elections – not least Carl I. Hagen himself. He takes advantage of the poll to obtain a strength he has not received in legal elections. And one more thing: if you haven't noticed that the voters are always walking against the parties that haven't been in government, and when these parties come into government, both the voters and themselves discover that what they stood for in opposition was not sustainable. This process has taken place for many years, against government by government and from opposition to opposition. And so we're probably all indebted. What we have promised is not being implemented. The dissatisfaction among the population is increasing. Those who have never been in government are the winners. In my view, much of the turmoil in Norwegian policy is also linked to the fact that we are in favour of Europe and that we are outside Europe. Food prices, taxes and business framework conditions are issues of adaptation to our neighbouring countries. The progress party refers to Sweden. What has Sweden done? They have adapted to European realities, reduced taxes where necessary and increased taxes in other areas in order to maintain well-being. The Swedish have not done as the Progress Party proposes, lowering the fees without compensating for the loss of revenue. They have achieved the adaptation without affecting well-being. Perhaps the responsible parties in this country should join forces on similar acts. The question of our relationship with Europe also has other serious aspects. We have an interest rate of almost 4 pst. higher than in Europe, leading to the relocation of parts of industry. And because we have customs on processed fish products, we don't get the jobs and the value creation we could have gotten out of our most important resource, the fish. Had we got more value creation out of the fish, we could probably have paid for the deficits that many municipalities along our coast have today. What about our interest rate level if Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom move to the euro? What is the situation for fisheries if Poland joins the EU and we get customs duties on processed fishery products to this country as well. And what about foreign policy when we are about to face an EU of 25 countries and 500 million people? This issue needs to be addressed in the following perspective: poverty, environmental problems, financial unrest and terror spread from continent to continent and are now at the same time acting at the entrance of this new century and constituting an incredible drama. It is obvious that there is a need for global policy solutions. But this is now being hindered by our closest allies, the United States. However, it does not help with anti-Americanism. The thing is, the world has only one surviving superpower. It has an economic and military capacity without parallels in history and accounts for a very large proportion of the world's consumption and pollution. Global solutions do not come about without the power and wealth of the United States. And it turns out that we've needed it in many ways, for example. in the Balkans. But we can't do it without turning parts of American politics, and without anyone balancing the power of the United States. We need a more balanced world. That is why we need a strong Europe. And we here in Norway need a Europe to achieve important Norwegian foreign policy objectives. Let me do some examples. EU countries fought for the strongest possible Kyoto agreement. The United States said no to sign it. But the fight against climate problems cannot be won without the United States participating, changing politics, simply because the United States stands for 25 pst. of the world's CO2 emissions. It is not possible to achieve the objectives of the Kyoto Agreement without the participation of the United States. Then, in that case, the rest of the world had to take on the emission reductions that the United States will not take on, and it is completely unthinkable that countries like India and China will be involved in something like this. Another example is the dispute over the International Criminal Court. Here we see more clearly the conflict between a Europe that will build an international legal order and an American that will be as free as possible. Another example, and perhaps the most important: at the recent Johannesburg Summit, the President of France called for the taxation of globalisation, currency transactions, air travel or information flows, which are the symbols and content of globalisation, to mention something. I will give tribute to the Christian People's Party to stand firm for the assistance of the poor. It's very important. But that's not the only gratifying thing. I want to make a comparison with the construction of the welfare state here at home. We went in time from caring and charity to taxing those who had much, to giving to those who had little. We went from care to justice, from care to welfare, to redistribution through taxation. Thus we got a fairer social structure, simply by putting the poor man at the centre of the economy instead of being an object of gentle gifts. That is what we have to do at the global level, and that is what the President of France called for in Johannesburg. It is this European Union that has said that they will now investigate, and that will win approval on the whole of the European continent. It's actually the only place it wins approval. The world cannot afford anti-Americanism. But it is necessary to say from the fact that America needs to change course and go to the roots of today's problems: poverty and environmental problems. That is why the world needs Europe more than ever, and we need Europe more than ever in the implementation of Norwegian foreign policy and key Norwegian foreign policy objectives. One understands — and one does not have to conceal it — that this is about our relationship with the EU, one of the largest but least mentioned issues in Norwegian policy at present. This is the situation that is becoming more difficult and more difficult, and, in my opinion, more and more uncomfortable. We are being squeezed between the increasingly more and more self-conscious Europe, an EU that will consist of almost the whole continent, 500 million people, and the United States. We cannot do anything about our relationship with the EU in many years, but we can show leadership by using the coming year to prepare a thorough analysis and debate, which must come to the beginning of the year of the EU enlargement, namely in 2004. I think the census was chemically free from this perspective. That's probably why the small issues dominate Norwegian politics, and as a result, the big parties are getting smaller and the small ones larger. Instead of an endless debate on who will cooperate with who, we should perhaps have a more active debate in this country about who Norway is going to work with to meet its own challenges and to make the world fairer and better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e262	It's a pleasure to be able to compliment the leader of the country's largest party with a perspective-oriented and exciting post. It was actually a contribution in the debate on the throne to the difference from most of the posts we have heard so far, which has been a kind of pre-participation in the budgetary procedure. Now it is not difficult to share the representative Jagland's view of the peculiarities of Norwegian politics. Jan Petersen expressed it this way in an interview some time back that Norway is the only country in the world where you feel like you have big choices every week. It's easy to share Jagland's view of this. It's also easy to divide his analysis of the phenomenon that we're in a period when parties that have never been close to government seem magnetic to the voters. But in that context, there was something the representative of Jagland forgot, namely that it also appears that parties that have had government power, even have been used to having government power, seem to have never been close to government power, even at almost the same moment they have escaped from government offices. And one of the reasons why Norwegian policy looks as distinct as we can agree that it does is perhaps that the Workers' Party in the relatively short period after leaving the government offices has been able to make a child care deal that I have come to understand that the representative Jagland is quite critical of – for good reason. There has also been an agreement to change the key, which has been a base mountain under Norwegian research funding for 50 years, in fact by a pen stroke. There is also reason to recall that during the previous ageing period, the Workers' Party cooperated very closely with the Advance Party on the major project IT Fornebu, all the way under the direction of Norway's largest capitalists, the Norwegian Investor Forum. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why Norwegian policy has come out of layers as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e271	There were different things that got mixed up here a little bit. There has been cross-block cooperation on many structural issues, and one of the issues mentioned by Wage was IT Fornebu. It was also the case that the government was involved, even if you initially did not want it. Regarding the other questions, Inge Wohnung himself said something about my attitude towards them. I mean the exact same thing about them that I meant when I was in government, through several governments. What's the problem is that the Progress Party demands to be in two positions at once, both to support the Government and then to join the opposition to undermine the Government. That's the main problem, and it's not so easy to be the other parties in opposition when they act this way, and to all the overmeasures also take positions that several of the other parties in government had, while it was election fighting. I understand pay so that these questions are necessary to think through. I have also tried to contribute to that, because I believe that it cannot actually be in Norwegian parliamentary reality that a party can both say that that government will come to, and then, in the next run, dissociate itself from the responsibility and join the opposition to undermine that particular government. This has been a problem for many governments, and I think we should get better relations in Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e282	It's easy to agree with the representative Jagland that one must turn, one must balance the United States. In Norway, we have a very central role in the world today. We have a few months left in the Security Council. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Jagland, what we can do to prevent war against Iraq. What can we actively work with in the Security Council to achieve this? We know that after the previous war against Iraq – if one takes away the ongoing war, such as the British and American bombing that takes place every week – it was not until the 1990s that a commission was created that was to be responsible for the disarmament of Iraq. We also know that Saddam Hussein has in no way cooperated particularly well with them; they have had a cat's game with the mouse. But we know that it has our effectiveness. Inspectors are effective. More weapons have been removed in Iraq through the work of weapons inspectors than in the whole of the great war that took place in the early 1990s. The UN is effective, international cooperation is effective. This is the experience we should have when now Norway is also going to contribute to the Security Council to do everything it can to prevent war. I saw today the Secretary-General of the Council of Refugees Raymond Johansen, formerly a party trap of mine, and now a party trap – at any rate – of the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee, say that Norway must do everything in its power to prevent war. We know it comes from bishops, from church environment, from many environments of opinion, that we should prevent war. So what can we expect from the Labour Party in relation to pushing the Government into this war-retardant work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e294	This article ended up in a question about what we can do to press the Government. I must honestly say that I feel that this is not the question, because the government is pursuing a policy for which there is broad coverage in the Stortinget, and which at least the Workers' Party agrees. And it wouldn't help Norway if we were to get a split around this at home. What I see as the government is doing is using its place in the Security Council to influence as much as possible in the direction of the position we have, and that several European countries have, that is to say, that you have to do what you can to get the weapons inspectors in, as Bjørn Jacobsen said. But here we come up with some of the things that I also said in my post, that it's probably right that you hadn't gotten there after all, without the United States being willing to threaten the use of power and actually have the opportunity to use power. It was only when Saddam Hussein delivered a letter to the United Nations. But then it is important to balance it against what is our main line of foreign policy, namely to find a solution within the UN Security Council. I'm aware that here the table can catch, but it's not as simple as saying that you should just bet on refraining from using power and getting a solution through diplomacy and weapons inspectors, because we're not facing a regime operating within those categories. That's the whole main problem. If they had, we would have had no problem with Saddam Hussein. My answer is quite simply that I believe that the Government has a right policy in this area, that it has support in the Storting and that we should stand together on it. That's when we're going to get the impact of the United Nations Security Council. Then we'll see when everything comes on the table, and we have to make a decision. Then I don't know where the different will stand, but until that happens, I think it's right to do as we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e308	I would like to join the compliments of the representative Wage to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for his contributions. He promotes foreign policy, which has been one too small part of the debate of the throne, and he did so with a perspective that provides the basis for thinking and reflections that we need. It should be a problem for all of us politically active in Stortinget that we sometimes forget that all these polls are not choices. Even if we try to say it every time, we have a tendency all the time to devote ourselves to the debates that you can't give any meaningful vocabulary and solution to things. It was a rather long sequence of EU membership and Europe-debate. I share the view of the committee leader that we need a European debate, but I have some issues that I want to challenge Jagland. Fish was called as one of the important areas of Norway, and it's very clear that it is. But maybe that's also one of the main reasons why we've said no. Does the representative, Mr Jagland, think that one has come to the point where the EU has a management of fish that makes it safe to say that we can become part of the EU? If we don't have any fish to process, it doesn't help with market access either. Similarly, I also want to challenge Norway's role when it's related to the trust we have internationally. in relation to development. There is no doubt that in Johannesburg Norway plays a role where EU countries that were with us used Norway. Does Jagland mean that we could play the role if we hadn't had the freedom we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e317	These are the most relevant questions. As for the fish, I have written in my last book that I have found that the no-people had a lot to do with them in 1994. Looking at the EU fisheries policy, we see that it has not been successful and that it was a well-founded fear that fishermen had in 1994. It is therefore important to examine how this will now be done. The EU is in the process of reforming fisheries, and the question is whether it is possible for us to secure both resources and better access to markets. The next question is also very relevant. There's absolutely reason to think about what role we can play in foreign policy by being involved instead of standing outside that now. I think that arguments can be argued in the field that we would have a different role if we joined the European Union, and that we could not then play it – what to say – the role between different, as we have clear in some contexts. I also heard an interview with one of the Swedish State Secretarys who has been with me since Olof Palme's day. He was asked about this, because at that time Sweden had a very high profile of foreign policy, while not so much attention is now being paid to Sweden in other parts of the world. He replied that, yes, that's a true observation, but he thought that Sweden now has more influence over the world's time than what you had when you went on demonstration trains and had a lot of slogans, because now Sweden is sitting around a table with countries that have a lot of influence. But it's a balance sheet, and it's necessary to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e332	The government's aim is to ensure the security of individuals, to create new opportunities for people who have fallen outside, and to facilitate work and activity. People have a natural desire to manage themselves, and we need to facilitate the widest possible supply of their own through work and income. The government has promoted St.meld. No 6, Action Plan against Poverty. Unfortunately, such a plan is necessary. Although we live in a rich country and have well-developed welfare systems, some have fallen outside and live in poverty. If we are to be able to help these, the targeted measures are needed in addition to today's universal arrangements. The government's proposal is to systematically focus on work, targeting welfare systems and social inclusion to prevent and help people out of poverty. I look forward to the Storting's consideration of the action plan and hope that we can get a broad political agreement on a completely necessary response to poverty. The government proposes practical measures such as providing long-term beneficiaries of social assistance qualification and work, and providing single-parents with an opportunity to complete education so that they can get a job. Furthermore, the Government proposes to ensure that families with children in need of housing can get it independently of who has financed the housing, and also to provide homeless not only roofs and walls, but also help to live. Work is the safest way out of poverty. The government's objective is that as much as possible in working age should be self-reliant on the basis of their own work. For the individual, work gives income and the feeling of being useful and not least belonging to. The main difference in Norway is between those who have and those who have no work. The best way to prevent poverty and get people out of poverty is to help more people to work. This is also the most effective way to reduce differences. Society needs more hands to work to secure future pensions and good welfare services right now. This is not least the case in the care sector. In the State budget, the government has proposed a number of measures to increase employment and activity through the provision of measures to avoid long-term and passive social benefits. If more people come to work, we have to make sure that work always pays off. We need to avoid welfare schemes creating social security traps, where social welfare is more attractive than taking work or increasing labour input. We have to avoid that welfare schemes prevent people from getting into work and in activity. The government released Ot.prp in June. No 102, following up the Sandman Committee's proposal on temporary unpaid pay and new and more flexible rules for the combination of work and social security. Today's system has a number of unfortunate sides. It's a little flexibility. You have to wait one year before you can work, and you lose to work beyond the ceiling of 1 G. The government has taken this into account and followed up on the proposals that were widely endorsed by the Sandman Committee and the consultation round. The size has been behind the goal of getting more disabled people to work through increased efforts at reactivation and active follow-up from the Social Security Agency. If we're going to succeed in this, we also have to make sure that work always pays off, and avoid traps where people lose weight in increasing the work effort beyond what too many will be one every job. The government has therefore proposed a new system according to the same principles as for the AFP, which reduces the disability and thus the retirement rate as labour input increases. You're 100 pst. You don't have 20 pst at the same time. ability to work. The disability benefit shall compensate for loss of income, not for double income. Several people have to contribute to helping more people to work. This concerns Aetat, which the Government strengthens with 220 new posts. In the case of the Social Security Act, which continues to focus on reactivation of disability, public and private enterprises that have to follow up the commitments of the more inclusive work contract and, in particular, we need to improve coordination of public welfare services. The government is investigating changes in the organisation of Aetat, social security and social services based on the objective of helping more people to work and improving the provision of services to users. The starting point is a unanimous decision in the Grand Duchy during the examination of the budget for this year. The aim is to provide a wholesale notification of this by the end of the year. The government, together with the budget, presented an action plan on drug problems. The government provides targeted and systematic work through the planning period to reduce the social and health damage caused by drug abuse. The draft budget includes increased resources for better prevention work aimed at children and young people, and we are doing more for the heaviest abusers through increased efforts at medically assisted rehabilitation and lowthreshold services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e361	On several occasions, the Labour Party has addressed the problems of poverty with the Social Minister in this process, and on the same occasions we have been assured that the current government has put the fight against poverty on the agenda from its date of accession. Why doesn't it become visible? Why doesn't it become clear in terms of speech or numbers? The Councils of State have previously defined for us in the Storing who are covered by the concept of poverty. These are those with low income, with a lack of financial resources, poor living conditions and a lack of links with the labour market. How, then, can the Minister of Social Affairs defend taking 2 billion kroner from just those she has defined as poor: the unemployed, the unemployed, those with low incomes. I would like to make it clear that the amount free of charge was extended to NOK 1 G, NOK 54 000, following a proposal from the Workers' Party. I don't think the Social Minister should try to doubt the Labour Party's position on that issue. The Sandman Committee is not the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e368	The budget is tight, but it has a social profile. There are active measures. We've been working to avoid the passive social welfare schemes, so that we get them over to active measures to help people in work. We target the measures, and we target them against people who need them the most – the poorest first. That's the priority. If we're going to keep doing everything for everyone, we're not going to get enough done for those who need it the most. On 21 June, when we put forward proposals in the motion for a resolution to amend the reform of the labour market, Hanssen, the representative of the Labour Party, said that the proposal was fully in line with the basic idea of the Labour Party's position on social justice: it should pay off to work. This is based on the line of work. The government has also taken this into account. It's the most important action we can take to help people out of poverty, while looking at the individual and tailoring for it. I have to ask if it is such that the Workers' Party may no longer mean this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e375	I am not going to go on with the debate on those who have gone on here today. In fact, both the Council of State and the social policy spokespersons of individual parties are doing well through the media at the moment. So we'll see how this continues. The Council of State says that this budget has a ‘social profile’. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that before 1 October, a number of posters were hung around the pharmacies in Norway that could indicate that there was an exemption from the excess of disability and old age pensioners in the case of medicines on blue prescription. It was October 1st. On 3 October, the State budget came. Then the Government proposed to remove the scheme that was introduced two days earlier. Apart from all the excesses, there's an increase. Then I ask myself, where is the social profile? Then you get to the problem of poverty. Then there's a group that you're constantly ignoring, and you've been doing that for a long time. That's the minimum pensioners. Minimum pensioners are one of the largest groups of poor people in this country. We're still looking at examples of minimum pensioners who have to choose: Will dinner be this week, or will it be medicine? In terms of social profile, I think it's missing. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Why do you once again totally ignore the problems of the minimum pensioners in this country? Is it because the Council of State's own party in its time showed a complete lack of understanding of the problems that the minimum pensioners had, and together with the Workers' Party at the time, opposed to raising the minimum pension by NOK 1000? Is that what makes the minimum pensioners and the sick in this country once again get dizzy in a state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e386	I think the social profile is good, because we target the measures and arrangements against those who need it the most. The poorest first. And if we're going to do everything for everyone, we're not going to do anything for those who need it the most. We have poverty problems despite the welfare state and good, well-developed welfare systems, so it's about helping those who have fallen out, that's our priority. It requires new solutions, it requires tailoring, and it requires individual adaptation. We're busy with minimum pensioners. But the poorest first, and those who have a lot of expenditure in addition, also belong to that definition. It's not that all the minimum pensioners are necessarily poor, but we're busy taking the poorest first. It may not always be as wise to vaccinate everyone, if only someone sneezes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e394	Both the languages of the throne and this debate have been elucidating in the sense that it has made clear in a very clear way important ideological divisions in Norwegian policy. It is, as the Council of State itself said, a paradox that a government in the welfare country of Norway must present an action plan against poverty. However, social developments with increasing disparities both under this government and previous governments make this necessary. My main objection to the Government's action plan is not only the content of the plan itself, but the fact that, at the same time as presenting the poverty action plan, the Government is presenting a government budget that will continue and reinforce differences in Norway. Increased excesses and penalties for the unemployed and the disabled are just a few examples of this. This is a traditional right-wing policy where the alms of worthy need are a central element. I have lighted both in the Common Era and in the Action Plan against Poverty, but it is therefore not possible to find a single formulation or objective that is moving towards the reconciliation of differences and a fairer distribution in this country, in other words, to see the correlation between increasing differences and the increase in poverty problems. SV is convinced that reducing differences is both an objective in itself in creating a good society and an important tool for eradicating poverty in our country. Being poor in today’s Norway is very much about feeling neglected and outcast, and increasing differences will only reinforce this feeling. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Minister of Social Affairs see any correlation between large and growing differences in society and the ability to succeed in preventing and combating poverty and exclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e403	To the representative of Molvik. Smoothing is important, we've been doing it for years. Our good general welfare arrangements have been part of that measure, but it has not helped the poorest. Despite a discussion and a policy where we have always been concerned about cohesion, we have poor people in Norway today. That's why it's important for the Government to say that the poorest should come first, and that we should have a priority. There is no contradiction between continuing to think of cohesion and being able to give priority to the poorest first. In the case of excesses, I just want to say that the Government has also been concerned about having a protective system for those who have the biggest costs of healthcare, and – to repeat myself – it is not that all those who use medicine on a blue prescription are poor. And the self-proprietary increase that's in there will be NOK 40 more a month, NOK 1.50 a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e413	In the Common Era, the Government expresses many good goals. One of them is ‘to take advantage of the great opportunities Norway has’. A pious wish – though a somewhat tedious concept. An offensive environmental policy based on the principle of sustainable development shall also be «introduced». In Norway, there has often been a rather narrow perception of that concept. I see the need to stress that there are several dimensions in the term «sustainable development». In participation in the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg this fall, we who were there were clearly presented that sustainable development means breadth. Both social, ecological and economic conditions shall be taken into account. The Brundtland Commission in its time said a lot about sustainable development and defined it as a development that satisfies today's needs without destroying the opportunities of future generations to meet their needs. We all want sustainable development. But the emphasis on the different elements may vary from a political point of view. I believe that in Norwegian environmental protection work there are tendencies towards concepts such as: «sustainable development» has become a little too much time-consuming to use. As one of several big business representatives, as mentioned, I was present at the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. We got a good insight into what huge challenges the world is facing. Combating poverty must be the most important theme. For example, for us, it's seaworthy to have clean water. In developing countries, on the other hand, up to 3.5 million people die each year from water-related diseases. Most of these are helpless kids. The summit welcomed the fact that by 2015 the number of people who do not have satisfactory drinking water and usable sanitary conditions should be halved – ambitious but nevertheless inadequate! After the meeting, the Johannesburg press said that the visions were big and the objectives were comprehensive, but at the same time doubted whether there was a willingness and capacity to address the major challenges. There might be good reason to ask. Rich countries have a duty to help, and in an otherwise tight state budget, it is therefore good that the aid budget has received a real increase. I'll give you credit for that. From global to local. I would refer again to the Brundtland Commission, which says that the resource base must be preserved in such a way that economic and social development is possible. In recent years, there are enough people in our rural areas who feel that the sustainable development of their communities is at risk. The situation is marked by instability and decline in the population. Deterioration of the nutritional basis is noticeable. The response of the Government, as expressed in the Common Era, is that district policy should be renewed and improved. That innovation and improvement are probably many who don't feel very reassured by it. For the change of government has been in relation to the districts, at least until now, has just been one of the main problems. Then there is an offensive environmental policy. And Minister of the Environment, Brende, is offensive. However, if developments are to be sustainable, economic and social considerations need to be balanced against the work of more protection and peace. Greater emphasis must be placed on the combination of continued use and protection. The use of resources in a way that does not harm is precisely contributing to the sustainability of local communities. I'm not going to try to make this debate a wild game debate, but just as an example, point out that the continued active use of grazing resources in the field is under-focused when stock targets for predators are evaluated. The pace of the implementation of the National Park Plan showed the power of action of the Council of State. The proportion of the country already protected, which will increase considerably in the next few years, must avoid protective provisions that are not strictly justified by the purpose of protection. Protective measures are good and absolutely necessary, but they should come as a result of threat assessment and real needs. One last example: we need renewable energy, and therefore small-scale power plants that do not interfere specifically with watercourses and nature must also be built in sheltered watercourses, as the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment did in our favour. As I said, sustainable development contains many elements, and different solutions are required both globally and locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e441	I'm one of the people, and most people are cold now, so you get to carry over with me! In connection with the census, we heard that the government was going to bet on child and youth protection. Child protection plays a central role in the work of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs in this autumn and perhaps beyond the winter. We have heard that the Council of State will look at the protection of children in general in terms of both treatment and supervision. This is high time. I am sure that the Council of State has at least as many requests in child protection matters as I have – heartbreaking stories about power abuse and lawlessness, or at least the feeling of incarceration, stories about case handlers who do not treat people with the respect you expect from a public official, about deadlines that are not met, about a child protection that is deeply invading the private sphere with the help of the police. This is just a few examples of things I've heard of. I myself have experienced an arrogance and a shoulder-tiring attitude both among supervisory bodies and in the child protection sector that seems to me very daunting. I would like to stress that I fully agree that we need child protection. There are children in Norway today who suffer from congestion, either through care failure or through some form of abuse. Of course, we are not going to accept this, we are going to agree on that. And that there's a lot of commitment to the individual child protection educator, there's no doubt about it either. But this is a sector that has gained so much freedom of action that when we, as politicians, raise a critical searchlight against child protection, it is immediately claimed that we are engaged in witchcraft. Witch hunting was probably over in the Middle Ages once. A department that does not take the corrigendum worries me. You could say that politicians themselves are responsible for the fact that power abuse exists, all the time we politicians have delegated all responsibility to child protection themselves. What would have happened to the small family that got focused because of an IQ test, if it wasn't around this family were resource-intensive people? I guess we can just assume that this family had no longer existed. What about all those who don't have resources around them? How many children are being unlawfully removed from their family in one year? We don't know that, and it scares me. That is why it is good that we now have a review of the child protection sector. I hope that there will be a wide consultation, and that all parties will be heard, so that we can make a decision that guarantees children's rights and ensures legal certainty in the Norwegian community. Maybe we have to admit that the states don't work after the intention. Let's not experience crying 14-year-olds calling us with just one wish, coming home to mother, but who by coercion have moved from there. When the Council of State says that children should be heard all the way down to the age of seven when it comes to child distribution matters, I actually expect this to apply to young people before they are forced out of their family. Proposals have been made to strengthen the protection of children and young people — yes, there are a number of new approaches and measures to be addressed. What becomes our biggest task is that we, as politicians, take responsibility and ensure that fewer issues come as far as possible to the population, but that measures are put in place for children in a difficult growing-up situation before the problems become so large that they have to remove the children or young people from home. We need a child's protection that's in front, that can go into the cases immediately, and that doesn't hide behind their professional secrecy. We must ensure that Norwegian child protection also complies not only with the law on child protection services but also with the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child. It's no less mistreatment if it's the government that's mistreating. And is it not carelessness also from the public when one experiences in an institution with six clients — six children — having to deal with 93 adult people in larger or smaller job homes? No, I'm happy, and I'm looking forward to seeing to it that we're now together to secure the rights of the children and provide for the best of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e464	During its one-year term, the Bondevik government has made it clear through political elections that it is based on support from the Progress Party. In the past, the lines of justice policy between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Workers' Party, the Centre and the SV on the other. It is sad to note that the Left Party – and the Minister of Justice – which has, through history, been shown to be liberal and humane in the criminal justice area, is now trying to adopt the rhetoric of the right with stricter penalties and more police. From looking at criminal policy in a broader context where crime prevention is at the core, the focus of the Left is now on increasing the criminal penalties for serious crimes from 21 to 30 years in prison, giving private access to arrests, and privatising prisoner transport. The Labour Party believes crime is not something we can buy away from just through money to the police and more stringent prison sentences. All experience shows that increasing the penalties does not prevent more serious killings or violence. We know that a society that's unilaterally committed itself to such a line has the highest crime rate. What is needed is efforts from all — individuals, non-governmental organisations, local and central authorities and the judicial system. Crime prevention does not start with a unilateral threat of imprisonment and more severe penalties. Crime prevention begins with a good family policy, good kindergartens, an inspiring and inclusive school, school leisure arrangements, good leisure activities and good measures for children and young people with special needs. It's this whole thing the Minister of Justice and the Government now seems to be missing. By cutting the school leisure system, cutting the cultural budget and depriving public schools of central crime prevention measures. The fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party have never emphasised this as important prevention measures is not new. On the other hand, it is a very clear new line from the Left and Christian People's Party. Combating poverty is important not only because poverty is an evil in itself, but also because large differences between people create a breeding ground for crime. During the recent visit of the Justice Committee to New York, this was clearly documented. Youth from the poorest strokes was tempted into criminal gangs by promises of cool boots and money. In addition, through their criminal activities, they kept their families alive. A society with small differences is therefore also a good asset in a criminal policy context. The poverty package of the right-wing government turns out to be almost inconclusive. Cuts in the income of sick and ill-satisfied and severe increases in the proportion of excesses exacerbate the situation of those who have the least. In addition, the Government provides for considerable tax relief, the outsourcing of health services, the starvation of municipalities, the down-priority of public schools and, above all, the cut-off of the school leisure system — a policy that will lead to greater differences among people in all these areas. During the last year, the cows have almost exploded. It is not useful to spend more money on the police and the courts if it is not followed up by equivalents to the criminal justice system. What we are now experiencing is a starvation of criminal services, resulting in settlement cows, lack of custody facilities and lack of provision for rehabilitation of prisoners. Through the harvest budgetary procedure, the Left and Christian People's Party make historical choices. It is the choice between the liberal and humane criminal policy that these parties have previously held and the solutions to the right. It is the choice between unilateral action on police and stricter penalties and a comprehensive policy with emphasis on prevention. It is the choice between using prison as a detention centre and modern criminal services based on the rehabilitation of prisoners. I am quite convinced that the Minister of Justice will feel much more comfortable working together on justice policy with the Labour Party than with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e492	From both the government party and the opposition, it has been said today that the new government is pursuing a new policy. It also applies in the field of transport. We also want to change Transport Norway to provide a better transport offer to those who live and drive in our country. Of course, we could have wanted even more investment, especially on the road side next year. But if we look at the last two years in context and compare it to what happened before this period, we've actually had a very nice increase. From 2001 to 2002, we increased the road sector by about 800 million. SEK – 500 million. SEK for investment, 300 million. kr for operation and maintenance, which may be as important as the investments. We also have a very nice increase in the 2003 budget, especially on the operational and maintenance side. But even more important than these slightly short-term assessments, which are important enough, is the long-term perspective, that we are going into and changing some structures in Samferdsels-Noreg in order to keep winning in the long term. We're not doing this to change, but to provide a basis for an efficiency that will give significant counting over the years to come. Let me take some examples. When it comes to aviation, we have a very simple philosophy. It is that lower charges and greater competition will lead to lower air prices. This will increase revenues for the Aviation Agency, thereby improving the development of aerodromes and air terminals. As far as we can see, this has been a success. There have been several competitors on the market, we have helped to reduce prices via charging charges, and we get more players who are willing to go in and do a job for a better flight offer. We can look at the NSB. That's where we've also gone in order to get more change in the NSB, and to create competition. We are in the process of launching the competition next year, in 2003. We're trying to figure out a few distances. The aim is to have full competition in passenger traffic within a few years. This is done to provide a better route offer, to give passengers a choice and to stimulate better train service. Although the NSB is doing a reasonable job, I do not believe that competition will damage that area. Let's look at national road ferries. We have had a very strong increase in the permits for ferry operations in the last few years, but we still have too many cars left, we have too bad frequencies and too many passengers who have to wait unnecessarily long for the next ferry. Competition exposure is one of the tools, as well as spending more money next year. The competition has produced good results so far, and it is my hope and the government's hope that this will also produce results in the future, in the form of a better offer. The biggest process we're in is the conversion into the state road system. We are in the middle of a large and difficult process of conversion in the Road Service. We're dividing the state roadway service into an administrative part and a production part. It can add 1,500 to 2,000 fewer, and it costs several ways. We're in the long term getting more efficiency, but this is very difficult and very expensive – not the process itself, but the cost of giving the many who are being overnumbered, a real one in the end, or the ability to convert to other work. The fact that there are large costs in connection with this has been outsourced by some that we should have avoided entering these processes. The opposite is the case. This just tells us that it should have been done many, many years ago. The costs we now get by helping those who are being overwhelming are the costs we save, not just the next year and the year after, but every year in the future. These are some of the ways we want to work to get a new and better Transport Norway: bigger permits, more money to go and more money to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e507	Unlike the representative Alvheim, this is the first time I have the floor in a throne debate, and I'm going to try to stay within what it's supposed to be. We in SV are exceptionally happy that the district commission came into place in the throne speech. The fact that it now appears to be operational is very good for a number of communities in Norway screaming for a new district policy that works better than the policy we have had in recent years. We are pleased to present a result of this in 2004, so that the 2005 election campaign can hopefully become a real district policy election campaign, where committed politicians around the country are coming on track with exciting new solutions to these challenges, which we all are seeking. We are also pleased that a broad mandate is being given to the Commission. I do not hide that SV had wanted to get started before. We could have thought to get started already in the autumn. We're impatient about this, but we think the most important thing is that it's coming, and that it seems to get a measure that we're satisfied with. Of course, waiting for us to bring up the new district policy, there must be a good deal of things. Last year, our proposal to set up an Enterprise Development Fund for Deprived Areas was voted down. Now we see that fund comes into place. For us, it's very important that we also deal with some old, familiar methods, pending that we get the new stuff up. The new nutrient development fund for economically weak areas, which is DKK 1 billion, is a fund that is going to go heavily into areas that have worn back over time, but I would like to stress that it is not a fund where you are going to throw money into a bad project. The demand for good projects, good ideas, good businesses and good people behind these businesses is going to be there, but when it's in place, you have to dare to be with both longer and heavier to get up in some areas of the country. Inland-Norway in particular is struggling with that kind of problem, and in such a situation it is the responsibility of the Norwegian wholesaler to provide help so that one can get out of the wave valley. Another area mentioned in the census is the modernisation of the public sector. Among other things, the idea is that citizens – or users, as is often said today – should find one door, meet one barrier and one person when you contact the municipality. It is not so careful for the citizens whether it is the State or the municipality that operates, the most important thing is that they get a service done in a good and coordinated way. But what do we see? Well, we see that the state and the state's husband in this context, the state council Norman, have on several occasions said that the state should be an important contributor and almost a driver and a helper so that one can get good solutions when the municipalities will establish public service offices. But what do the municipalities say, what do the rapporteurs say around when they feel that the state is the largest brake block – not just a brake block, but partly sabotage this work? It's going to be a lie when Councilman Norman says that the state is a driver and a helper to get good solutions to modernize the public sector out in Kommune-Norway. Henrik Ibsen wrote in Vildenden about Hjalmar Ekdal, who thought he was a great photographer and lived on a life lie. I experience in this context, when I meet frustrated rapporteurs, that the Council of State Norman is the Government's response to Hjalmar Ekdal. We have to help Norman get out of this. We have to stop running this trick game with the municipalities where they feel that the state is actually a brake block when they're pushers in order to get new, good solutions for the inhabitants in line with the intentions of the government, which the former governments have also had. When you read the census, you'll see if there are any important choices there that we haven't seen before. I'm an unbridled politician, and I'm not sure I see the right choices. But there's one choice that worries me -- I hope I'm wrong, but unfortunately I think I'm right -- and that's what it looks like we're going to build the college. One important reason, I think, is that Norway has been at the top in a number of areas in recent years, is that we have had a school system where you have received the same offer regardless of where in the country you have been or what background you have. If you have rich parents, poor parents, or what the situation has been, we have had a good one-school school where we have striven to give everyone the same offer. I think we're now seeing a tendency to leave that line. It's a dangerous line if we're going to get a class distinction based on the fact that because someone has different assumptions, different support behind them, they're going to get a different training offer than those who don't. If we get this kind of development, I think Norway will eventually not be at the top of the countries that have the best living conditions. Then we'll get a class distinction that will degenerate, and it worries me a lot. In conclusion, I would like to say that as a new politician in the Stortinget, I think it is a great challenge for us all to work and be more honest with the challenges we face, to go more straight on the case and not so much around the pike. I feel to a great extent that in relation to some of the things that we are about to deal with, you become too precise, especially in relation to some of the actors that we actually depend on to work with us in the future. I think especially of the municipalities. The municipalities are probably the most important service provider we have. It is in the municipalities that the services of the elderly, children and young people and also a good part of health services are located, and the municipalities today experience the Stortinget as a counterparty in many contexts, because you do not feel that you speak the same language. We're on the same team. The Norwegian Storing and the municipalities are on the same team. Then I think we should strive to show a greater degree of understanding of what the municipality is saying, so that we do not feel that there is someone who is sussing. Because they have the exact same goal as us, to do it all, the very best for the Norwegian people. Then I think we're going to take them more seriously and bring them much more into a dialogue, so that we avoid part of the scenes that we're now experiencing, with huge screams, with people's reactions, because you don't trust part of what we're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e527	The representative Inge Ryan is known for having a strong and beating heart and commitment to the districts and especially to the jobs of the districts, which also bore the mark of his post. This involvement led him to enter into an agreement on behalf of SV and to promote a Roman number decision in cooperation with the government parties in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002, A smaller and better state ownership. The proposal adopted was as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to examine the need for and organisation of regional funds of significant size linked to each part of the country which can contribute to the increase in capital access for private enterprises in districts and in economically weak areas. The case was submitted to the Grand Duchy by 1 February 2003. With reference to this Decision, we find in the 2003 budget a proposal for the creation of a loss fund with a district-based system. There, the Government proposes to set up a nationwide loan scheme with a grant framework of 500 million. NOK 75 million. kr to a related loss fund. There is reason to ask where it has been of the billion in the agreement. I also want to hear Ryan's response to the proposals in the budget, and when he thinks the billion is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e541	It's the first time in my life that I've been with and made an agreement with the government parties, and that was a pleasure. It was a pleasure because there were negotiations where one felt that it was possible to conduct a dialogue and arrive at a good result. I have full confidence that that billion is in place within the deadline set, 1 February 2003. I have full confidence that the mechanism for that money, how to spend it, in what areas and what kind of instruments you use, i.e. equity, loans, grants, will also be good, so that it serves the areas that this is about. So the answer to the representative Fossli is this: yes, I think this billion will come into place. I also believe that this billion will benefit economically weak areas that actually need this money. I have full confidence in both Gabrielsen and the Government that this will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e549	It's interesting to listen to Ryan's representative. He is engaged, and it is very wise in his message. In many areas, I think Ryan and I have the same goal. But I think we might have a slightly different view of what kind of flexibility we have to expect from those who are engaged in nutrition and industrial development in the districts. The representative Ryan talks with zeal and interest about district development funds and the instrument. I wish Ryan had also been concerned about the importance of having a tight budget. When I talk to nutritionists in the district, there is a need, first and foremost, for a tight budget to be presented. Well, there's a lot of tools and tools involved, and there's a lot of Ryan and I can agree on, but my challenge to Ryan is on the tightness of the budget. Will Ryan now join in arguing equally strongly for the needs of the poor regions in this country in terms of budgetary rigour?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e556	It's a myth that you're constantly facing, especially when you look at television, that SV is a party that doesn't have an industrial policy. It's a myth that we have ambitions to disprove in the course of at least this period we're in. SV has an excellent business policy. We may not have been so good at profiling it, because we've had a little bit limited with the crew here in Stortinget. But we have ambitions to profile our industrial policy during this period, so that you become more aware of it in other parties as well as in the media. So to the question from the representative Momyr. Yes, SV wants a tight budget. We do not want an over-the-counter policy. We have a number of different priorities than the right. We don't want to spend so much on tax havens. We want to have a completely different kind of distribution policy, so that some of those who need the most money get more, while those who have it already get less. But with regard to the tightness of the budget, there is not much distance between SV and Right. We also want a tight budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e563	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e566	The debate of the last few days has made me quite frustrated. I think that parts of the political environment in here are more likely to win a political rhetoric than to talk about political realities. It was also with wonder that I heard some people even speaking on behalf of the Norwegian people out here in the hiking hall. I have to remind you that when a man has 30 pst. digestion in a polling, that means 70 pst. does not provide its support. Then it's a little pompous to raise himself to the voice of the people. In the last few days, there are several voices that have been fighting to get to. Someone had probably expected the throne and the state budget to be completely free of the Christian People's Party and Left colours. Such expectations can only come from people who have never had to cooperate in a government – parties like the Workers' Party, who are used to beating the table and saying that we are the greatest, and that cooperation is to go at our pace, or parties that have lived their lives on the side and would like to join the game, but that have now gone over to the commentator's role. I think that in meeting the people, we would have earned to also highlight what we agree on. For us in the Christian People's Party, family and care are central. In the family, the basis for children’s safety and personality development is laid. It is the parents who have the primary responsibility for their children. We want to facilitate the possibility for parents to take that responsibility. It requires fair distribution and equal opportunities for families. The government announced in the census – and has followed up in the draft government budget – a record investment for the families. I've visited some kindergartens lately, and I know that there are many rulers who are now asking us all not to let there go political prestige in this matter. I can't promise for anyone but my Christian People's Party. But in this way, this prayer is overruled by the President: Let's now work together for the best of our children, for our common goal of providing places for everyone who needs it, and at a much lower price. I am also pleased that we have managed to take care of freedom of choice and justice. Most parents will benefit from either reduced parental benefit in kindergarten or increased cash support. For those not accommodated in kindergarten, the winding-up of the early childhood allowance is fully compensated by the increase in cash support. If you see the entire infant period as a whole, you'll get better out than you do today. I guess we have a total of $1 billion in fresh money. The statistics show us that there is an increase in the number of broken lives. Preventing the dissolution of families and creating good and lasting living conditions is important in order to ensure a safe and stable growth of our children. There are many people who have gradually needed to address family protection. In the Christian People's Party's commitment to family and care, there is a group that is perhaps the weakest, and that needs our extra care and attention, namely those children who need extra protection. And it's my wish for Stortingen to make a joint effort for them together in dealing with the submitted communication on child protection. I want to focus on the Government's offensive to make use of the many unused resources in Norwegian business. The leadership, including the rulers, is an incredibly homogeneous assembly. The proportion of women has been extremely low. But it's also worth noting that most of the leaders have the same education, preferably from the same educational institution, and it really looks like that year is also a qualification. That means we're sitting with a very one-sided competence. The government announces a continued effort in the census to do something about at least one of the factors, namely gender balance. And now I'd like to challenge the businesses of business: what about hiring a philosophy-trained woman of foreign origin, with her subjects from London? It would give creativity and innovation into Norwegian business. I dare say that our business life had appeared to be more robust to tackle challenges with a more diverse management. In this budget we have a clear profile with a great bet on the very poorest on our planet, which the opposition has almost never bothered to comment on. The struggle for the world's poor may no longer be priority areas for the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Despite a very necessary tight budget, the government has given clear and good priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e592	‘Now we are changing Norway’, said Højres Jan Tore Sanner earlier today. Yes, it must be. Government policies are changes that hit the weakest — the unemployed, the sick and the disabled — to name some groups. To them the government said: It has to answer to work. Yes, but that's the very opposite that will happen when the expenses below can only make about NOK 5000 a year next to the social security. It's a mockery of the social-securityed who will contribute to what the health permits, but to which the government now says no. This is particularly true of young women who have become ill with muscle and skeletal disorders. They want to contribute what they can. Minister of Social Affairs Ingerd Schou said earlier this evening from this pulpit that the government will provide new opportunities for people who fall outside. Is this what is giving people new opportunities? Was it this voters who were promised by Bondevik in last year's campaign? And is it really this Bondevik wants to be left as a memorial of his second government? I could have quoted many of the current members of the government from last year's election campaign who said there was such a big right triangle with the labor party government. The list is long. But I don't think it's a big point to drill in this today. The point, however, is that the same people who accused us of being right-wing have put forward an incredibly unsocial budget. In the last few months, we have almost daily received bad news about companies that are being laid down, flagged out or bankrupt. Now it's not unusual that there's a change in Norwegian business, but what's new is that it happens to such an extent and at such a high speed. And we see a government that's largely leaning back and just letting things happen. I've heard radio debates with representatives from the government who have told well-grown people who have worked at an enterprise throughout their lives, that you can only re-school to the care sector. How arrogant it is to be! And it says representatives of a government that is tightening up in the municipalities, where the issue is not exactly to hire many more in the care sector. The Minister of Finance, on the other hand, is most concerned that his office is drier than the labour market situation. At that time, it might have been no other than the budget we received in this area, because it goes into the line of lack of commitment to create more jobs and a lack of understanding of the situation of many of the unemployed. There are now some cases in which both in a relationship lose their jobs at the same time, often in district municipalities where there is a one-sided nutrient base from before. And what are they going to do? The answer they get from the Government is even tighter arrangements in terms of daily allowances and very little commitment to creating new jobs. For example, in my home country, Hedmark, we are in many places in a very challenging situation by laying down several corner stone companies, and there are very few alternatives for the many who lose the job. Many have worked in businesses throughout their working lives, but it also affects young people in the start-up phase, and women are also hit hard. Unfortunately, it does not seem that this concerns the government at all, and then it helps little to talk about helping those who have the worst, when it's actually the very opposite that happens. I don't think I'm particularly credible. It happens in this area, but also in many other areas. That's why the words from the census of helping the poor and those who fall outside, in the view of the Workers' Party, are of little value when there's no follow-up in practical policy in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e609	In my view, a good education system must meet at least three objectives. Firstly, it must be accessible to all, it must provide the population with a high level of education, and it must maintain a high quality of learning outcomes and the learning environment. In my view, Norway has very little to be ashamed of when it comes to the first two objectives. In the international context, we are very well placed both in terms of access to education and high level of education. Our problems are related to quality, which can improve both in terms of learning outcomes and the learning environment. The aim of the Government’s work is therefore to improve the quality of the whole education and research system. I'll briefly comment on some of what we're currently working on. First higher education: the quality reform of higher education is now being implemented in accordance with the plan of progress adopted by the Stortinget. The necessary legal decisions have been taken, new degree structures have been established and already introduced at most state and private colleges. From 1 January onwards, the new independent quality body will be operational. The new funding model has begun to work, and the new and improved study funding will become a reality from 1 November. There is now an impressive and far-reaching work at all state and private higher education institutions in Norway. Study programmes are reorganised and renewed to promote better learning outcomes and to provide enhanced quality in education and research. Organisational, management and management forms are also in the cast. All in all, there is now a profound modernisation of Norwegian higher education, and implementation of the reform brings international attention and attention. Norway is one of the leading countries in the Bologna process, which will create a more coherent area of higher education across Europe. The broad consensus in the Grand Duchy on this reform is a strength and a good and necessary basis for the conversion. The improvements made to the 2003 budget are a different prerequisite. I am pleased that the University and Higher Education Council has stated in an opinion that the 2003 budget provides a basis for the successful implementation of the reform. The reform will be fully implemented in the next harvest, and in the meantime we will start work on a new common law, as the Stortinget has requested. So to primary and secondary. Initial training is in a more demanding phase, at least from the political point of view. There I came to a greater extent to empty tables and empty drawers. I guess we have a little bit of quality in school, and we've done too little to improve it. In summary, the status of Norwegian school is that we have a very high use of resources in international contexts, medium-quality learning outcomes, over-problems related to the learning environment – this may relate to the physical framework conditions in individual schools and in some municipalities, but more serious: discipline and not least bullying problems, which affect too many – and medium and partly low user satisfaction. Initial training is an important part of the Government’s Public Sector Modernisation Programme. Let me mention some items that we're dealing with. First, the contents of the school. Here we have reduced a public sample, the so-called Quality Committee, which makes proposals for spring. But we have already started work on strengthening, among other things. the basic subjects. We've increased the number of hours in Norwegian. We have proposed a new training course for teachers. We implement more targeted provision of continuing education and training for teachers, and we will put in place a scholarship scheme for teachers in the field of continuing training in Norwegian and mathematics. We've set up a national centre for mathematics in training, and we're about to promote a comprehensive strategy for strengthening real science. We will also promote and implement measures that can strengthen literacy, including: related to the use of the school libraries. Secondly, action to improve the learning environment. We're continuing the loan arrangement. We have proposed a law on the working environment of students, and we offer all schools, by the end of 2003, anti- bullying programmes to prevent bullying. Most importantly, work is likely to improve the framework conditions for schools. There is much evidence that increased freedom of choice for pupils and parents and increased autonomy and greater local freedom of action, i.e. less state-level detailed management, could improve the quality of school. We are now investigating a national quality assessment system, which needs to be based on transparency. We have started to give incentives for improvement in school through, for example. the action of bonus and demonstration schools. But perhaps the most important simplification of laws, regulations, agreements and curricula is to strengthen freedom of action in school. Significant experimental activities are now under way. One might say that a large part of Norwegian school is almost operated on a dispensation. These trials are to be evaluated for research, but my impression is that there are currently very positive results. This leads to better resource use, greater local flexibility, better learning outcomes and better learning environment for students and employees. And this vast space of action should be made permanent for all schools gradually. The government will come back to proposals about it. Finally, the proposal to increase freedom of choice for pupils and parents is important. We're going to propose a law on independent schools, so that it's not just the rich who can choose school by choosing their place of residence, but that others also get a chance to take advantage of that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e639	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e642	Let me start by repeating what I said in a line earlier today, that the Workers' Party will call about the public common school. We'll do it both by spending more money and by strengthening quality and content, because it's in the public common school that most students go and will go in the future. When the Minister of Education proposed a major cut in the education budget for this year in relation to the Stoltenberg government, we interpreted it as losing her in the Government. But during this year and of the budget now I have understood that it was an incorrect analysis. The cuts were conscious and part of this government's new line of limiting public expenditure, including the education sector. Now it was cut in appropriations for primary school, and particularly serious are the tight frameworks for the municipal economy where we get almost daily reports on cuts in school budgets and halving the school leisure system. The framework for the lending scheme that we initiated is halved. And the government continues to claim that the school has enough resources. I had at least interpreted it so that also this government would let the schools keep the resources, but the budget says that it's not just enough, but that there's actually too much resources in the schools. It stands in stark contrast to the strong increase in private schools, to a small part of the total number of schoolchildren, which means that some private schools actually get far better economics than many public schools. The government's budget, or the new school course of the Right and Clement, has a clear profile and seems to be based on the following strategy: overfocus weaknesses and problems, so mistrust of the public primary school, starvation of the economy of the municipalities and schools, and the Hiere's overall goal of privatisation and the two-way distribution of the school system will be heard more easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e651	I can agree with one thing that was suggested here, although I do not have the blame and responsibility for it alone, as it was claimed. I actually agree with Sigurd Allern, who said the other day that he is concerned about the public school, based on the media image and the black paint that now applies to describing the public school. Many of the scary images that we are now drawing in the media debate and the political debate that is taking place do not give a representative picture of Norwegian school. I tried to give a sober assessment, but it does not match those scare images. Then to the budget. The current budget of the Ministry of Education and Research is a very good budget. It corresponds to what universities and colleges have wanted in relation to the quality reform, and it knows the representative, who is in the committee and has received letters from their association of interests. And it's a very good budget for research, because it's a historically high investment, among other things. in long-term basic research. In addition, we strengthen, among other things: the possibilities for research into business through the tax deduction scheme. In the case of school budgets, there is little budget of the Ministry of Education and Research. It's municipal economy. Of course, school money and resources are very important. I agree with my sister, who says that quality costs. But my sister also knows that sometimes you can buy something that seems to be quality. It's probably also true that quality costs a little more than it needs to cost, that you might have wasted resources along the way. We're betting more at school than almost any other country, and we're going to keep doing that. How much we're betting, we actually don't know in advance, we only know that in retrospect, because it's the municipalities that decide exactly how much we're going to bet. We have figures for 2001–2002 that show that there is no decline in the use of resources in municipalities. Norwegian municipalities prioritise school economically very high, far above what they have to do according to minimum standards, etc. And that's great. I think we should spend a lot of resources in school. We can still be at the top of the world, but I think it's time that we also get involved in how we increase quality and how we can get more out of resources. There have been shortages in Norway so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e662	Quality in school is important. Let me also say that the reality for students and schoolchildren is quite far from the quality that is often described from this pulpit, and perhaps especially now from the government team. That's two things. One is – and there may be different statistics, but at least there are pretty clear recordings and signals from a lot of worried parents – that you experience cutbacks in school. A year ago, this government launched, among other things: As his investment in school and quality, 100 million. kr to an extra Norwegian hour from second to fourth class steps from the autumn of 2002. Did that money come out? Are you sure they're being used as they were supposed to be used? Have they come to a single student at all and to a single class hour, and how can you possibly be sure of that, when the money has been added to the framework grant to the municipalities? The second is: the State Education Office, which has the supervisory authority in the counties, comes with a concerned and open-minded eye on cuts that are well done in the school sector. They suggest that you are moving towards law enforcement, and in part they have also registered that there are actually signs of cuts that can lead to crime, i.e. that you get a worse training offer than the training law prescribes. What will the Council of State do? The Council of State is the top authority of the State Education Office. What will the Council of State and the Government do if a cut is found that causes the municipalities to break the Training Act? Then it is a bad answer if you answer that this is the responsibility of the municipality, because it is a government authority to ensure that the law is not broken. Then you have to give a better response to students and parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e672	In general, Norwegian municipalities have a very high resource use compared to other countries, but also a very high resource use relative to what they need. The way we have called for minimum standards for schools can make it a little bit difficult to figure out what is minimum resource use. But if you try to figure that out, you'll find that Norwegian municipalities are actually far above what's minimum. You can never in a system where you have local democracy and local autonomy, guarantee 100 pst. that a municipality will not cut or reduce budgets for schools. Even if there was an enormous amount of resources, so that even SV was satisfied, it could be that a municipality cut. There are large differences in the use of local resources. I have to stress: it doesn't correspond to differences in results at all. There is no correlation if you look at the statistics, but there are huge differences in resource use. I have seen some numbers that might indicate that approx. 1/8 of the differences in resource use can be explained by the fact that municipalities have different finances, e.g. poor finances, while a total of 40 pst. may be explained by different priorities. But this difference in resource use is not reflected in differences in results. There may be municipalities that use little resources that have very good results, and municipalities that use a lot that have very good results. We don't know if it happens cut before later. With the information we now have for the 2001–2002 school year, it appears that there have been no changes in the use of resources in the municipalities as a whole until the students. So it seems that the municipalities have actually absorbed the salary increases that the teachers have obtained and are still able to use the same resources on the students. In the case of Norwegian hours, it is an example of some form of ear tagging, so it is to be found. However, the representative Sortevik has a problem, and there is a problem between the levels of government. If the Storting adopts reforms that are not fully financed, or if the Storting earmarks and detailed governance are too much in relation to the municipalities, there will be less room for action left for the municipalities, and then the problems can be said to be elsewhere, perhaps even in the same sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e679	Norway is not different from other countries in terms of the amount of money we spend at primary school. The latest comparable OECD figures from 1998 show that Norway spends less money than Denmark and about the same as Sweden and Iceland. Finland is still slightly below that. There are many reasons why Finland spends less money, including: They have a very homogeneous population of few immigrants. But I find it much more interesting to discuss the situation in Norway than to compare other countries that have other school systems. It is important to listen to what students, parents and teachers have to say to create a better school. The message from them is clear: we are not able to get a good enough training situation today because there are many places where there is a complete lack of basic things, such as school books, enough teaching resources to provide students with adapted training, indoor air in which to live, or food for the home school. Anyone who has a close relationship with the school knows that there are no means to redispatch, as the government parties are still talking about. And as long as the framework conditions are not there to create good training opportunities for students, we cannot expect students to do better than by means of international studies. Fortunately, some surveys are more uplifting in the performance of Norwegian school students. One example is the CIVIC survey, which came a while ago, which shows that Norwegian students are at the top in terms of democratic understanding and participation. Nevertheless, I agree with the Council of State that we should not settle for mediocre results. But then we have to be willing to do something that really helps students' training situation, that is to put schools financially in a position to provide students with a learning offer that can measure up to the best. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State agrees to this, and what action the Council of State will take.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e692	First, a comment on the CIVIC study mentioned. It is quite right that Norwegian students score fantastically when it comes to understanding and having knowledge of democracy – a little too good, some parents might say! But what I want to say to that is that there's no negative correlation or negative relationship between being able to math and Norwegian and being good in democracy. It's not like you have to be bad at reading and writing to be good at democracy. So I mean it's possible to have ambitions about both parts, and to increase the quality as well. And becoming a good democratic citizen probably also requires that you can read and write. In terms of resource use, Norway is at a global peak. There are a few countries ahead. I'm guessing that we've been rising even more lately, among other things. Because we've had an increase in teacher's wages, which is very good. The most important explanation of our total resource use compared to other countries is high teacher density. That means that the OECD average has 40-50 pst. more students per year. teachers other than Norway. So the representative here says that we should listen to students and teachers, and I do that with great interest every day. Because what's paradoxical is that even though we use all these resources and have the high teacher's density, it doesn't feel well enough in school. You feel that it's very tight, that the action space is small, that you might have to cut, etc. And then I ask myself, and that's what I think everyone has a duty to ask, where's this money gone? What's happened to them on the way, because it's so little left when they get to school? I believe that the way we run the school, and organise the school, makes it actually inefficient resource use – this is the responsibility of politicians – and that we don't focus enough on quality either. Let me give you a few examples: the way we organize the teachers' working day, the way we organize the day of teaching, how much is determined by central agreements, by central laws and regulations, and the opportunity we give, for example. to the principals to be heads of schools. Rectors tell us that they spend between half and all their time just managing and interpreting the working time contract. Then there will be very little time left for management.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e703	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e706	The census says that the government will actively fight organized crime and money laundering. This is a clearly important area to put forces on. The question will be whether the Government's ability to use the means necessary to bring this duck to life. Especially the Christian People's Party wants to appear like the party that will bet on prevention. By preventing it, a saving of large resources can always be thought of repairing the damage that has occurred. But this obviously does not apply to organised crime, which has its basis in the smuggling of alcohol and tobacco. It is the strange cloudy charging area that causes the smuggling of these goods to take place. It's to make money that smugglers start their organized activity, it's not because they feel no excitement by moving goods from one country to another. So it is the Government and former governments that have provided groundwork for this type of organized crime. It would not have existed if one had had a different tax regime in Norway. But what should really concern the Government is how this matters to people's sense of justice as to the need to comply with laws and regulations. When a level of charges appears to be so unreasonable that large parts of the population in all parts of the country either buy smuggler liquor, smuggle it or burn it at home, respect for Norwegian law is broken down. Then there is an imminent danger that other Norwegian laws will be viewed with the same eyes. One shall not ignore the attitudes of the parental regeneration to and compliance with Norwegian law in relation to Norwegian drug charges, etc. are relevant to the attitudes of more young people towards illicit drugs, such as drugs. So we get the dangerous effect of charging policy – which, in this way, gives this way of looking at Norwegian laws – that a strong reduction in people’s interest in complying with most of the laws of the Kingdom is achieved. And such an attitude must be more important to combat than the need to drag money into the treasury. We know that this organised crime has several forms, and that organised crime, such as smuggling, trafficking and drugs, is often woven together within fairly similar groups. Then we cannot continue with a policy that creates offenders of normal families in this country. The best form of prevention will be to remove what causes private individuals to financially support organised crime. As mentioned, there are several forms of organised crime, and it also has its limits on sources of funding for terrorists around the world. What action is the Government willing to take in the fight against other organised crime and, where appropriate, terrorist networks? What we know is that the Government will not introduce measures that our European neighbours have already put in place. One example is the fight against organised crime through space listening. It is legal in France, but not in Norway. Actually, we send an invitation to international gangs by saying clearly that in Norway we will not expose poor drug cartels or these unfine methods. We see organized crime and money laundering spreading and becoming stronger and more and more speculated. Then it's strange to witness that a government doesn't want to use instruments like real monks.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e725	After an election campaign in which we heard school, school, school, the expectations of this state budget have naturally been skyrocketing. Black paint of Norwegian school, says state councillor Clemet today. That black paint I want to say that the Right has had the primary responsibility for, as they have driven the rhetoric towards Norwegian school in opposition in recent years. The Bondevik government went high on the track when the 2003 government budget was presented. This was the government's swing test. The government was to reach the exam, for finally the Right was to realise its election vows, or at least put its clear school stamp on the budget. The fact that the Right became the budget win of the year among the government parties is now crystal clear. This budget is an unsocial budget, with a total tax burden of 17 billion dollars in two years. It's the elderly, the unemployed, the sick and the schoolchildren who have to bear the costs of the government's prioritization of taxes. We see that the drugs are getting more expensive. We get more unemployed. We get a lot of tightening in the day-to-day pay system. And we get cut in the education sector. Our smallest children will get less resources in their school days. In my opinion, this is less for the poor, and then this is an unsocial budget. The Government has selected the page. We clearly see this on the education budget. Municipalities have a number of statutory tasks. But what's going to help when the government transfers 500 million? kr less in the free income of the municipalities? The reality is that municipalities need to give priority to the statutory tasks they have to cut out. Oddvard Nilsen said earlier today that we don't know how much money is spent on school next year. But what Oddvard Nilsen and Right knows is that two out of ten municipalities report that they may still be able to keep the scandal against the Government's order, but that eight out of ten municipalities have to make the offers to people worse. Then we know that there won't be any more school in Kommune-Norway. According to the Government, this is a budget with a clear commitment to education. It's a commitment to halve the school leisure system, it's a commitment to give DKK 1 billion less to municipalities and county councils for upgrading and repairing school facilities, it's a commitment to cut dramatically in ICT measures, and it's a commitment to introduce a dramatic increase in medicaments. I want to claim that this is a budget with bet for the few. It's a budget for everyone with high incomes and big houses and for those of us who are healthy and fast. I also want to say that this is a budget that gives me a feeling that they want to go back to the past, with the woman at the kitchen bench. Many of the budget measures go in the wrong direction with regard to equality. Many of the measures affect women, for example through: increased abstinences in medicinal products. And we know that the majority of our minimum pensioners are women. The education budget is on the line. We see that through the cuts and the lack of bet. At the same time, the Government says one thing. The opposition on its side is being blamed today for one-sided black paint. And then one might wonder: what is rhetoric, and what is reality? I believe that we find the answers in the cold facts: It is less for students in public schools than students in private schools. There is a slowdown in the rehabilitation of schools, and there is less quality in public schools. 30 000 distance learning students lose all support for continuing education. I can take an example, municipality of Rälingen. That's where the price in the SFO will go up by 3,000 kroner a year, and in addition to this price increase, they might have to halve the offer. The cuts in the school sector are a mockery of those who thought they'd get a better school after the big shot. None of us – neither in this room nor out in the population – heard the rhetoric that Right now says. That the Right wants to remove state support for the SFO is no news. The Minister of Finance announced last week that the cuts in the SFO would lead to an increase in the excess of NOK 150. But what does the Minister of Finance intend to say to all the parents out in work who have their kids in the SFO, who are facing a cut in the SFO offer, and where one of the parents has to work part-time because of the municipality's cut in the offer? I think this is a reality we have to start taking inwards. In many families today, both parents are out of work. We know that they need care and supervision for small school children both before and after school. The school leisure system shall facilitate play, cultural and leisure activities, based on the age, level of function and interests of young people. And it's going to give our kids security. Children with disabilities should also be given good development conditions in the school leisure system. What, though, does it help parents in Rälingen or, for that matter, in Troms that it is lawful for all municipalities to have an offer of school leisure arrangements before and after school, when the financial conditions are not there? Is this a family policy that focuses on the best interests of children? I want to demand the Christian People's Party. Where have you been? It's not useful to make our schoolchildren more efficient! This budget contains a clear private profile. There is a large-scale commitment to the private alternative in the field of education. It's not surprising. On the other hand, it is surprising to see the difference in private school spending compared to public school spending — more than 400 million. to the private schools in this budget. In comparison, the government claims to be paying 380 million. kr on quality in primary school, but of this sum, at least as I can read the budget, is only 20 million. NOK new increase. We have heard from several representatives today that much of this involves paying out to so-called bonus schools. Is that the quality concept of the Right? I think that is actually a crumb to the few, and also a rather arrogant attitude – yes, I want to express myself so strongly as that this limits to trickery to students and parents, who had actually waited for something quite different. The working party will support the Right in relation to increasing the quality concept and the content of it in the Norwegian school. But this is also about what we put into the quality concept, and which end we start at. In fact, the reactions of the organisations with training as their main interest are quite coherent. Many today call for warning of the school crisis, many believe that this is an attack on equal rights to education. The budget is an invitation to establish more private schools, which in turn may involve the closure of our public schools. This is alarming. I know the government's proposal for private school law, which makes today's school situation considerably worse. This means that several private schools are established, with automatically good and, not least, stable public funding. I want to say that it might seem as if the public school could go away if the Right gets to keep going, in the dust of very strong Right Ideological Councils. But I had thought that there were also other government partners in this government who would hold both a hand on the steering wheel and perhaps also a foot on the brake. This also means that the Government will provide better financial conditions for private schools than for public schools. We know that the government wants to increase the state subsidy to the private schools to 90 pst. The cost per person school places vary greatly in our country. Our common school is decentralised, and we have an integrated offer that has a very clear cost page. This means that there is a difference in the cost of a school place in Smøla versus what it costs to give a school place in Oslo. Never have we seen a greater commitment to school in Norway, both from individuals and from organisations. They have to be taken seriously, and then the government should also be honest with its intentions with its policy: that there is a clear priority of the 10,000 children who are in private school, and not the nearly 600 000 children who have room in our public high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e768	Higher education and research have increased by 11 pst. in the budget. I don't think it can be called a cut, but rather a bet. The representative of the Beckekmell Orheim is concerned that the public school will disappear. Then I'll remember that 1.7 pst. by students in Norwegian school attend private school today. There's a given number of students going to school. The only thing we're looking for is trying to give them the freedom of choice to choose in public or in private. The public school isn't going to go away, just as little as the private school is going to go away. The Labour Party and the representative of Bekkemel Orheim are fighting the reform because they believe 1) that it is a problem that there are only strong religious schools that are approved, and 2) that the schools are just too parents with money. So they all have the spikes in relation to the proposal for a new law on high school education and the proposal to increase support for private schools. Instead, they will cut that support. This is where I lose the thread in the reasoning for the Workers' Party. The proposal on stand-alone schools is designed to ensure that not only religious or pedagogical alternative schools are approved, but also other schools that represent some kind of alternative, or perhaps just like the public school, but just want to do some things a little differently. And the point of increasing public support is just that it's not just those with fat wallets who are going to be able to send their children to private schools in the future as well. In summary, there is a great paradox for me: the two things that the Workers' Party fights most strongly in relation to the reform of high school and the question of private schools, namely that there are religious schools that receive recognition today, precisely because that is the law, and then that you have to pay some high sums to have your children walk there, are the two things that you are absolutely sure to maintain if the Workers' Party gets what they want in school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e779	First of all, what the representative asked Ms Eriksen to do, namely the initiative. She cannot understand how it is possible to present this budget as a lack of commitment to education. Then I just want to record the list I have here. It's just one of several sides of cut in this sector, and we can ram several hundred million in cuts on the education side. This is something quite different from what the Right promised throughout the election campaign. What the right has tried to tell the Norwegian voters for many years now is that we have had a bad public school, that it was important to get more quality into the Norwegian school, and if a few were to do so, a government had to be willing to spend more money at school. Now we know the result of the bet that the right has added up to, and then we know that there hasn't been enough money to distribute to school from the total pot. Then I think it's completely honest and fair that the Right is standing up and saying, "We've made a choice, and our choice is that we're betting on the 1.7 pst. Let's add over 400 million. kr, but unfortunately we have not found room for the same bet at public school. We also see the cuts in the school leisure system. This is about our smallest children, and I can't understand that a party that talks about values and security over and over again will have a situation where our children get keys around their necks. So second of all, in a time when we might experience that our public school is being eaten off with almost nothing, all the parties have to give priority to what we're going to spend on money -- even in the private schools. If this decline in public school continues, there may be more parties in this room who will start asking critical questions about what taxpayers' money is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e786	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e789	In the newspapers, after the state budget was presented on Thursday, we have been able to read many negative comments. Many of the comments suggest that one has commented before entering the budget. It is also made a major point to say something negative about the Christian People's Party. On Tuesday 8 October, the newspaper, formerly working paper, wrote the following under the heading «Too much black paint»: ‘a part of the criticism from some parties and environments is pure black paint without coverage in reality’. The government has had a very demanding task of bringing together demands to reduce public expenditure on business concerns and to comply with very costly decisions in Stortinget. One of the challenges has been the unbridled and underdeveloped kindergarten reform, where the goal is good, but the way of working was unexplained. In this very demanding situation, the budget has been provided with a device with which the business community is well satisfied. There is a good basis for both the interest rate and the interest rate to go downwards. It is one of the most important things for business, municipalities and families. The budget has been given a good rural profile with both the filling of municipal food funds, large transfers to regional development work in the counties, district funds and the notification of the creation of a district commission. The funds for the fight against poverty are increasing from 250 million. in 2002 to nearly 600 million. kr in 2003. The co-operation government is the first government to have seen a systematic effort to end people suffering from poverty. The government has given priority to the poorest. That means someone has to come after. Another innovation is that once a so-called roof 2 has been introduced. That means chronically ill people who have expenses over NOK 4 500 per person. years to stop training institutions, subject to dental treatment and physiotherapy, these are covered. It is a whole new scheme for a patient group that has had tens of thousands of dollars in private expenses in addition to the disease plagues. Many of these are also disabled people. The government has also refused to reduce the tax on alcohol. The Christian People's Party is very satisfied with this, and it is in line with the signals we have given earlier in debates in the Stortinget. The government has been committed to stepping up both prevention and treatment measures in the field of drugs. It's very much needed. Alcohol consumption among young people is alarmingly high. It points towards a very negative long-term effect, with major health, human and economic consequences. In addition, abortion prevention measures will be pursued. The national cancer plan will be completed and the psychiatry escalation plan will be followed up. There's no reason to argue that the municipalities have a hard time finding that there are high-recorded promises. In spring, it was expected that the municipalities would have an increase of NOK 2–2.5 billion. The budget provides NOK 2.6 billion plus DKK 1.7 billion to cover the pension costs of the student settlement. There is a strong commitment to both kindergartens and cash support. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to maintain the freedom of choice of young children's parents and to oppose them to some extent powerful and highly intolerant and unsolidaristic attacks from the socialists in this matter. The list of good Christian People's Party priorities could be made long on both church, cultural and family budgets and other budgets. We in the Christian People's Party notice that the opposition is attacking the Christian People's Party by claiming that we have not been able to get through to our affairs. There is an untrue propaganda, even if it is repeated again after the last time. It's quite striking what kindness the same parties have got for our business after we went into the government. It wasn't like this before. Now everything the opposition wants to angle negatively, contrary to all the good Christian People's Party stood for earlier. Of course, the criticism has one goal, simply to get the Christian People's Party out of government cooperation with Right and Left. The result is that a contribution to an increase in political momentum. In a demanding situation for the country, people must be able to expect all serious parties to raise a constructive budgetary criticism, one of which can jointly seek collective solutions for the benefit of the country. This does not mean that a person should be able to conceal political dissatisfaction, but one should also be able to interpret it in a normal dimension and not in black to create the impression of a distance greater than what it really is, and in that way search for the voters' political favor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e827	Norway has, as we know, built its prosperity along a long coastline rich in natural resources. This has led to a greater spread of activity and housing than the one we find in most other countries. The special thing about Norway, therefore, is not that people live all over the country, but that we have a nutrient base all over the country. As there was a shortage of productive land along the coast, farmers learned to exploit land and clean up land in the most inaccessible places. Fishing activities led to most of the coast being populated. Based on the emerging trading venues, we also received a shipping industry with related activities, which gradually became more and more internationally oriented. It is today, and has been for a long time, one of our most important industries. By exploiting the power of the foot, it grew up industrial sites where the power was readily available, often at the heart of the fjords. Over the past 30 years, we have also made use of natural resources such as gas and oil. This has led to new growth along the coast. With the expansion of Snow White, this activity has now reached all the way up to Finnmark. Today, more of the traditional industries are under pressure. It affects the districts. It's a development that it doesn't use to stop. Restructuring in business and primary industries has been ongoing. I can highlight it with one example. If we look at agriculture, today we produce as much food as we did 50 years ago, but that happens with less than 30 pst. of the hours spent at that time. In the future, if we are to continue to have growth-intensive districts, we will not have to put obstacles to natural structural changes. We have to make sure that we are part of this development. What the districts and businesses need now is, above all, accountability and an economic policy that reduces interest rates and strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. A Norwegian company does not sell its toothbrushes in other countries because the crown price is high, and that company decides to move its business to another country. Enterprises also get tough if interest costs increase, for example. by 1 pst., as a result of the fact that individual parties want to spend more money for all good purposes. The government proposes a responsible economic policy that takes more account of the long-term nature of rural jobs than short-term happiness and the popularity it will provide, with a few larger budget appropriations. The co-operation administration prioritises safe jobs and new jobs rather than artificial respiration. It is a long-term and good solution for the districts. I am proud that we have managed to present a tight budget. Nor do I hide the fact that I am happy that we have an instrument that seems to be becoming more and more accurate in terms of districts and economically poor areas, but I am convinced that the most important thing is to have an economic policy that will ensure that the rural workplaces in this way are safe. We want to join in and change District Norway. We want to join in and make District Norway more robust.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e842	Norwegian foreign and security policies have been characterised by broad consensus over the past 50 years. It has given ordinary people security, but it has also given Norway respect beyond its borders. This is now also the case with defence policy. I then disregard the Advancement Party, which has put itself entirely on the sideline of that matter. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party made a defence policy settlement in June of this year, a settlement that ensures stability and predictability through a comprehensive reorganization period both nationally and in NATO, and it is particularly important when we have entered a time of great international uncertainty and unforeseeability. As the global situation is now, in the fight against international terrorism, with ethnic conflicts, new unstable regimes and inflammable regional conflict areas, people in Norway must be assured that politicians have the ability and the will to take responsibility at the forefront of defence and security policy. What characterises the threat picture now is unforeseeable, and it was the unforeseeable thing that marked both 9 November 1989 and 11 September 2001. Both events completely changed the international situation, the balance of power and our domestic defence policy. On November 9, 1989, people blew up the hated wall. The new order of time – not to say disorder – starts here. We have had the most dramatic changes in European and global security policy since 1945. On 11 September 2001, the new threat images became reality, and the world never becomes what it was. In addition, we see many new worrying natural disasters that can result from increasing environmental pollution and climate change. The Labour Party showed flexibility and a strong willingness to cooperate to achieve a wide-ranging defence policy settlement – for the benefit of most people, for people's security and for Norway's security. In fact, so did the Minister of Defence. Then I expect the government to show the same flexibility to get the necessary civil protection measures, to ensure the development of effective vulnerability prevention and preparedness to ensure the continuation of Norwegian society's functions in the event of a crisis, war or terrorist attack. I assume that the government will not allow it to go ahead in fixed positions when the size of these days treats St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 on social vulnerability. I'm actually surprised that it's taken so easily by the government to ensure a total concept of preparedness and social security within a total defence framework. People need to know, and they have a right to know, that they're safe whether they're going to a concert in Oslo Spectrum or at a football game at Ullevål Stadium. They need to know that we have a preventive preparedness against bacteriological weapons, that in a large hotel fire or a bomb attack, we have health preparedness – the necessary cooperation between civil protection and defence to deal with such situations when the crisis is a fact. We are facing both deliberate and unintended threats. Intended threats include: terrorist attacks, organised crime or sabotage to eliminate societal functions. Unintentional threats are major flood disasters, snowslides, forest fires and hotel fires. In these cases, the distinction between national and international security is clarified. The Norwegian people deserve that politicians have solutions, are solution-oriented and provide concrete proposals and actions on issues such as those relating to people's security, as well as welfare, security, work and functioning societal functions. It also calls for a broad majority on social security measures, and I would like to point out that in Denmark a civil protection agreement has actually been reached covering all parties. I would therefore ask that everyone show the will to cooperate in a matter that affects all the citizens of Norway and their security. My appeal goes primarily to representatives of the government parties and to the government to show flexibility and flexibility, so that we can create solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e878	The government says in the guise that a new screening system will be proposed for excesses related to healthcare that are not part of the free card system. The government further points out that during the autumn, there will also be the promotion of a growing message of action against poverty. Both of these measures have now been announced to the EEA. The government has made a proposal for a self-share 2 scheme for chroniclers, as the Stortinget has requested. But what is not mentioned in particular is that the Government covers this whole scheme, plus a number of other measures in the budget, by significantly increasing the proportion of health care. It is with some wonder to read in the State budget that this government will remove a system of exemption from the prob lems of medicines on the blue prescription for disability and old age pensioners, which was introduced as late as October 1st this year. This was a measure that could really help, among other things. the large proportion of the country's minimum pensioners, who must also be said to be poor. It is not a believer when the Government claims that it wants to do something about poverty, while at the same time introducing schemes that directly affect a large part of the country's poor. The plan promoted by the Government to combat poverty in Norway is totally bare for actions that would help this particular group of poor people. With regard to this scheme, we should be aware that a week ago, pharmacies hung up posters saying that old-age and disability pensioners would be exempted from the payment of a lump sum as of 1 October. Then came the state budget two days later, on October 3rd, and the government removed a scheme that very many had looked forward to. I have to say that there is not much humanity to trace when one in practice forces older, sick people to choose between medicine and food, because very many are actually in that situation. And this is happening in one of the richest countries in the world. But it doesn't end there: the government increases the excesses almost all over the mountain in the case of sick people and in the health care system. It's about doctors and physiotherapists, the excesses are increasing all over the line. Then you can ask the question: Is this a so-called socially good budget, as some claim by the Government? Another area where the government also shows a total lack of understanding of and does not want to do anything about is pensions. We've seen that for a number of years, and this is especially true for the Right, but now also for the Christian People's Party and the Left. The situation is that we have a plan that married and cohabiting pensioners get their pensions curtailed by 25 pst. because they have chosen that form of life. This does not apply to single, married and cohabiting pensioners. This is an unsolvable abbreviation. This is a scheme that deprives persons of a legal pension. There's something that you've paid for in popular terms, and that you should get back. It's time to take these groups seriously and make sure that they get their own legal pension and don't become part of the curtailment that's in today's system. I hope the government does something about this, and I expect it too. And so in terms of patient treatment: there's no increase whatsoever in the budget for patient treatment. There is no room for treating more patients than is the case this year. At a time when you can actually do something about waiting time, you can get the waiting lists down, the hospitals have become more effective and can treat more patients, so the government is not willing to increase the budget chapters so you can get a further reduction in the waiting lists. When this harvest is over and you're left with some sort of budget in this room, I hope at least that there's a budget that helps sick people in this country more than the present proposal is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e901	We have three speakers left on the list of speakers that we have foreseen to have the floor at tonight's sitting. It's Jorunn Ringstad, Svein Flåtten and Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e904	The government lists good intentions in many areas. But what's interesting is to keep the good intentions of the throne up against the budget that the government has presented. The budget gives an important indication of whether the Government will deploy resources and measures to achieve the objectives listed in the Common Era. If we compare the census and the budget, it goes against one that in many areas there is a great distance between life and learning for this government. In the languages of the throne we can read: ‘The government will contribute to ensuring the settlement, value creation and viability of communities throughout the country’.» This is a goal we in the Center Party can support the Government fully. But it's hard to believe that the government is serious when we see what the government has done in 2002 and will do in 2003. The government has a goal of creating rural development, while in 2002 it has carried out significant cuts in budget lines to stimulate precisely the creation, value creation and viability of communities throughout the country. Although some of these items have been slightly increased in the 2003 draft budget, it will be totally dramatic if we see the years 2002 and 2003. Eirik Fiva, who is the leader of the Nord-Norway and Nord-Trøndelag districts, today expresses in the nations that he is strongly provoked by the government's claim that they are now investing in regional food development. Eirik Fiva says it this way: ‘It is quite hollow when they say that the county councils now ‘have the opportunity to strengthen their role as regional development actor’. There were dramatic cuts made for 2002 and a slight increase for 2003 did not occur.’ These are strong words from one who works abroad and sees the impact of the Government's policy. The fact that there is a large cut in the district effort also admits municipal minister Erna Solberg in the same newspaper, i.e. the Nations of 9 October 2002. Thus, government is cutting sharply in favour of industrial development and district development, but still claims to ensure viable communities throughout the country. This is going to be a little daunting. Developing good communities across the country depends on many factors. Good infrastructure is one of the determining factors for business and construction. If we are to be able to use the resources we have in the country, we need to facilitate it so that we can take care of the lack of activities and competences that exist throughout the country. We also need to facilitate the further development of business. Good infrastructure is decisive for good regularity of business transport and also for reducing transport costs and distance costs. In the previous period, Right used many debates in the Storting to criticise other parties for the lack of willingness to invest in commercial investment. Oddvard Nilsen, then leader of the Committee on Transport, was diligent to maintain Right as a party that was responsible for increasing investment in infrastructure. Right was a party to trust in the emphasising of business and community relations, was the clear birth of the previous period. We have seen little willingness to implement previous promises of investment in infrastructure after the Right came into government. On the contrary, we feel that a Right-dominated government is providing a budget with reduced road investment. This is quite different from the promises contained in the national transport plan. Therefore, it may not be so strange that such an important area as infrastructure is not mentioned in the throne number. The only thing being said is: «The government will expose road production to competition and reorganise its production activities in the state road network of a public limited liability company.» Is this the only response of this government to the major challenges facing the road sector? Furthermore, it is tempting to ask: Has this become Christian People's Party's policy? It was not this Christian People's Party for the previous period. In his speech today, Parliamentary leader in the Right, Oddvard Nilsen, underlined that an economically responsible arrangement is the most important one for this government. However, even if a financial position is at the bottom of the budgetary process, the Government has made its priorities within the budgetary framework. That is why there is a bad reason from the Right if this is to be the explanation that infrastructure has had a lot to do in several important areas. The explanation is probably short enough that the Right in Government does not prioritise infrastructure high enough to make room within what the Government calls a responsible financial framework. This is wrong with the Right-Representatives of the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e939	The current year budget of the Swedish Cooperative Government marked a time gap and a change of direction in Norwegian fiscal policy. In 2000, the Norwegian level of taxation was among the highest in the world. At the top of this, we received for 2001 a budget from the Stoltenberg government with the biggest tax increases ever. After giving a clear message about last autumn’s major elections, the Norwegian people could testify that the Swedish Cooperative Government proposed and adopted historically high tax reliefs with a total of over DKK 12 billion in the 2002 budget. And not enough with that, the Government's plans and objectives are during the period to implement total tax reductions of a total of NOK 31 billion. This change of course in the Norwegian tax policy was absolutely necessary. It is our value-creating business that provides the basis for the income and employment that will keep the welfare community up and further develop it. It is the ability to create values in the mainland economy that will determine the welfare level we can maintain in the future. It is these objectives and instruments that are central once the Co-operation Board has chiseled out its fiscal policy for this major period. In the basis of the Government, there is a central theme of a change of course in fiscal policy to improve the framework conditions of business, and not least the need to pay for working, to earn a living, and to be able to live as much as possible from their own labour income. The result of the elections last year in disfavor of the tax increases was thus clear speech. The two budgets of the Cooperation Government have been just as clear. Last year there was a budget of considerable tax relief. Once the impact of tax reliefs in 2002 and the proposal for 2003 is fully implemented, we will have achieved a reduction of DKK 17 billion, i.e. well-half-way in relation to the objectives of the Sem Declaration. The 32-year-old temporary investment levy was finally abolished on 1 October, much to the satisfaction of the business community. It is half a billion each month in improved conditions for Norwegian business in all industries – small and large enterprises. The air passenger charge is gone and the double taxation on dividends is gone as well. The housing tax is on its way down. The implementation of tax reforms already adopted, in particular the investment levy, is the most important one in 2003. Nevertheless, there is room for additional tax relief, this time on the person side with both increases in minimum deductions, an increase in the ceiling on peak taxes and a further reduction in housing taxes. But perhaps the most important thing remains in the shift in fiscal policy: a reform of the tax system with less distance between taxes on capital and income, an even more internationally competitive corporate taxation for all industries, the liquidation of the divisional model, and not least a reduction in the tax on wealth. Such a reform, combined with additional tax reductions during the period, will be the crown of the work in the change of course that the Government wants and that can be carried out by this increase, where a clear majority has wanted such a change. But it is not enough just to reverse the direction of fiscal policy. The way to do it is at least as important. The use of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy is a balancing art, where the key objectives are measures that can increase the growth capacity and value added in business, while avoiding pressures on price rise, interest rates and exchange rates. In other words, a tight budget. This morning, SV's parliamentary leader characterised the description of budgetary rigour as the distribution of random labels, and with the background of his business experience from, among others. Jordan’s toothbrush factory became the industry’s desire to operate the safest and best possible business described as raw materials. There must be unrelenting visionary signals to listen to from the persuasion debate in our National Assembly for a Norwegian business that has the task of producing the value creation on which we are going to build our continued welfare society. It is, as I said, an important balancing art to address the increased use of oil revenues towards reductions in taxes and taxes in order to provide the growth and stimulation needed by business, while keeping public expenditure tight. This balancing art requires actors who dare to take into account the responsibilities and the overall impact of the measures implemented on the economy. The impact of budgetary policy on interest rates is a balanced approach on a tight line, where it is essential to have looked firmly at the target and not too much to be disturbed by the calls for bold economic momentum C and economic acrobatics without security networks. The objective must be a new course of tax policy as a permanent improvement of the framework conditions for Norwegian business, together with a budgetary policy that can dampen the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. The perspective of interest alone is that Norwegian companies, individuals and municipalities at the end of August had a domestic loan debt of $1,600 billion in total, and that an interest decrease of just 0.5 pst. in theory amounts to 8 billion kroner in cost reductions. Figures show that it is vital for everyone to continue the change of course in fiscal policy with a holistic approach and overall accountability for a tight budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e958	Last, but not least, is something called. We're going to finish school. Formally, I will take up the suggestions that are distributed in the matter, and also mention the first very briefly. I have read from the concerns received from both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that they should share our view that we need a message about the resource situation in primary and secondary schools. In our opinion, we should have it by the end of February. It should be based on what has happened this summer, and what is happening beyond the harvest in the municipal sector, with the cuts announced for this year's budget in the municipal sector, and the cuts announced for next year's budget in the municipal sector, so that we get a reading of what is going on. Where's the school bet gone? It's hard to see the realities behind the rhetoric, because we have a Minister of Education who talks fast and much. We think more and more people see it as us, that we have to do something about the system in order to get a better school. I refer you to document No. The 8 that was promoted by us last Thursday, about a number of system changes that we recommend for Norwegian school: free establishment, the state pays the school money, the schools have to become autonomous units with their own boards, funds for the state acquisitions of school buildings, to mention some examples of system changes that we want. Where's the school bet gone? In this year's budget, last year's loan framework of DKK 2 billion for refurbishment and upgrading of school buildings has been reduced to DKK 1 billion. And if we believe the messages that actually stood to read as late as yesterday, there's money for the current year unused. We are not surprised at that, because this scheme is designed so that the municipalities that are either on the verge of an economic crisis, or are under the supervision of the county council, do not see themselves able to use the scheme. We have pointed out from day one a whole year back that something has to be done with the device if you actually believe that these 15 billion will be used – 15 billion kroner against the measurement that KS itself has done, at approximately. $40 billion. I would also say that the pace is not sinfully impressive when it was set last year at NOK 15 billion over an eight-year period. It seems to be spent $1 billion this year. You bet $1 billion next year. It's going to take a while to get those school builders cleaned up. It is quite overwhelmingly demonstrated that the maturity is extensive. Had there been adult people in regular work in these buildings, a good part of them would have been closed, unfortunately. Where's the school bet gone? The reality is, as I said, hard to see. I will now quote from the statement in connection with the supplementary proposition last year, where it is from the Government team, among others. was made as follows: ‘We shall facilitate better quality in school. First of all, we want to strengthen primary school by increasing the number of hours of Norwegian education by 1 hour per year. Weeks 2 to 4. class step.’;» These 100 million. kr, which should have been earmarked for this, has not arrived. Now I did not get a response from the Council of State to my reply instead. But I know the answer. I have previously been informed by the department. You are not sure that this money will come out at all. What was supposed to be strengthening in the first place has no effect. These measures have also not been continued. On the other hand, they are replaced by some kind of incentive scheme for demonstration schools and bonus schools, and it also seems quite reasonable. It will cost approx. Fifteen million. kr to travel around and distribute these premiums. Where's the school bet gone? Looks like the government's school effort is like the mountain that gave birth to a mouse. I think more and more people will agree with us that it needs to change the system. We have to open up to competition. We have to make sure that the funding model and the funding system change, so that students can have government money in their pockets until the school they choose to be a student of. We have to blow up the public school monopoly, which now only increasingly gives us a school with poor learning outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-09-2.ana.ud1768e980	Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to. We have now finished the scheduled speakers at the evening meeting. The evening meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled for tomorrow. 10th@item: inlistbox The first speaker will be Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik.
