ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e63	The representatives Magne Aarøen and Kari Lise Holmberg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative Siri Hall Arnøy from 12 February onwards and until further notice by the Christian People's Party Group on sick leave for the representative Anita Apelthun Säle from 12 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The vara representatives, for Akershu County Christian Holm, and for Hordaland County Pål Kårbø, are called to meet during the leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e102	Christian Holm and Pål Kårbø are present and will take the seat. The representative Per Sandberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e107	On behalf of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to make proposals to exempt the imams from the special residence and work permit scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e112	John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e115	Together with the representatives Harald T. Nesvik and Per Sandberg, I propose to ask the Government to provide standard rates for care pay in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e120	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e134	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1533]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e150	The credit message provides a wide range of reviews of a wide and comprehensive subject area. Nevertheless, almost always, there is one or a few selected sub-areas that are getting attention, and thus the debate is also about. This credit message is not an exception. This time there is the question of whether we should give savings banks the possibility of transforming into a limited liability company that is in focus. So I want to focus my article on this topic in the following article. With its traditional local and regional links, savings banks have played an important and important role in both the personal and corporate markets for well over 200 years. This local and regional proximity has brought with it natural adaptations as times and circumstances have changed. History also shows that savings banks have had their times of crisis, but the savings bank idea has survived. Perhaps because of this mixture of tradition and proximity, there is often involvement — and a little bit of temperature at times — when changes related to savings banks need to be considered. From my point of view, what we are now doing is a consequence of the developments we've seen over the last two decades. We have received a two-part outline in the Norwegian savings bank structure, with a group where the units have been large through mergers, and another group that has largely chosen to continue as smaller, independent units. Through this division, we also have a certain differentiation in niche options and customer base. Savings banks represent an important part of the financial market and the financial industry. From time to time, it is important to correct the industry framework, so that it is as timely as possible to adapt the current challenges. The direct background for this matter is the letter from NOR to the Ministry of Finance on 31 August 2000, which calls for an amendment of the law so that it is possible to convert the Spare Bank NOR into a limited liability company. There are probably few, or none, who don't think it's time for Mutual NOR to get an answer to this. The assessment of the issue emphasises that axles as a equity instrument appear to have some advantage over the basic fund certificate. With regard to access to own funds, this difference between certificates of basic funds and axes will be marked to a very different extent for the large savings banks than for the small ones. As I understand it, one has to be up to a significant size before this is a current issue. On this background, there would be no basis for fear of a race of transformations. On the other hand, it must be right to open up for a general transformation capability, when it is first taken a principle position to allow transformation for a savings bank. I have noticed that the Ministry of Credit in 2000 stated that, in conjunction with the following legal work, it was intended to establish a reasonable level of buying-in protection. The plural comments on the subject support this view. I have also noticed that the department expresses: ‘Actually with legal work, measures will be considered to improve the framework conditions for smaller savings banks.’ It is very good that the Ministry aims at a parallel nature of work in relation to transformation and to improve the framework conditions for smaller savings banks. In this way it is ensured that the entire savings bank structure is given a lift and modernisation. I assume that work on improving the framework conditions will focus both on strengthening the basic funds’ position and on other strengthening measures. In the case of proposals for various strengthening measures, both the Reserve Bank Association and the Terra Group have made contributions. The hearings in the case, carried out on 18 January of this year, revealed that three hearing bodies went in to allow savings banks to be converted into limited liability companies, while one hearing body went against them. With the changes that have been made here, there would certainly be a lift for the benefit of the whole of Sparebank-Noreg. Traditionally, savings banks have been committed to banking where local and regional associations have been strong. Through the arrangement we are now discussing, this tradition can be strengthened, further developed and passed on. All in all, I am confident that the Government's proposal, for which the setting in this case shows that there are multiples, will lead to a modernisation and a adaptation that will strengthen the overall savings banking business in Norway. When it comes to the other areas mentioned in the Credit Statement, I don't go into them any more. I will then only refer to the notes that are related to the different themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e196	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e199	Let me congratulate the Right once again on winning the fight in the Government. It turns out that the other government parties are totally absent from the question of structural policy and the question of how to draw this new map as desired by the Right. The reality is that the right has the bay and both ends, too late as in the setting of the long-term programme in ours, the other two government parties thought that there should not be a transformation access for the savings banks. At the time, the Labour Party was in the government, and these parties were in opposition, but what has changed since then, I have a very hard time seeing. The reality is that we are now faced with a major structural change within the Norwegian banking and financial sector that the Christian People's Party once again blesses, without actually taking it up in the light of the principle, which the Christian People's Party has actually agreed with SV every year: it makes sense to have a separate banking system, called the savings banking system, which is different from the commercial banks, and which has a different local connection, a different form of ownership – that is, a different structure. Unfortunately, I record that the Right has won here too. It's sad. Because what we now want to see in Norway is about the same as we have seen in other countries that have given this transformation access, namely that you do not want savings banks over time. Over time, these will now become commercial banks. And the reason for that is obvious. When Mutual NOR, as the second-largest savings bank and as the second-largest financial group in Norway, now transforms into a limited liability company, who will then be subject to the basic fund certificates? The point is that we can say that we are going to make a big message about basic fund certificates and strengthen them in the public – it is certainly excellent – but it is clear that now the pressure on this will be much greater. When the largest, totally dominant savings bank disappears, the circulation of basic funds certificates will be much smaller. It's obvious. This means that all the savings banks that will not become a limited liability company will be forced over time to become a limited liability company. My question to the rapporteur is this: does he not see this? Does he not see the obvious in the precedent, in the pressure, in the logic of the market, and how it will press forward that Haltdalen Sparebank and everything else we have left, will now be transformed into a limited liability company over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e208	I have great respect for and trust in many of the assessments that the representative Djupedal makes on different questions, but I have to admit that here we have one of the things where we really draw different conclusions. I would like to remind you that with the two-part division that one has already gained through the development of Sparebank-Noreg in the last two decades, we have got a group of large units, and another group of smaller, independent savings banks that a little unpresist can say will lead the old savings bank structure and – the idea goes on – it is also in the other group. The whole purpose of this case, as with the possibility of conversion, not the obligation to transform, is to allow equity to be acquired in a good and defenceable manner also to the largest of the savings banks, and at the same time and in parallel developed not only the basic funds' position, but also other measures that will strengthen the situation of the small savings banks, in order to ensure that those who have chosen this niche, too, will be able to proceed in a good way. What we're facing right now is nothing but the adjustment that one has had from time to time when it's about the savings bank structure in Norway. It is true that in the setting of the long-term program last year, we joined with our partners in a point where we say that we are not in favour of conversion for savings banks. But at the same time, it was – as you'll see if you read the rest of what's in the comment on the long-term programme – just one of the tools to fulfill the intentions that we put in. And there we are in good company, because the Saving Bank Association has made the same change during this period – a little earlier than we did.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e215	What is done by the majority must be said to be quite different from some of the changes that have been made in the savings banking system in the past. In my opinion, this will mean the end of the savings banks we know. Although it is not a transformation obligation, but a transition, it goes without saying that the competitive relationship between those who choose to convert and those who do not will change so that over time all savings banks will be forced to transform into a limited liability company, in order to obtain the benefits of being able to acquire equity in that way. If some of the large savings banks really need to raise capital through the form of limited liability companies, it is free for any bank to convert into a commercial bank – at least one has the opportunity to convert into a commercial bank – and thus benefit from it. What you want here is to get the best from both sides. Thus, the savings banks that do not choose that form have been given the additional competitive disadvantages that this will entail. In the long-term communication last year, the following was written: ‘The central parties consider it important to strengthen national ownership of the financial industry and to look at the savings banking system with district availability, local governance, local ownership and user influence as essential for the development of a decentralised business and that the whole country may be inhabited.’ So my first question to Sørfonn's representative is, what has changed from last year, compared to the argument that was used there? The second question concerns protection against buying-in. We now know that ESA already has the 10 p.m. rule to assess, and that the buying-in barriers that we already have in existing laws are under pressure. What kind of buying-in protection does the representative Sørfonn consider not to be contrary to the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e229	There is nothing that has changed in relation to what Mr Enoxen referred to here. We still believe that it is important to strengthen national ownership of the financial industry, and we see that the savings banking system should have district availability, local governance, local ownership and user involvement. What has changed is that during this period we have come to the conclusion that this can be done better by giving opportunities for transformation, which will be relevant to the largest savings banks. So the very basis hasn't changed at all. When it comes to the perspective that Enoch tried to describe here, this would lead to all savings banks being converted into a limited company and then to disappear from the market, if I understood him correctly, I believe that the fear is greatly exaggerated. Because even with the instrument we have today, the foundation fund certificate, it's as far as I think only a couple and twenty of the savings banks have benefited from it. I wonder if we get a race in the direction that Enoch here suggests. There's nothing to it. Rather, on the contrary, I am overconfident that precisely with the grips we are doing now, we will have a strengthening of the small savings banks, so that they can operate in the local environment – not least in the personal market, but also in the business market and in the near market. I also received a question about buying-in protection and the challenges that arise as a result of the termination of the 10 pst rule. These are the questions that the Department will of course address as they continue to deal with these issues. But I would like to remind you that already during the hearings on 18 January, this question was asked, and it was confirmed by the hearing authorities that there are other possibilities for buying-in protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e238	I don't think the Christian People's Party is doing this of evil will. The Christian People's Party believes that this is for the benefit of savings banks. And of course – and that’s not entirely unproblematic: when the totally dominant savings bank wants a transformation, there is a balance between the business’s interests and the social interests that have to be done. Looking at the history of savings banks over the years, it is clear that, despite the evidence from the basic funds, the savings banks have been through significant restructuring over the 1990s and today appears to be one of the most vital parts of the Norwegian financial industry, thanks to their ability to – and honour the savings banks for it. Nevertheless, they have respected the tradition of savings banks. They have maintained the local ownership, they have maintained a structure, to a greater extent than the commercial banks. So it's in the interests of society, it's in the interests of business. And here I believe that the Christian People's Party has made a mistake, because here they have chosen the one-sided belief that the market is the wisest in all that. But what is our task as legislators is simply to facilitate that we can have a differentiated financial world in Norway, as we have had it. The market pressure against this is going to be formidable. The savings bank association has in fact been exempted from this issue for several years now, because Mutual NOR has said that they want to become a limited liability company. After all, all the hearing opinions of the Sparebank Association are marked by the fact that there has been an internal disagreement. But if you go back and see what the Savings Bank Association meant when the Banking Law Commission was operating, the Savings Bank Association was unique: we do not want a transformation. That's what was the principle view of the Saving Bank Association. What unfortunately is the reality, and which the Christian People's Party must take inward, is that no decision is for eternity – nor in the Christian People's Party are any decisions for eternity. What we have now given an opening for can over time lead to a significant structural change in the Norwegian banking system. That's right. That should have been known by the Christian People's Party, so this time they should have said that we disagree with this question, we don't want to give this access to transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e247	I'm saying that it's hard to predict, especially about the future, and that's not always how we understand the consequences of all the decisions we make. But yet we have certain predictions and theories about how a development will happen. For me, it is quite clear that the alternative to what we are proposing today can easily be that we have a transformation of some large savings banks into, for example, savings banks. commercial banks. Would it better take care of the savings bank idea, with district proximity, regional proximity, etc.? A different scenario, if you're going to start drawing them. So I just want to repeat: we are convinced that with the two-part division that we have already received in Sparebank-Noreg – we take the consequence of a structural change that has taken place for a long time – we facilitate that both categories in the savings bank landscape will have the potential for growth and development and not least to carry on the basic idea of the savings bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e254	The experience of the countries that have adopted such a transformation approach as the one we are now adopting is that the savings banking system disappears over time. You get a strong transformation, you get a purchase, you get a ownership concentration – as I understand that the representative Sørfonn doesn't want, and that he still sees as unfortunate. If we still agree that it is important to strengthen national ownership, and we regard the savings banking system as crucial for the development of a decentralised business, we want to maintain district availability, local governance, local ownership, etc., then I must say that all the time we know that almost all the national regulatory restrictions that aim to preserve national ownership are under constant pressure from the EEA Agreement, it surprises me that we have not chosen to go the other way, namely first to ensure that guidelines or rules on buying-in protection that you can be sure of will not be contrary to the EEA Agreement. Because I actually perceived the representative Sørfonn that it was crucial to focus on just buying-in protection when you took a position on this matter, that you wanted to keep it. My follow-up question will then be: wouldn't it be better to first ensure that a regulation was in place to limit buying-in, to ensure that it was EEA legal and to have it approved, and then to look at the possibilities of conversion into a limited liability company? In this way, at least perhaps there was a certain opportunity to secure national ownership of the savings banking system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e263	The reality is, unfortunately, so that we can't always get all the factors in place at the same time. We begin, in my opinion, at the right end, by looking at the very transformation bag, to which there are two strong conditions attached. One is buying-in protection, the other is strengthening the situation of small savings banks, not least by strengthening the basic fund certificate’s position. I see that it complicates the discussion about the purchase protection system that we are completely independent of this matter about at the same time getting up the question of the possible liquidation or modification of the 10 pst. rule. But there is nothing to prevent one from taking other constructive measures in this area. Not least for the time since Mutual NOR sent its application, we now have to take a position in some direction in this matter. We're supposed to give an answer to this. Then it's natural that we take the principle discussion, as we do now. And I'm sure we'll also get out of that part of the premise that's attached to the Purchasing Protection System.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e271	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e274	The case manager has done the right thing for the credit notification in a broad sense. So I just want to go into one of the themes that are up there, the transformation of savings banks. I want to do something for the Labour Party's vision. Today we have 129 savings banks in Norway. 107 of these have so far not been in need of equity beyond the annual surplus they have. So there are 22 savings banks that issued the foundation certificates and are listed on Oslo Stock Exchange. That's the situation in our savings banking system. In view of the Labour Party's view, we now support a general option for savings banks to convert to a limited liability company. In the design of the specific rules for such a transformation, the working party will require a strong buying-in protection to pass on the positive aspects of the savings banking system, such as availability and loan conditions to most people. For the Workers' Party, there has been much to say that the Sparebank Association has entered into an agreement in order for Mutual NOR to be converted into a limited liability company, and that this law should be general. While the Basic Fund certificate is well-owned as equity sources for small and medium-sized savings banks, although axes are considered to be a better, cheaper and more available equity source for small banks, Mutual NOR Sparebank has grown so large that it is no longer owned as a equity source. The fundamental problem of Mutual NOR Sparebankno is the potential for growth in an increasingly competitive market. So we could say that the mutual NOR Sparebank is too big for the savings bank model. Increased lending growth must, of course, be covered by increased equity. It is also such that the basic fund evidence is little known among foreign investors. The basic funds certificates are not included in the total index for Oslo Stock Exchanges. It is claimed that this excludes the demand for basic funds certificates from large investors that place their money after the index. That is why it is important now that Mutual NOR Sparebank is given the opportunity, and then we say yes to a general home. From the Workers' Party's side, we do not believe that small and well-run savings banks will seek conversion into limited liability companies. My question is: should a local savings bank that operates well in its local area ask for a transformation? I don't see any good reason why they should do it, because many people are doing very well, as we have pointed out here, without a basic fund certificate as a equity instrument. Others find sufficient additional capital through the basic fund certificate scheme. Those who claim that we are now opening up to a massive conversion and a rapprochement of the Norwegian savings bank sector have put faith in the Norwegian savings bank and the savings bank idea. I believe that those who sit in the various savings banks around are well-informed to decide and see what will benefit them in the future. And if they don't want to change, they don't have to. They have shown that they are doing well in the world that is, with the capital they have access to. I would like to stress that from the Labour Party's side, we want to strengthen the basic fund certificate as an equity instrument. Of course, we have to come back to this when the government comes up with the proposition to make it possible to get this general world. And then we're going to have to go into the actual situation right there. And that's in the context we're now saying that we need to strengthen the foundation certificates and the purchase protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e293	The rapporteur has explained in a good way what is essentially the view of the Progress Party in terms of the transition access for savings banks, although I would like to stress that there are several aspects to which we are somewhat pending in relation to the actual bill that comes from the Government at a later date. There have been relevant and interesting arguments from some of the actors who have been on the path in this process, which I think should be taken along the road towards a change in the law. There are a few other things I want to focus on. One is the comments made by the Committee in connection with Landkreditt. A unanimous committee points to the need to allow Landcredit and other credit institutions to act as an important competitive element in the market. I could well plan to challenge the Council of State, based on the majority's remark in the vote, on when it would be natural to assume that the Government will come to the Government with proposals for change so that one can change the group structure of Landcredit and give them the right to act as a group leader. The second relates to the follow-up to the Competition Surface Selection, or to the Hope Selection. I am very surprised that especially the Right, but partly also the Christian People's Party and the Left, now no longer seems to have any opinion on these very important questions. The current representative Per-Kristian Foss and I spent a considerable amount of time dealing with these issues throughout the last growing period and repeatedly called for the follow-up of these very important issues by the Government for the Norwegian financial industry. Now, all of a sudden, the government parties are completely absent in having opinions on these issues, and I think that's disturbing. Since the government parties here in the house have no meaning about it, I could imagine challenging the council also on this: When can one expect that the government will follow up these very important questions, which especially the Right has asked on a number of occasions earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e302	Some of the things that have surprised me over the last few years are that the debate on bank structure and the need to have a nationally anchored banking has so little taken business. This is one of the things that merges into that pattern. Over the last few years, we have had a significant restructuring of Norwegian business, where significant players have been purchased by foreign banks. In this way, Norway has become more a branch country within the banking and financial world. This is a significant problem for those affected by the decisions, and it is clear that the longer the decisions are taken, the greater the risk that it will not be particularly good for our country or for Norwegian business. This issue of access to transformation for savings banks is initially not about this, but can over time very well be about this as well. The construction done here to try to prevent the purchase of a savings bank is a construction that is not necessarily life-created. It has been seen in other countries where this access has been granted, that over time the pressure has been exerted to eliminate the possibility of preventing buying-in, and in this way buying-in has also taken place. This means that the savings banks that we know them are probably facing one of the most important decisions in Stortinget's entire history: that now the savings banks can, if they want it, or if the pressure gets too strong, become a stock company. I hope and believe that the savings banks do not want to use this option as far as possible, except for Mutual NOR, who has now asked for it in the first place. But I'm afraid the pressure will be formidable. It is quite right that many of these savings banks are locally anchored and in that way have not yet been used to raise capital from outside. At the same time, there is also a market logic here that makes you feel that you can't feel safe about this over time. It was also one of the reasons given to the Sparebank Association that they had not previously wanted this transformation. You were satisfied with the system that is, and you thought it was okay. This means that one has excluded a piece – which is in a way the logic of the market – from its own thinking: we are savings banks, we have a different reason, a different structure, a different local anchoring than the big business banks have. I think it's important to do this. I think it's important for Norwegian business, I think it's important for District Norway, I think it's important for ordinary consumers to have more competition, which the savings banks have brought about. The savings banks have also been better banks than the commercial banks of ordinary consumers, depending on the conditions they receive, both on interest rates and what else they need for banking services. In all large surveys, savings banks are even better than competing banks. I fear that this can also be removed over time, namely that the customer, the consumer as such, will lose a competitive edge. When Mutual NOR as the second largest savings bank unit wants a transformation, it is clear that it is not unproblematic for the Storting to say no to this, because Mutual NOR – or first the Saving Bank NOR and then Mutual NOR – has been through continuous restructuring for many, many years. And it's clear that the arguments they put forward to get this access, of course, are heavy arguments. They would not have made this request if they had not felt the need for it. Nevertheless, the Stortinget is facing the classic dilemma: are we going to take into account one actor, or are we going to take into account the society that these institutions are set to serve? And my answer to this is very clear: the savings banks have a different function than the holding companies banks, they are set to serve another market, and that means I don't want to give this access. I think that's wise. It has also been considered wise by the Sparebank Association for all years, until Mutual NOR asked for this access. What is also interesting to note, and which is cited as an argument against savings banks, is that the basic fund certificates are invisible, that the big investors don't know what this is. Yeah, that's a good option. But this criticism cannot be raised against Stortinget, because it is not the task of Stortingen to make the basic funds certificates more attractive. It is the task of the market, savings banks, to make these securities more negotiable, more interesting, for industrial investors or for institutional investors. Once this criticism has been raised against Stortinget, it is in a way a completely wrong address. Then the savings banks themselves, Oslo Børs themselves, have not done a good enough job in making this security more attractive and more familiar. But at the same time it is also that this security, the basic fund certificate, has had a higher return on Oslo Exchange over the past few years than the shares have had. That means that those investors who have invested money in these papers have got a better return, which in itself should be a good argument as to why you don't need this transformation access. This means that SV agrees that we should try to facilitate a changed law so that the position of the Foundation certificates is strengthened and they become more visible. But in truth, it must also be said that this is primarily not the task of the Storting. It is the savings banks themselves and their organisations that need to make them more attractive. And that's my big challenge to savings banks now, especially after giving this transformation access. If you don't now know your visitation time, the worst scenario, as I have now suggested, can happen well. Let me also say that I think it is amazing to see that both the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have previously opposed this transition, now open up to it with a reason that I do not think is good enough. It is therefore not enough in the national Parliament to justify a change of approach based on the wishes of one actor. This room is set to take care of society, and that means that I think the arguments on why this is necessary are not materially good enough. Mutual NOR is one of many players in the Norwegian banking market. It is therefore not possible to place a decisive emphasis on the wishes of this actor, even though of course it should be emphasised. From a totality point of view, SV has chosen, not surprisingly, to go against this transformation approach, while at the same time wanting to make the basic funds evidence more visible. This is a matter that the department has said they will come back to, a matter that SV also attends. Let me just conclude by saying that we have a remark about the IMF. We are pleased that there is now a review of the IMF in the credit statement. We think it's wise. We think it is wise for the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, to draw greater attention to the role of the IMF in national parliaments. We also believe that it is good for the Norwegian economy to discuss carefully what you want with these institutions. Details about this should be included in the Audun Lightbox back in a later article. What is interesting is that the debate about the International Monetary Fund and also the debate about the World Bank over the last few years has had a completely new turn, and the criticism of these institutions has come from very unexpected teams, including the bank itself. This means that it will now be interesting to see to what extent one is able to raise a debate and get changes in the governance structure and purpose of these institutions, more in line with what modern society actually needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e331	Like the previous speakers, I would like to focus on the right to purchase, or rather, the right to change. I will try to be brief, because I agree with the reasoning put forward by the previous speaker. I record that there is actually a majority in this room that places the crucial emphasis on putting our trust in being able to get a stronger buying-in protection through the future legislative work. This kind of reasoning we've heard before. It shall be possible to do so within the framework of the EEA Agreement, we have heard in countless contexts, and we have also repeatedly seen that those who have put their trust in it to be possible have made mistakes. The EEA Agreement has paved the way for the removal of national legislation, removing national rules that have been of crucial importance, for example: in relation to district policy – the employer’s fee and what has happened in that area is well known. It surprises me that the majority has not chosen to put in place a buying-in protection before making a decision on transformation, when you put such a strong emphasis on that very side. I think, like the representative of Frøiland, that the smallest savings banks, the smallest, will continue as savings banks, and in the foreseeable future they will continue to generate profits from the operation and will thus not need transformation. However, the risk lies primarily in relation to the large savings banks that currently use the basic funds certificates. Let me do an example. In North Norway we have two dominant banks that are crucial for financing both housing and business in North Norway, the Savingbank Nord-Norway and the Nordlandsbanken. One is a savings bank, the other is a commercial bank. Both of these banks will be current buyers. If the ownership restriction rule of 10 pst. disappearing in the case of commercial banks and the Savingbank Nord-Norway being transformed into a limited liability company, they will be highly interesting buying-in items. You should not have to look very much to find examples of customers in North Norway who have been denied their loan requests, especially from foreign-owned banks, because you have a housing address that indicates that the banks are not interested in financing mortgages. It's actually so bad that there are banks that say no to finance homes on the outskirts of the municipality of Tromsø. Housing is financed in the centre of Tromsø, but not on the outskirts of the municipality of Tromsø – and much less in the most pig-grown villages in Finnmark. In this area, the Reserve Bank of North Norway and, in part, the Nordlandsbank have also played a crucial role in financing business and housing. And I feel quite convinced that if these banks do not have the local anchoring, the decentralised branch structure and the ownership structure that they have today, the financing of business and housing in this part of the country will become much more difficult in the future. So the parties that are now opening up this transition approach on the basis of the wish of one bank – which is legitimate enough, but which cannot guide national legislation – bear a heavy responsibility for the development of the financial industry in the future. And I just want to end by saying my heart's agreement with Left's former fiscal spokesman, as last year, April 9, said the following to Today's Business: «In 15 years we have a banking system where blood vessels to the districts have disappeared. Small businesses and district innovators are not concerned about whether the loan is granted at a lower interest rate of 0,2 or 0,3 per cent. They're busy getting a loan at all. Then they need local bankers.’ That is well said, and I think it will also stand in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e347	The case spokesperson did very well for also very many of the Left's views on this matter, so I intend to concentrate on the issues relating to the savings banks' possibilities for conversion into a limited liability company. Savings banks are important for providing a good financial supply both to individuals and to businesses throughout Norway. In particular, savings banks are important for small businesses and businesses in the district of Norway. The left is busy securing this network of savings banks, and those who want it can keep their savings bank organization. At the same time, we also see the need for a large financial group that Mutual NOR has in order that the cost of capital should not be higher than that faced by many competitors. After the Left's opinion, the Government's proposal in the credit message is a good balance between these considerations. Mutual NOR and other actors who wish to transform will be given the opportunity to do so, while looking at measures that improve the framework conditions for smaller savings banks. The majority of the Committee is also fully aware that an opening for transformation is to be combined with mechanisms to counteract unwanted buying-in and to strengthen the position of foundations. Among other things, the Reserve Bank Association has made a number of proposals to strengthen the Foundation's certificates, and the majority of the Committee decides that this should be followed up. Thus, we will be able to give good conditions and secure capital access to the largest banks, while we take care of them and further develop the many smaller savings banks. The left is concerned that the many smaller savings banks will ensure good conditions. This is also why we have been sceptical about opening up to transformation. However, we see that the measures that come to strengthen the position of savings banks are sufficient to allow us to also go in to open up to transformation. Among other things, the Center uses a part of its comments in the setting to place Terje Johansen and Left's views on the significance of a strong savings banking system. We don't mind. These matters are equally important to us today. The disagreement between the Committee's plurality and its minority is not about the importance of a strong savings bank, but about how we can best secure and develop it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e364	Even with Djupedal's and Enoxsen's attempts at shadow boxing in this case, it is primarily characterised by broad consensus. I'm glad. The entire Committee stresses the importance of strengthening the certificates of basic funds, with the aim of strengthening and providing new opportunities for existing savings banks. And all batches, with the exception of SV, open up some form of conversion. The difference is that the Centre Party is committed to a special arrangement for Mutual NOR, while a broad majority opens up a general access. And if you're afraid of the dynamics of the market, it's quite obvious that if you first open one special arrangement for one company, it won't take a long time for others to join the track and ask for similar special arrangements, and then you're just one pick after the majority, which opens up a general access. I agree with Øystein Djupedal that a Norwegian-based banking service is important to business, but I disagree with Øystein Djupedal when he says that this matter is not about it. I believe that this matter is also about strengthening a Norwegian-based banking system. One of the reasons we're opening up to the general reorganization facility is that it offers new opportunities for the banks, while at the same time we're going to step in to strengthen the basic funds certificates, to strengthen the existing savings banks. In the end, the representative, Siv Jensen, is calling for the Right's view on the Competition Board's proposal. I must admit that we are not as concerned about the lack of follow-up with former representative Per-Christian Foss in the Finance Minister's chair as we were before. That is also why we do not need to express the concern expressed by the Progress Party in its comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e373	The credit notification gives an overview of developments in the financial market in the previous year, of the activities of government institutions and of key tasks in this area. The notification also includes this time a general mention of the activities of the International Monetary Fund. This is the central institution international in terms of ensuring economic stability, in particular in the new developing economies. I record that this time the IMF has not inspired debate in the main hall, but that attention has concentrated on more domestic issues. In this communication, we address more relevant issues, at least nationally, and the Ministry also outlines the proposal for a legislative amendment that will enable savings banks to transform into limited liability companies. I record that this has been widely accepted in Stortinget. However, a party, the Central Party, has wanted a form of this as a special law for a current bank – a wish that is at least contrary to the wishes of the Saving Bank Association itself, where there have been shared views on transformation, but where one has gathered on a majority position that is based on the desire for a general transition. The aim of such a transformation is to strengthen access to equity to the bank. The legislative proposal is currently under discussion in the Ministry and is planned to be promoted during the spring session. In this proposition, we will follow up the wishes of the Enlarged Committee for effective buying-in protection and look at proposals that strengthen the certificates of the basic funds as an equity instrument. I can also assure you that we are in constant contact with the Sparebank Association in working on the proposition. In the coming days, a meeting between the Ministry and the Reserve Bank Association has been scheduled, which I will also attend. So a running dialogue is going on here. I just have to add that when one is faced with the fact that an application from the largest savings bank to strengthen access to equity had been about. One year in the department when this government took over, there is a problem in itself. A bank that underlines that they have problems with equity access, although it is in the long term, is not a strong bank in the long term. If the application had been dropped, or rejected, a significant responsibility had been assumed for a possible deterioration in the savings banking system. It would not be good for national ownership, for consumers or for competition in the market. I want to emphasise that Mutual NOR today is also one of the country's two largest commercial banks, in the sense that they provide significant loans to Norwegian companies. Next to the Norwegian Bank, the bank is also the largest institution in this market. If Mutual NOR had been weakened by handling this case, we would have faced the situation that Norwegian companies had limited access to Norwegian institutions to apply for a loan. It is not, I think, good business policy, nor good policy in terms of strengthening national ownership. Questions were asked about when we want to change the law to allow credit institutions, if any, to be at the head of a group. I have answered this question in a letter to the committee, following questions from the committee member, Sørfonn. There I answer the following: ‘The Ministry, in its letter of 5 February 2002, asked the Banking Law Commission to assess this issue and to address the issue in the next investigation. The Ministry will then consider the issue with a view to clarifying the need for legislative change and, as appropriate, promoting a legislative proposal.’ In the meantime, Landkreditt has received a derogation. In dealing with this case – which was decided contrary to what the previous Council of State had wanted and decided – we have stressed that Landkreditt has a special opportunity to compete in a part of the market where competition may not be strong enough in advance. So they have a derogation today and can work actively in the market. Questions have also been asked about the follow-up to the Hope Selection settings. The Hope committee had many suggestions, and some of them have already followed up. Part of the proposal of the Hope Committee was the proposal to ask other commissions or the ministry to investigate the issue. Some of these questions have been sent to the Banking Law Commission, as the Hope Committee itself asked for further investigation. This applies, inter alia, to: the whole question of the review of our insurance legislation. That is what I expect to be in the next position from the Banking Law Commission, and we will, of course, introduce it to the Storting in the form of a proposition. As regards the issue of securitisation and specifically hedged debt securities, this is mentioned in NOU No. 2001:23, and this NOU is currently being treated in the department. We aim to propose rules on securitisation and to specifically secure bonds for the Storting during the spring of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e399	When you hear the Minister of Finance talk about nationally anchored ownership, you have to listen, because there is nothing this government – and also in the previous period when you are not in government – has been less concerned about than this. On the contrary, this government has been concerned about one thing, and that is that the state should own the least possible. In this way, a significant business for Norway has been sold abroad. Not least in the sector we are talking about here, two major banks have been sold during the last period – one to the Danske Bank, and the Kreditkasse, now called Nordea. What we are now facing may be something of the same, and that is my challenge to the Minister of Finance. Here you try to create a structure that will prevent this from happening – by creating a foundation, and this model of foundation will make it impossible to do so. Whether this is in line with the general legislation that exists in Europe, which we are linked to by the EEA Agreement, I am not going to decide. But what we know for sure – and that’s what we’ve seen in this case: At the moment that this actor doesn’t want this company construction, Stortinget only says yes and amen without further reflection. This means that this foundational structure is not necessarily life-created either, not because the Storting will simply take it away, but simply because it might seem that at some point it would have been attractive to be part of this large gaming market in which actors are to buy actors. Now it is already possible to imagine with this model of foundation that Mutual NOR can be formed as an alliance partner in a larger group, and the Minister of Finance has also, as I understand it, suggested in an interview that this could be an opportunity. Then my question to the Minister of Finance is: if you look at the worst case scenario in the future, how are we going to make sure that we have a nationally anchored banking system? And if the savings banks are also potential buyers, what do we have left? Then we only have DnB and Storebrand again.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e408	If you want to secure national institutions in the financial industry, I think at least you have to listen to what they themselves claim and mean. Thus, the largest savings bank has asked for access to expand access to equity through the use of the share instrument. We've put a lot of emphasis on that. In addition, it must be seen that if you had denied this access, and said that they must be locked in instruments that they themselves do not think are sufficient, yes, then the actual effect of strengthening the competing institutions is. A substantial part of the competing institutions are foreign owned, so in consequence, this is not a contribution to strengthening national ownership and the competitiveness of Norwegian institutions, as the representative says he is concerned about. In fact, I believe that the opposite could occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e414	I noticed that the representative Sanner said that he was not so concerned anymore, now that Per-Cristian Foss had become the Council of State. I guess the starting point here must be what the council does, not what name he has. I was not very reassured by the answer given by the Council of State. The only question he was clear on was the proposition in relation to securitisation. So other ratios are going to push in front of you. In a very short period of time, the type of vocabulary that other governments have previously criticised for using, namely to wait, to consider, to investigate, and to consider once more before going to the Stortinge with a final clarification. These are questions which have been raised on the board of the Financial Committee on several occasions and which have been concerned with clearing the way. I have to say that when e.g. On cross-border issues, i.e. parts of insurance legislation, this was addressed in Stortinget in the winter of 1998, and it has in a way been operating in the systems since then. I don't think it's satisfactory. I think the Council of State should be able to give something clearer feedback as to when it would be natural for the Government to come to the Stortinget with proposals for new legislative changes in this area. I do not think that it is sufficient to send these questions to another Commission, for another assessment and for another investigation. And as for this relationship with Landkredit as a group leader, it was that even the Credit Authority thought it would be natural, when the Government granted a temporary waiver, not to make this temporary, but to make the law change permanent. I guess the government could be something more effective than it seems to be in these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e423	I think it's important to clear some of the rhetoric aside here. When the representative uses the term ‘pull ahead’ as a description of having followed the recommendation of the Hope Committee on further investigation, it is at best not accurate. There is no postponement of a question when we follow up the Hope Committee's wish for further investigation. A review of the entire insurance law is a matter which, in fact, I think, requires a quite significant investigation, professionally through the Banking Law Commission. We've followed that up. It is not to push this in front of you, but it is to initiate a process that will allow you to get more modernized legislation gradually. When we have chosen to grant a derogation to Landkredit on a temporary basis, it is for that reason that we believe, like the Credit Authority, that if it is to be done on a permanent basis, there is a need for a change in law. This derogation, i.e. my permission for Landkreditt to start a bank, to put it a little simple, is in line with the Recommendation of the Credit Authority, contrary to what the former State Council concluded. Otherwise, I have notified at least one proposal containing proposals from the Hope Committee during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e430	I have to say that I find it very worrying when the Minister of Finance explains his position on this matter that they had given decisive attention to what the actors themselves think. It is clear that a society cannot be run that way, and that a banking and financial system cannot be run that way. Every civilised country, as far as I know, has special rules and arrangements for banking and finance, simply because they are key institutions in making this modern society go around. This means that there have been special rules in all countries. All countries have special rules in the banking and financial sector, precisely because these institutions are so extremely important. It is clear that a major player like Versatile NOR has a separate and own agenda, of course, as all major players do. It is absolutely legitimate to have separate and own agendas. But at the same time, we are set to manage a different purpose: what serves the consumer, what serves business, the importance of having a differentiated banking system in Norway, and not least the importance of having nationally anchored banking and financial institutions. It is clear that when this Government has as its primary objective the decisive emphasis on what the actors think, and they are just to bet on what the actors think, we are facing a very worrying development. Because in the next round, you want to sell yourself into DNB, and then what happens? If you're going to put a decisive emphasis on what DnB wants, you don't know that in a given situation, but that means you might not be left with big, dominant commercial banks at all. And that's this perspective that worries me. I was concerned during the previous government, which at all did not take these considerations into account, and which opened up a large-scale privatisation of the Norwegian banking system. As a result, all as one of those sold have ended up abroad. Now we're facing a new major structural change within savings banks, and what happens to these, we don't know either. But at least what is crucial is the following: it must be the Storting, especially in those cases where we are actually both legislators and owners, who must try to create a banking system that benefits Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e437	I agree that any country, at least in Europe, has special rules in relation to credit institutions in relation to other businesses. It is worth noting also in the context of the review by the expert group that has submitted assessments of the Norwegian 10 pst. It points out — and it is interesting to note — that all European countries have different types of rules, which provide restrictions on their ownership and which provide protection against buying-in, partly more stringent buying-in protection than is currently the case under Norwegian law. With regard to the Saving Bank NOR and the consequences of saying no, I would like to insist that you listen to a bank that believes that they can serve customers better by changing the law. And so the bank hasn't asked for any kind of laissez-faire arrangement, but for the law to be changed, so that they get a transformational access, which also exists for banks in other countries like the bank, among other things. compete with. I agree that there should be a guideline for us on what serves consumers, what promotes competition. It's okay to be concerned about everything here in society, but maybe you should also look at the reality around you and, among other things, about it. note that during the last five to ten years there has been a dramatic decline in the interest margin, so that banks in Norway are today more similar to other countries in terms of the interest margin. This is not good enough, but it has been a clear positive development for consumers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e446	I noticed that the Council of State was not so busy with the structure of its articles. He was busy by this one bank, and talking a lot about the customers for which this one bank, Mutual NOR, should answer. But as Øystein Djupedal has also been in the past, we are busy with the customers for whom all the other savings banks should answer. It is clear that such a transformation will lead to a change in the market and will have consequences for the other banks as well. This means that these local savings banks need to adapt. It gets consequences quite quickly for costs. There are consequences for the savings banks that are known to be, simply gifts for non-profit purposes, the third sector. And there's going to be a lot of tighter assessments when it comes to this. We know that the farming industry is largely a customer of the local savings bank, and with the fluctuations in the farming industries, they depend entirely on a bank that understands and understands the particular business environment. Then they must begin to streamline operations. The savings banks are also known for having a rather decentralised branch office structure, so they have to look at costs, and what do we have left of the original savings bank idea? Isn't the government busy with the original savings banks' customers at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e451	Well, we're concerned with both the small ones, the medium-sized ones and the large savings banks, and in particular their customers. If Saving Bank NOR had been denied a transformation access, I am absolutely convinced that it had had dramatic consequences for the branch structure and therefore for the customers. It would have a clearly centralising effect, and the bank itself has made it quite clear. I basically share the view expressed by the representative of Frøiland in his speech, that it is that the market is constantly changing – it happens independently of our changes in the law – but it is not stated that those who do not currently use a basic fund certificate, which is therefore the majority of savings banks, should suddenly want to use shares, or that those who use a basic fund certificate and who are satisfied with it should suddenly change to use the form of shares. I think you're going to exaggerate the impact on other banks of this. In the case of gifts for non-profit purposes, there will still be something that the savings bank foundation, which will be one of the owners of the Reserve Bank NOR, may have access to wherever they wish in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e462	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e465	For my part, it has not been easy to conclude on the question of giving savings banks access to a conversion to AS on the same line with mutual life insurance companies and credit associations. But a clear argument to say yes is that there is a need for savings banks to strengthen their own capital, and in some cases – at least for Mutual NOR – there is often a desire for one to have the advice and the ability to maintain a decentralised supply for the benefit of the region, the outskirts and the people who live there. The option for them is, as State Council Foss calls, a centralisation. In practice, axes prove to be a cheaper and more attractive equity instrument than a basic fund certificate. It was very well illustrated by the need for increased equity of Mutual NOR, which cannot be resolved within the current system. In addition, the challenge posed by NOR is linked to the group structure. That is why there are good reasons why a person is now opening up to transformation. But what I would like to stress is the need for measures to prevent unwanted purchases and the fragmentation of the structure and function of the locally anchored, decentralised savings banking system that we now have. There is no doubt, as has now been said here, that there are great advantages for people and businesses with Norwegian property and local banks, with the competence and insight it brings to the challenges of Norwegian business. In particular, it is important to ensure this at a time when we have had major restructurings in commercial banks, and then with increasing foreign ownership. Now, as many people stress, it's up to the savings banks themselves to choose if they want to continue as they are now or transform themselves. And then it must be a relevant question to ask if it is right that we should choose for them, or, to put it another way, whether it is such that we should have legislation to protect them from something they do not want to do. Because, as I said, it will be up to them themselves what to do. But many here point to the danger of increased pressure, and that this ratio to choices is going to be somewhat illusory. And it is important for measures to prevent this, measures that the Government must come back with in the legislative proposal. In this context, it is also worth noting that the support of the Savings Bank Association in terms of eligibility for conversion is tied to conditions and based on clear premises – provisions for the regulation of the ownership of the Foundation to counteract unwanted buying-in, and a strengthening of the position of the basic fund certificate. In its work, the Ministry must be aware of its objectives in order to get good action in line with this. As has also been mentioned here, many concrete proposals have been put forward in consultation with the Savings Bank Association, and so has the Terra Group. I'm not going to go into these proposals any more, as the department says it's working on. However, it is important to stress that when we give our connection to such transformation, these measures must be put in place. We have also understood that Minister of Finance Foss is busy with it and will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e480	I would like to comment on the part of the message that goes into the IMF's business. As Øystein Djupedal mentioned, we are pleased that such a message has come. We find it equally sad that it has received so little attention, and has received so little attention from the Committee in the comments that have been written. Not a single small comment on the IMF's activities has come from the majority of the Committee, except that it is said that we agree with our observation that it is positive that such a communication is being made. Far less so, the majority have some critical objections to the IMF. That the ministry doesn't mention in one word the strong increase in protests against the IMF around the world is one thing, that the majority of the finance committee doesn't seem to have registered this development either, we think it's worse. And that certainly shows how sad the debate on globalisation is in this country. While the IMF has now been the subject of discussion in more and more poor countries, among NGOs around the world and among more and more trade union economists, the Norwegian growth seems to have nothing to say. In our view, the production of the IMF business gives an unbalanced picture. The fact that the institution is regarded to a greater extent than before as controversial in debt-stabilised countries is not mentioned. The fact that many believe that the IMF itself has a major responsibility for triggering the financial crisis in Asia and Argentina is also ignored in silence, and there is no debate here on the social consequences of the IMF's structural adjustment programmes. Neither in the IMF nor in the World Bank’s own figures, nor in UNDP statistics, can there be any evidence that IMF policies have led to better welfare levels or better living conditions for the population of countries that have been through the structural adjustment programme. According to the Communication, the objective of the IMF is to achieve economic stability and there is every reason to ask whether the economies of the IMF headquarters have been able to do so at all. Today's criticism of the IMF is not just about the institution not taking social considerations and promoting a policy that creates more poverty, greater class divisions and weakens democracy through privatisation and liberalisation, but a number of teams are also raising questions about whether the IMF's policies provide a basis for economic destabilization and crisis. The ongoing crisis in Argentina could be an example of this. Former vice president of the World Bank, Joseph Stiglitz, a man who has never inspired membership of SV, published an article last month in which he learns some lessons from the Argentina crisis. Among his conclusions is that linking one currency to a larger currency, such as the dollar, as has been done in Argentina, is very risky, that freedom to manage interest rates is a necessary mechanism to protect itself against the economic shocks that globalisation can cause to individual countries, that one cannot ignore the social and political circumstances of a country, that if one pursues a policy that creates unemployment and underemployment, it will go wrong, that one-sided focus on inflation targets and not on growth and employment is risky, and that growth requires financial institutions that lend to domestic companies. Selling banks abroad can slow growth and be destabilising. According to Stiglitz and a lot of others, the IMF has advised Argentina to do all these things. Similarly, the IMF Council of South-East Asia to wide-ranging liberalisation of financial markets, deregulation, privatisation and cuts in public expenditure in the 1990s. It led to an economy dominated by speculation, rapid movements and short-term money placements, while at the same time this policy deprived national governments of the opportunity to counter crisis developments by depriving them of tools such as national owned banks, the management of interest rates and public investment as an antidote to the crisis. Many of us have pointed out that the IMF structural adjustment programmes have been developed under the principle that ‘one size fits all’ without taking sufficient account of local assumptions, the level of development and the need for a varied business life. Social movements in the Third World claim that the losers of this policy are the population and businesses operating on the domestic market of poor countries, while the winners are large multinational companies. This is how the IMF becomes a tool for the domination of the rich countries over the poor. But this is an impression that can only be amplified by the way the power of the IMF is distributed, which is well described in the message. This is a system of creditor powers, where votes are broken down by financial performance. We find it particularly regrettable that only the Central Party has wanted to join our message that the Government must get ahead of democratising the decision-making processes of the IMF. In particular, we find it strange that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party which competed in the election campaign in the fall to be the most good at providing the most assistance, do not think that this is an important point. This is, of course, a question of developing the developing countries on their own premises, which is in the long run a much more important development economic issue than the means of assistance. But here it's just to record that the exposure in this hall is not so big.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e499	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e514	It should be done soon to review this matter, because the Committee concludes that when the setting of the Selfig Committee – which is asked to look at ownership of Norwegian financial institutions – has been heard, and the ministry says that they will come back with a case in the autumn session this year based on the hearings, there is no reason for us to start this discussion. Although there are many people who have strong views about different things in this proposal, the committee's attitude is that we are waiting to get things back from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e521	I'm also going to be very short. When we have interesting recordings at the hearing, it would be unwise for the proposer and the Progress Party to present proposals on this matter now in order to get it down. The only thing I want to point out is that I think the treatment of this takes a bit too long. There has been a long-standing problem. We have a conflict going on with ESA, and it should have been possible for the government to deal with the matter more quickly than they are now proposing. However, we note that the majority of the Committee considers this to be an acceptable procedure, and will therefore not go into the debate on the matter now, but wait until the proposition comes from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e528	I'm also glad the President has me short. I just want to say that the 10 pst.-rule as it has worked has worked according to purpose, and there has been a broad political uprising about it. In my opinion, which is not a legal assessment, it is non-discriminatory, and that means that it is equal both to the Nordics and to non-residents and as such should be in line with the EEA Agreement. Therefore, there is reason to stress what the Selfig Committee writes in its position, which was recently published, that ‘there is an open question of whether one will win or lose in any legal case concerning the EFTA Court’s rules of ownership’. It also means that my strong call to the Council of State is to remember this. This means — after my assessment of the sample report — that it is not given without a doubt that the 10 pst rule should be replaced. It is possible to find supplements and other variants, but I would nevertheless stress that the 10 pst rule should be strongly considered further.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e535	The issue of changing ownership control rules in Norwegian financial legislation was raised as soon as possible, investigated as quickly as possible and sent out at the hearing with the usual deadlines. The Selfig selection, one of the many, but in this context related to the 10 pst. rule, solved this in six weeks. It has to be almost record time. At the time, they also obtained a technical opinion from one of the leading experts on European financial legislation, and his assessments as a professor of financial law include: on the basis of the opinion now quoted by the representative, Mr Djupedal. We haven't been on the government's side with the hearing, because if you listen to people, you get to listen to people, then. You don't have to say what the conclusion is before you send it out to the hearing, so we've sent it out on a completely open and free basis. And the representative Djupedal's request to have all the alternatives is absolutely present. I think it would be critical if we had dealt with the matter in another way. This concerns many banks which have a very different market position, ownership structure, etc. – several have been mentioned here. I won't mention them. So the banks don't necessarily have a completely unambiguous position. It is important here to listen to everyone and to see to what extent also the associations that organise them, the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation and the Savings Bank Association, may come to conclusions after the consultation. If you are busy listening to the industry and other professional bodies, I think that a normal three-month consultation period is reasonable, taking into account that we also have time to do it this way. Something else is whether, regardless of the criticism from ESA, there are other possibilities for buying-in protection that would actually be stronger, stronger in the sense that they are also not subject to international criticism, if any, or from criticism from foreign companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e546	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e562	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e578	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e596	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e614	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e622	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e678	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 February 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote legislative amendments in order to ensure that the right to family allowances for children residing outside Norway applies only to children of Norwegian citizens and citizens of the EEA territory.’ Mr Andersen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e686	During the debate in Odelstinget, the SV expressed the wish that the Progress Party should make this proposal for a transmission proposal, so that it was possible to assess it in conjunction with all the proposals now being made in relation to coercive and equal treatment. I have understood that the Progress Party does not want this, and then SV will have to vote against this proposal now, because it has not been thoroughly dealt with. But we will come back to the matter when such proposals are dealt with as a whole. SV will support Karin S. Woldseth's proposal in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e705	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 February 2002: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals to enable each parent to receive child benefit on the basis of the percentage that their association with the child warrants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e723	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 February 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that, by means of legislative amendments, the payment of child benefit to the parent who may receive it is stopped until the child has been returned to him as soon as the decision on care has been taken and implemented.’ The President notes that the Socialist Left has said that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e743	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Eirin Faldet, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 7 February 2002: ‘The Government is asking for a comprehensive review of the system for the calculation of social assistance, including an assessment of whether child welfare and cash support are to be regarded as income for the calculation of social assistance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e816	Referral case No 151 is proposed to the municipal committee. Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e821	Referral case No 151 is a proposal by Per Sandberg, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Karin S. Woldseth for action against the use of threats, violence and sexual harassment in vulnerable family environments. As the public debate has gone on these issues, I will, on behalf of our group, propose that this Document No. The 8-proposal is dealt with according to Section 28c, i.e. it is provided for transparency for at least one day and is included on the agenda. I am sorry that I have not taken this into consideration in our group before the Presidency dealt with it. It's my responsibility. But my reason why such a procedure is better than that proposed by the Presidency is the public debate we now have, where especially young women, namely Kadra, Jeanette, Shabana and Nadia, have asked for rapid action in this area. The eight concrete measures proposed in this document No. The 8 proposal has been discussed in the public debate, where representatives of other parties have also addressed concrete measures. Just as I understand what the Swedish Parliament has done, so the Norwegian Magnificent should be able to quickly take some concrete decisions to bring these young girls into line with concrete, named measures, and not just talk about doing something once in the future. That is why we are proposing to deal with this document No. the 8-proposal pursuant to Section 28c rather than as proposed by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e826	Unfortunately, the procedure proposed by the representative Hagen now shows that the proposers are less serious than I expected. I believe that the Storting needs to deal with this matter. On the SV side, we have to promise that we will deal with the proposals as quickly as possible and evaluate each of them, because we see that there is an opportunity to agree on a part. I assume that the proposers will also benefit from the proposal being dealt with in such a way that it is possible to obtain a majority for something. The procedure proposed by the representative, Mr Hagen, is a scheme which means that the matter will be lost, and that no changes can be made to help the people we are now concerned with. So I would recommend that we follow the presidency's stance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e835	Before we move on, the President asks the representatives to deal with the procedure and try not to go into a debate on the matter itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e838	I broadly agree with the opinion of the representative, Andersen, that this is a matter of great importance that needs to be dealt with by the committee. While the Committee should, of course, seek to make an adjustment as soon as possible, it should be given the opportunity to consider the considerations raised by consideration in the Committee. I therefore allow myself to support the Presidency's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e843	I'm joining the last two speakers. This is a serious matter, and it should be properly treated. I think it can get through a committee treatment, and we can treat it as quickly as possible. It's up to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e848	I think it is particularly important that the Storting should be given a debate on this issue. But I see no contrast between having a request for a quick assessment of this Document No. The 8th proposal and the thorough preparation of the possibility for all groups to consider both the proposal from the Progress Party and, where appropriate, other proposals. So I want to support Karin Andersen's and the presidency's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e853	For the sake of order, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to support that Document No. The 8 proposal is sent to the municipal committee. There is nothing to suggest that a person should not be dealt with promptly there, if the committee so chooses. This will give you a chance to get more involved. I support previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12.ana.ud449e858	It is the President's view that whether the issue is dealt with under point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure does not mean that the matter itself is devalued, but that the matter as such is of such a nature that it will be ready for a debate. The size of the debate is determined by the size and extent of the debate. The question itself is not whether the matter is mature in order to demand a debate. The question is whether the matter should be prepared by a committee before the debate starts. The President maintains the presidency's position, but will ensure that the Municipal Committee sets such a time-limit that it will be possible for the Stortinget to discuss a day-to-day topic constructively and in a good way. The President therefore proposes that an alternative vote be taken between the proposal put forward by the Presidency and the proposal put forward by Mr Carl I. Hagen for referral No. 151.
