ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e54	First, I have some initial comments as the rapporteur on the matter. The reason why the government chose to present a new bill on the basis of a NOU is that we have had Reform 94, which has changed the structure of higher education, we have received a ten-year primary school, we have had the reform of competence, and we have also chosen to give extra points for higher education. The legislative proposal is based on NOU 2001:16 ‘Freedom of diversity’. I am very pleased with the broad agreement we have reached in the Committee behind the proposal now before us. Swallow the beginning of ideology, why we want the national colleges to be there, there is a broad consensus. It's just the Progress Party that has jumped off at some of the sections. Even in the case of award criteria, there is a broad consensus that we should focus on objective criteria. I choose to quote some sentences from the setting: ‘Because of changes in cost alignment, it would not be reasonable to have a fixed weighting of the three components to be included in the supplement. The majority believe that one has to assume the cost structure of the public high school when determining the supplement and distributing it to the three variables. Annual adjustment must be made on the basis of student development and general cost developments.» It is important that higher education institutions can build on other values, broader goals for students, a different approach, but that they can also ensure that they have a good education, with qualified teachers. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee also wants us to have qualifications for teachers. It's important that national colleges don't become B-schools, with B-teachers. Higher education institutions should also perhaps become an oasis for teachers who want to work in other ways and develop other working methods. It's important, when we're going to reform the rest of the school system, that we have a school team where we can think differently, where we can find new ways of working, and where it's up to teachers to test out new ways of teaching young people. I'm glad that we have a broad consensus on the working environment at school in relation to students, and that we found a consensus on student democracy, which, in fact, the national colleges have a long tradition, but where we are also so open that it is possible to find other forms of participation than just one. I think that a school where a lot of pedagogy is based on students going to live at school, also sets different demands for student democracy than when you only meet a few hours per. day(s) Then we have discussed for a long time the national and local predictability of the allocation support – we need both national predictability and local predictability. It worked for a long time, to see if it is possible to find the counting date that provides stability and predictability, but also incentives to keep the students as long as possible. Then I have some comments as the Left-Representative of the Committee. As a left-wing representative, you get a little bit warm about the heart when you're going to work with the folk colleges, because we have a party that's grown up closely together with the popular education tradition and the folk high schools. And that's very good left-wing policy up through the times that are created in a dining room at a folk high school. I think it's extra nice that we can discuss the Law of the People's College on the UN Day, because it's clear that the National Colleges have made a great deal of effort in the international field and in the area of integration, which makes it special to discuss it on a United Nations day. Nevertheless, perhaps one of the most important things in terms of higher education institutions as cultural carriers related to the culture of the people and to the national identity. But they also offer the opportunity to develop new subjects, because we see today that in the usual school system we have a lot of subjects that have actually been created in folk colleges by creative high school teachers along with creative students. This is actually a school battle that turns the left slogan ‘Humans in the Centre’ into theirs, with ‘Students in the Centre’. Because it's about growing up, about growing up, about doing without a mother, about sharing a room with a friend, maybe for the first time get a proper girlfriend or for the first time getting a proper care. I think we have a school team here that gives many young people a ballast that they use a lot later in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e74	Let's initially agree that national colleges are a wonderful invention. I can fully join the rapporteur's tribute to the People's College and say that we in the Workers' Party also have a warm beating heart for that school battle, mainly because it is a free quarter. The National College provides a free space for young people who are looking for the right choices in life, but are also a supplement for adults who may need it in different stages along the way. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the Folkeshochschule should continue to be a cultural carrier, while at the same time the ideals of the liberalized higher education movement are passed on. We've seen that many higher education institutions have modernised in the last ten years, and we see that the number of students and the number of students is increasing. The width of elections in the national colleges has also increased considerably. We are pleased that more young people choose such a space in life, and that many adults also think it's great. The law that we are adopting today is, in my opinion, a step on the way to making schools more independent. They are in a more open position after today's decision than they have done before. But such a disconnect doesn't always just have to be of the good. In this context, the Workers' Party, together with SV, wants the Ministry to appoint a representative for the boards of higher education institutions, not only because the school is now only to be run by state resources and to receive government operating grants, but also because the public should have an ambassador in the higher education system. We think it's important that you have more than those in the innermost circle of school, that you can get inside the boards from the outside and have knowledge of the operation of the colleges, and, as I said, be an ambassador for the colleges into the public system. We lose that opportunity with the decision taken today, and I regret that. Our concern has also been to monitor well the use of public funds. But the most important thing for us is that the national colleges deserve someone to know about them, and that these can be ambassadors out there. I think the high school is losing on the new system in the long run. Then I want to take a little visit to the revised national budget for 2002. A decision was made that the students at public schools should have the same annual education support as other students, i.e. no curtailment. The majority have further assumed that it will apply from 1 January 2003 and thus have an effect from the second half of the 2002–2003 school year. However, in its 2003 draft budget, the Government has elegantly ignored a majority decision and submitted that the change should not be made until the autumn of 2003. We want to get back to that at the year's budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e85	It is, as has been said, a great deal of agreement in the Committee on Government's proposal for a new law on higher education, and it is very joyful. The legislative proposal means simplification and coordination, which will give schools a high degree of freedom, and where increased responsibilities are added to schools and to school owners. The proposal provides for a grant model based, as far as possible, on objective criteria. Simplification and predictability are very important for schools, and this model, in my opinion, will ensure both. After the model, the grant will consist of three elements: basic grants, grants per. pupils and dormitory grants. Grants per year students will be a significant part of the total grant. In order to obtain the necessary predictability, it is necessary to take into account early school attendance. The counting date for pupils who trigger grants should be set in such a way that they do not lose income while retaining expenditure. On the right, the majority of the Committee’s comments state that ‘the student number on which the funding is based is to be calculated according to the number of pupils in the school at an early stage after the school starts’. I would like to emphasise the word 'early'. In my opinion, the national colleges represent an important part of the whole of Norwegian school. Former speakers have come not only with theirs, but the party's love for the folk high school. I would like to repeat that love on behalf of both myself and my party, even though we don't tend to be so flourishing in our statements. There's not much in my childhood I'm sorry, but that I didn't get a year in high school, I'm sorry, especially after seeing my own son's development in the high school year that he just finished. The schools offer a valuable offer, and I know that the development of many young people through a high school year cannot be judged high enough. Maturity, professional development, increased social skills and self-development in the broadest sense are concepts that show the value of primary education to individual young people. Folk universities also represent a broad spectrum of tradition, culture, ideology and content that is of great value to maintain. Innumerable are those who look back at a year at high school with joy and enthusiasm. Friendship and social ties are linked for the rest of your life. It is therefore important to give schools predictability in relation to grants, simplification in relation to procedures and clear framework conditions in relation to organisation and qualification requirements. This is fulfilled by the decisions Odelstinget will hopefully take on this matter. I have also noticed that the higher education organisations are very pleased with the draft law as it is now available. This suggests that the Government has taken action in relation to its intentions of simplification and predictability, and that there has been a good dialogue with the higher education organisations in this matter. I assume that this dialogue will continue in the future in order to respond to the needs of schools in the best possible way – including dialogue with respect to needs outside the law itself. Greater responsibility also means greater responsibility for development and quality assurance. Schools shall have self-evaluation and quality development procedures to ensure the participation of both the trainees and students. On the right, we want to emphasise the freedom and responsibility that the new law adds to the schools. We believe that it will ensure a positive development for schools, where valuable traditions are ensured in further quality development, and where schools can develop their advantages and their own qualities. As I said, I am convinced that the school battle is really a valuable offer, and I am very pleased that the law, which will be passed almost unanimously, will ensure that offer in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e102	The previous speaker expressed a slight regret that he had not experienced what it was like to go to a high school. When you hear the Left's description of the realities you might experience there, you realize that you might have missed something. But as we see from what's in the papers, it's not too late. You can look for a recording on your older days. I would think that the representative who was up here before me would be able to come in and maybe experience some of the challenges it is to go to a high school. There is a great deal of consensus in the political environment that primary schools are a positive thing to be able to bring with them. The Progress Party has some own comments on the matter, and we also have some proposals for changes to the law. I get to take the opportunity, while I remember it, to bring up our proposals here, so that they are voted on. There is a lot that we can join in, and I want to take to heart in particular what the Progress Party has a little concern about. It's at the top of page 4 of the setting we have in front of us today: ‘The majority also note that, as a consequence of the student’s right to be able to demonstrate their real competence, the individual public higher education school is required to produce such documentation’. The party of progress believes that the school should not be free of character but should have a separate assessment, simply to follow up what is at this point. We know that once we have acquired real competence, it has to be documented in almost every context in the continuation. We think it must also apply to the higher education institutions. We know that the schools today are based on the 1984 law, and that the proposal here is about simplifying, making this a little more predictable and also clarifying ambiguities that might have been in the previous law. Of course, we in the Advancement Party are very pleased about this. We believe that it must be a free establishment based on national criteria of approval. We also believe that the National Colleges must have a pedagogical freedom. We'll actually go a little further than what we think the other parties are doing, by giving schools greater freedom to add their own teachers' powers, perhaps without the special skills and the level of competence you see in teaching today. Students must be required to have real competence in what they have done out of work. We believe that the grant to the schools should be based on two elements: the basic grant and the grant per. student. We believe that this should be set so high that it covers, and provides a predictable situation for the schools concerned. We also believe that the board should choose the educational and administrative management form itself, and we have included that in the proposal that we have made. We also have proposals for Section 6 Regulations that the Department can provide detailed rules on course arrangements, boarding and checking. I think it was the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e126	Harald Espelund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e129	Universities are a color scheme in our education system. The rest of our education system, from primary to secondary school and up to higher education, is in a more academic educational tradition, where the division of academia into subjects is what forms the basis for much of the activity. The National College is in the tradition of public education. This means that it approaches each student in a slightly different way from what the rest of our education system does. Folk high school is based on the students' experience, the students' knowledge, and from that they start a learning work. It's an important tradition. This is also a tradition that in many ways has had an inward interaction with the rest of our education system. The rest of our education system has probably taken inspiration and ideas from the pedagogics that have been developed around at our national colleges. The law we are adopting today secures the future of our higher education institutions. It lays down a number of important principles. It establishes the principle that education should be free of charge. The students pay for the stay, but the education at the higher education institutions should remain free of charge. It's important to underline. There is room for establishing new schools within the framework adopted, and that is also an important principle. Then we are adopting today a new funding scheme in which the national colleges are supported on the basis of three variables. All of this is important to ensure the future of higher education institutions. In addition, we are investing a total funding. That means that the state finances this in its entirety. One-sixth is not channelled through the county councils, as the tradition of now has been. I think it's an improvement. What may be unfortunate is that we lose some county involvement by some of the funds going through the county council. But I think that overall this will be a strength for the higher education institutions. The majority makes a few adjustments in relation to the Government's arrangements. First of all, we have taken care of the students' participation in a slightly different way, in a slightly better way than what the Government had in its original proposal, in that it still has to be a pupil council. So one more thing – and that’s important – we ask the Government to come back with its own work environment regulations also for high school students. This is what we've been doing, first with the students in the university and higher education sectors. We now have to deal with a change in the Law of Education for Primary and Secondary Schools. It is important that we complete this by ensuring the corresponding provisions in higher education. I expect the government to come back with this if not for too long. So let's make it clear, in the beginning, that the National College is going to be free of exams. It's the option that it's going to be through this system. I think with what we're doing now, the future of high school is put in the hands of our folk colleges. It's up to them what's going to happen to the national colleges in the years to come. If I'm gonna give advice to colleges, I don't know. I still think I'll try a little bit of advice to the National Colleges for the years to come. I think it's very important, if the high school is going to survive as the cobbler it's been and is, that they take care of the tradition they're in, and don't see it as important to adapt to what's happening in the rest of our educational community, where we're concerned with skills, where we're concerned with weight numbers, where we're concerned with benefits in relation to some measurable things. After all, the high school has had a dilemma. They wanted extra money for this one year. There is one way to approach and try to define yourself in a slightly more nutritious context, measured in relation to the other traditional education systems. I don't think that makes sense. I think the most sensible thing in the years to come is that the national colleges cultivate what they are good at, reinvent their peculiarity and the tradition they stand in. If they do, I feel pretty sure that the national colleges will have many years to come. And not only that, I'm pretty sure it'll grow new, exciting high schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e144	Folk high school is a school battle with rich traditions. The emphasis here is on human and social development, and there is a broad concept of learning. In the Christian People's Party, we see folk high school as a valuable offer that fills a need in our educational community. Here, students and adults are given a year of self-development in a broad sense and on their own premises. But there has been no safe economic situation for the higher education institutions. The Christian People's Party has fought for such security, both in terms of operations, study finance and valuation. We'll keep doing that. I just want to be allowed to replicate in relation to the last speaker that the Christian People's Party will also fight for the study score for this, because it is in line with the broad concept of competence on which the National College is based. Today's law audit has been wanted in high school. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has stressed the wishes of the National College and that these are now being followed up by the majority in Odelstinget. I believe that the law focuses on showing respect for the peculiarity of the high school, and the law provides security for financing the running of schools. The financial system is predictable, and it adds up to cooperation between the ministry and the higher education institutions. The law alone can't save the student education to the schools. It will therefore vary. In such a situation, it is true that students in the grant system will be seen over three years, i.e. over several years. Nevertheless, schools must be allowed to grow. Therefore, the system must be dynamic and not prevent schools from developing. If schools provide school services that catch students over time, resources must also be channelled there. Here the department must be in dialogue with the schools, and the schools must accept such dynamics. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the majority in the vote wishes to underline the quality requirements of teachers, while taking into account the special needs of schools. We are also pleased with the emphasis and desire to legislate for a sound working environment, and that student democracy is made clear in the law. We are also pleased that there is a broad majority behind today's vote, and we support the vote by the Committee. At a time when the emphasis is on diversity and students' freedom of choice in education policy, I believe that higher education institutions are safer as school offerings than for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e157	First, on behalf of the Committee member of the Centre Party, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mrs Skei Grande, for an active and good work as rapporteur-in-chief. The articles so far have made it clear that there is no major disagreement in the Innst. O. No 85 for 2001-2002 on the Law on Public Higher Education. It's good, and it also says something about the fact that there's a common perception that the national colleges have earned a reputation as an important school class in our education system. Folkeshochschule is a different school, free of exams, where students get a maturation year with the possibility of professional development. Not least, the social aspect is important. This is why the law states that primary education should be an integral part of the learning programme. Universities also represent diversity. For the Centre Party, it has been important to ensure this diversity by giving the Board of Directors the freedom of each school to determine the advice and bodies at school necessary to ensure democratic rights and proper operation. But one important change has been made in relation to the odelstningsproposition in terms of governance and advice. For an overall committee is going in to legislate that each school should have a pupil board. The government suggested that this should be optional. The centre party believes it is important to legalise the pupil council. It gives the student council status and framework, and promotes student influence and democracy. The Committee also supports the Government’s proposal for a funding model for public higher education institutions with basic grants, student grants and house rent grants. The Centre Party has been committed to ensuring the financial predictability of higher education institutions. The Swedish National College Council has pointed out the unreasonableness of having two counting days for student grants. The majority of the Committee has therefore stated clearly that predictability is necessary and that the counting date for student grants should therefore be made at an early stage after school. The higher education community has stated that they are well pleased with the legislative proposal as it is now available for treatment, and that is good. Finally, I would like to refer to the majority comment by the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the representative Simonsen that annual support for education for high school students should be as for other students, without delimitation for any difference in the length of the study year. The majority assumes that this will apply from 1 January 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e174	Although there is clearly a broad consensus on this law, and the tribute to the folk high school has been both strong and cross-political here today, I would like to make a few comments on the matter. The adoption of a new legal and economic framework for higher education is not so often the case, and this is an important event. The National College got its first law in 1949, and it was replaced in 1984 by the law in force today. So now we're adopting a new law that will come into force from 1 January 2003. The Committee's position and the debate that has taken place here today show that there is a great deal of upsurge in primary education and a common desire to maintain the school as a valuable and special complement to the public school system. It is gratifying to note that there is so much consensus that the purpose of the National College as an exam-free supplement is to promote public education and public education. This is a responsibility of the individual higher education institutions and the national higher education movement itself. The new law is a grant law designed to facilitate the establishment of the economic and formal framework for higher education institutions when basic criteria are met and budgetary coverage is available. It is the schools themselves and the school team that must be ideological and ensure the necessary quality development. The aim of the new framework is to create a management basis that provides the necessary security for both the grant provider and the beneficiary, and sufficient freedom for each school. As freedom for schools increases, so does responsibility. One consequence of this is inter alia: the termination of the special post of supervisor of the higher education institution. The law introduces as a grant criterion that schools themselves develop satisfactory self-evaluation procedures that are publicly available and can provide the basis for the administrative supervision of the ministry. Public higher education is not just a free space in an educational course with special challenges and opportunities for personal development and growth. It is also an arena for educational breaks and innovation, and I think it should be a school class whose experience can benefit the entire pedagogical landscape of Norwegian education. The few and informed amendments to the vote represent the legislative proposal, I take note of them and see them as unproblematic, and I have also noticed that the setting contains some leads for the regulatory work that the department is doing, which is to be implemented, so that the law and regulation can come into force at the same time. These leaderships will form part of the Department's assessment basis when the final regulation is to be drawn up. I have also seen that the suspension addresses the question of student funding for ten months for high school students. As is known in its draft budget, the government has taken the view that this will apply to the 2003–2004 school year. If this is to be changed, it must be part of the budgetary issues that need to be addressed in connection with St. prp, as I understood that the party in question was also aware. No 1st@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e197	It is good that the Council of State reminds us of the budgetary work and the responsibility we have there, and that we do the right thing in relation to it. I would like to commend the Council of State for stressing so strongly that the educational development of the national colleges must benefit our entire education system. There was something that I was also concerned about in my post. I probably have a strong feeling that there has been a lot of exchange of pedagogical ideas, from high school to the rest of the education system and hopefully a little other way. But what I really wanted the Council of State to comment on and maybe reflect a little bit around is two conditions. First of all, there is security for funding and what the Committee has said that counting dates must be quite close after school. I assume that the Council of State has seen what the Committee has written, and that the Council of State may also have some comments on just how she will deal with that piece. As the committee is so ready to do this, it is not about many months after school start, it must be quite close up, just to influence the institutions to work to keep students and, in addition, to get the security that lies in it. So one more thing, this with the pupil development. We see that some schools get bad search, while others have bigger search. Then it is important – and it is within the Committee – that schools with vacant capacity and with applicants may be able to increase their capacity as a result of lower demand in other schools, so that we can maintain that flexibility in the system. That's the committee's concern, and I would like the Council of State to reflect on and comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e208	I can confirm that I am concerned with the dissemination of experience in good pedagogical work. I am well among those who believe that we politicians are not always the best ones to decide what are good pedagogical methods, but that good dissemination of experience between schools and schools is positive. In the case of the student census, I am told that the student figure on which the basic price is calculated is recorded today on 1 October and 1 February. In the previous regulation, the scheme was such that those who were students for the first three weeks were considered to be students throughout the year even if they ended before three weeks had passed, or later. This, of course, was a very favourable scheme that made the risk of bringing up students who might not have completed much less than it has become with the current system. It is not so unreasonable that the national colleges themselves want the old system back, but I think it has been somewhat unclear whether it is this committee majority also believes in relation to what is in the setting. Personally, I cannot recommend that someone go back to the old arrangement. I find the principle of two counting dates most natural. It also allows schools to count with students starting after the first census date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e217	First of all, I hope that the Council of State will reflect a little bit around my second question, what goes on at low application for single schools and free capacity at schools, which means that they can possibly bring up more students, that there has to be enough flexibility in the system that we can get it done in a good and smooth way, as I believe the committee is trying to suggest in a comment. I ask that the council reflect a little about it. So the date to be taken into account when counting the students as the basis for the grant. I understood the council so that she now suggests that it is the current system that will apply, with two counting dates – on 1 October and 1 February. As the committee has formulated, I think it's very concerned that the date should be quite close to school start, just to ensure the predictability of this. It's very important that the schools have financial predictability over a year. I wish that the Council of State was not so clear that she wants to maintain the present system, because I feel enough that it is not what the committee is trying to suggest through its formulations. I would like to ask the Council of State once again to consider and reflect a little bit about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e224	I don't know if I can afford so much more reflection. It is stated in the setting that: ‘the number of students on which the funding is based will be calculated according to the number of pupils in the school at an early stage after the school starts’. I think it's been a little bit unclear what that really means, but at least in my previous answer I've given an idea of what I think is right to do. If we're going to discuss it further, I think we almost have to come back to what has been the committee's wish. But I think it's right to stick to the principle of two counting dates. It's most natural, and it also gives the school an opportunity to count with students who start after the first census date. I don't have any further reflection on that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e236	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e239	I think it's been a nice round. I think it is reassuring to hear that the Progress Party speaks so positively about the National Colleges, and it is good to hear that the Workers' Party has removed itself from the 'hern' budgets, which did not exactly have a good eye for the National Colleges. So I think we're talking about a new concept: broad political love for a school that's been highlighted here today. But there was a remark I forgot in my post, and it was strange I forgot, because I've been annoyed by it ever since the law came. I think it's very stupid that the law is in bookkeeping when we know how many of the schools are using neo-Norwegian. I hope the department will take inwards that the case rapporteur has chosen to leave the entire Committee's position in a new Norwegian context. So at the next crossroads, I hope you take inwards the target form that the school team actually uses for the most part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e246	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 15]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e262	The Government, through its proposal for amendments to the Law on the Fund of the Information Society, has followed up the intentions of the 2002 budget to restate the basic capital of the Fund. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the representative Simonsen, support the Government's proposal that the return of the Fund be used primarily for inflation protection alongside the fund's expenditure. In addition, a buffer fund shall be established to ensure inflation adjustments and payment of the Fund's expenditure. This buffer fund must gradually have a level of stability in the event of a failure of the financing revenue. The structure of this buffer fund shall be prioritised in the coming years. Grants for church purposes shall not be granted until the profits are earned. The Committee takes the view that the management of the Information Society Fund shall be professional. The minority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, believe that an inflation adjustment of the Fund will reduce the future freedom of action of the Church. In the opinion of the minority, this can lead to large fluctuations in amounts going to church activity. The minority is concerned that the size should continue to assess the amount of the yield of the fund to be used each year on a free basis. It is very gratifying that our old proposal for the return of the Information Society's fund to be restated and that the creation of a buffer fund linked to the Fund should finally be given a majority. We see that the proposals of the Progress Party on a case-by-case basis and in the field of field by area only get a majority we are sufficiently patient and wait a few years for the rest of the parties. The Progress Party would like to see a return beyond what is necessary to ensure the inflation protection and construction of the buffer fund, primarily used to secure the Church's historic buildings and furnishings. The Church has enormous values of cultural and historical importance that the Progress Party believes we have a duty to preserve for future generations. But we see no reason why the Church should sit on properties and land around Norwegian municipalities that it does not need. This should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be sold out and the money spent on funds until the day when the State and the Church separate layers, and use some of the funds for the maintenance of existing buildings. In addition, the Progress Party has put forward a separate proposal to wind up the obligation to provide services. Prestige dwellings are, in the view of the Progress Party, part of the property that can be sold out and converted into financial assets. In addition, according to the opinion of the Progress Party, the place of residence for priests is a living from the past that does not belong in the society we live today. For the Progress Party, it is important that all people, regardless of their profession, should be able to root and set up their own homes without the State legally imposing on a particular profession to live in dwellings belonging to others. Of course, if some of the priests want to take advantage of the offer to live in the municipality's priesthood, this is perfectly all right. But this must be the individual's free choice. It is amazing that not the other parties are also concerned that the clergy should have an opportunity to set up their own homes, without having to live in other people's homes until the retirement age. With developments in the housing market in recent years, it may become too difficult to enter the housing market under pressure once one has reached the retirement age. The Progress Party is very pleased that there is a majority in favour of making the changes outlined in relation to the Information Society Fund. The Progress Party and the representative Simonsen are promoting the minority proposals in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e281	Jan Koløy has addressed the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e284	It could be tempting to follow up on the President's glowing speeches about the obligation to live for priests, but I think I will stick to the matter, which is about the inflation adjustment of the Information Society's fund. When, in the context of the 2002 budget, the majority instructed the Government to submit a proposal for the realignment of the fund’s basic capital, the Workers’ Party opposed it. That's still our point of view. We don't want such a inflation adjustment, and I'm going to explain why. We fear that such a system can reduce future freedom of action, that one could limit the fund's ability to be actively used for church purposes, and that could lead to great fluctuations in the annual amounts that go to the Church's activity. This gives cause for concern since we already know the pressure in the economy to finance the ever-new church chores. We believe that such an inflation adjustment will weaken the Church's possibilities and the Church's stability and economy. In the ultimate sense, it can lead to major fluctuations in transfers from the Fund to church tasks and create uncertainties about already established activities in the Church. It may, as mentioned in our remarks, also affect the Council of Churches, and we think that is very unfortunate. The Church Council is a political force in church policy everyday life, and it needs both stability and stability around its activities. I think it's strange that the Christian People's Party will be involved in moving focus away from the fund by saying that inflation adjustments are more important than ensuring predictable operation of the activities. Exchange fluctuations are becoming more important than capital management, which is a little bit more long-term. Of course, the majority today have a desire for the Storting to go in and finance more, for the State to take on additional costs of the Church's operation, but with the Bondevik government's tight budget, we have not seen it as probable from the Workers' Party. The Workers' Party fears that the majority today will weaken the Church's ability to maintain a stable economic environment in several important areas of activity and will oppose the proposal to restate the basic capital of the Information Society Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e295	Initially, I would like to refer to the representative of the Progress Party, who said that with the inflation adjustment of the Information Society's fund, this was an earlier and old progress party proposal which could now finally be adopted by a majority on the Stortinget. Now I would like to say to the representative of the Progress Party that it is incredible what can be adopted only by the right majority, so it can have the transfer value to other negotiations that are going on these days, and to other constellations and majority to be created, also within the Committee's sphere of action in various other matters. Now it wasn't that this was just a progress party proposal. On the contrary, there was a unanimous committee which, when examining the budget last autumn, asked that this matter be brought before the Stortinget, precisely with a view to obtaining a statutory commitment to the inflation adjustment of the Information Society's fund. I believe that the Government has followed up in a good way what was the wish and intention of the majority of the population, and where it has now come back to the Stortinget with a reason and concrete legislative proposals on how this can be done, both to ensure that the fund maintains its real value, and to avoid, as the Workers' Party's representative had in mind, great fluctuations and uncertainties about the fund's return. That's the opposite of it now being added up. Because once you get a realignment of the fund, you make sure that the capital value keeps its real value. In addition, when building a buffer fund, which is also part of the intention of the proposal, it is ensured that the fund can be restated independently of any exchange fluctuations that may be present at any time, and regardless of the value of other values that the fund may have. Unfortunately, I have to say that I understood it so that the Workers' Party has, in fact, totally misunderstood both the intention and the effect of the decision that the majority of Storting will take today. I think this in a good way also follows up the Church's own wishes. Both the Board of Directors and the Council of Churches have actually recommended the amendment of the law that is now taking place, and for which the Government has proposed, among other things. by a favourable opinion to the present proposal. This will also prevent the possibility of retiring with fund capital for all good purposes that we politicians can cough up at any time, and that we will always have too little money to complete and implement. With this amendment of the law, we prevent the variable number of aggregates from interfering with the fund's assets. I believe this strengthens the Church's position, the Church's opportunities and the Fund's long-term opportunities. I also believe, as the rapporteur said, that with a future distinction between church and state, as some of the parties here both want and see for themselves, this will also put in place in a good way the necessary prerequisites for this distinction to be implemented in a satisfactory and good way. I must also be allowed to admit that I am somewhat surprised at the position of the Workers' Party and the SV, especially with the reason that the Workers' Party is here. But it's probably here we also get some clear political dividing lines, those who want to secure the Church and the Church's values on the Church's hand, versus those who want to use these funds for other good purposes. In conclusion, I just want to say about the duty of the clergy, which the Progress Party was somewhat surprised at the fact that the majority does not agree with, that it seems to me to be a matter for the church bodies and not least for the Church itself to take a stand on the basis of the wish that we all have of more church autonomy in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e317	It must be unusual for a representative to go up and claim that the minority's comments are the result of a lack of understanding of the matter. I've never heard of it before, and I hope that's not the kind of debate the committee is putting up for the future. I reserve the right to disagree with the majority, to disagree with Søren Fredrik Voie in the future. There is no reason to claim that if you disagree with the government coalition, then you have misunderstood the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e324	I think it is very pleasant if the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's representative have not misunderstood the matter. But I am free as a representative to interpret the statements that come from the Parliament's pulpit. And based on my interpretation of the statements that came here, there was a lot of evidence to suggest that the matter had been misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e332	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e335	There was a lot of strange things in the previous article. Clearly, the concepts were used for each other, both financial capital and capital, as a butter obviously did. What we're talking about here is the return on financial capital, and there's no one who's ever suggested that one should go free on the asset, that is. go loose in cemeteries or whatever it may be, as the last speeches tried to suggest. What we're doing now is we're forming a new principle, a principle that doesn't apply to any of the other funds that the state, the Church or whoever it might be have. We have an action rule for the oil fund, an action rule where we use the real return of the fund. That's right. But it's a rule of action and not legalized as a system. We have established research funds. There is no equivalent rule for these funds that only real returns can be used. If we look at the budget we're going to deal with the next few days, it's going to be used significantly more – I expect all the representatives are counting on it – than the real return on annual research. And that's just supposed to be missing. What the majority here is about to adopt is a very serious attack on future politicians too. What I want to say to those who are going to manage this later is that this is how this is to be managed, and you have to relate to it. More of the returns than this, you are not allowed to spend, even if you wish it or need this money for good religious purposes. So we're sitting here now and we're laying down rules for this. It's pretty amazing what freedoms you can take. For the Progress Party, this is quite incredible. This is, of course, a proposal from the Progress Party. It is quite right, as the rapporteur has said, that this was originally a progress party proposal that the others have hoped for. We have received similar proposals from the Progress Party in the past. Then it went to the oil fund, and then we were going to base what you could take out. Now they have left it and are now proposing to use significantly more than the real return on annual returns. So it goes into reasonable surball for the Progress Party in terms of returns and what one can use of the different funds. For those of us who will be free to assess the return every year and thus have a political draw in the Storting on how much of the return we are going to spend, it is always important to take as a starting point the purposes that are important to us today. What is important to prioritize? I assume that for us who make up the minority, it is important to prioritize church activity, church council, local churches and positions, as we suggested earlier. It's important, because it's about church activity today, and it's not what's going to happen in 10 to 15 years. We want that freedom: the freedom to assess. There is nothing to suggest that the Storting has previously abused this freedom. You have never – as far as I have followed – taken out returns that it was unreasonable to take out and use. It is, as I said, important for us to defend that freedom. In the case of the Progress Party, which was originally the proposer, they are quite clear that the return, which is now the real return, which is significantly smaller than what we could use, is to be earmarked for church buildings and furniture, etc. – a very important and good proposal. But it limits the ability to use the returns of community work, jobs and church activity. It's important to us, and that's the flag we're trying to lift. I record that the Christian People's Party believes it is more important to collect taxes on the earth. That is what we are talking about, and that is – if they are to follow the Scriptures – not the most important thing. But you might not always follow the Scriptures. We don't think the most important thing is to collect taxes on the earth, but to use taxes for the important activity, and for the church activity that's important. That's why we're going to vote against – not to exploit or use the fund or to take out what's unnecessary, but we're going to stand free. Every year, we're free to assess what's reasonable to take out, and what's reasonable to use, based on the needs we have. If we have strong religious needs, if we need more jobs, if we need something in connection with baptismal arrangements or whatever it may be, it could be good to have this opportunity that the majority now takes from future expansion. But fortunately, we are in the situation that this is a change of laws that can easily be changed, and I expect future enlargement to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e356	After hearing the previous article, I must be allowed to start my post by mentioning that the representative Reikvam first said that it was a ‘trafficking’ against future politicians. Then he concluded that it was possible to make changes in the future as well. It must mean that this ‘trafficking’ may be of a shorter duration – if one were to use the perspective of the representative in the case. It is true that this proposition is a follow-up to a decision in Stortinget, and so the Government has followed up the wishes of the majority of the population. When the Christian People's Party has been involved in this, it is simply because we have considered and continue to regard the Information Society's fund as the Church's property, and where bigpox politicians should be careful to capitalize. From such a perspective, we believe that the return must therefore go for church purposes, and be used for it. This decision is made precisely because the majority of the population has shown an interest in using this fund to finance church purposes which, in my opinion, it has been strictly the responsibility of the State to finance, for example. positions within the Norwegian Church. In the past, there have been no funded positions in the Norwegian Church over this fund. It does so this time by a majority, leading to the need to secure the basic capital of this fund. When this is about ‘gathering up taxes on the earth’, it is precisely to facilitate future administration for the Church’s best. Although some active politicians want to use the freedom to make use of this, I'm very concerned that one here adds a steady return. And we're going to do that by building a buffer fund that can counteract the fluctuations. One will thus have predictability of the return and what the Church can use, and also what is to go for church purposes. This Decision is a regular result of the political pressure and the political interest it has been to use the Information Society's fund as a source of funding to a greater extent for church activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e376	It's not the property of the fund we're discussing. We will take that debate when it comes to it. When we're going to separate state and church, we're going to take that debate, and I expect us to be able to agree on it. I don't see any problems with that. That's not the problem. I react very strongly to one thing. It is partly presented as if a previous use of these funds has been made of non-church funds. It is true that we have proposed to set up posts. But to me, it's in the middle of the core of church activity that we take off the returns to create some slide constellations. It must be at the heart of the active community at local level. If it's not church activity, if the Christian People's Party does not define it as church activity, I would like to know what is church activity for the Christian People's Party. I can't see that these means at one point are used for anything other than church activity, which is directed towards the Church. The proposal from the Progress Party, which is here today, does not get a majority. They want to use the returns only for old church buildings and furniture – which is important, for all things. Then, of course, a person can discuss whether this is church activity. But as this has been granted in the past, and as we have stood before, so this has gone into the middle of church activity – exactly what the fund is to be used for. Then you can hit your chest and say that this should have been funded in a different way. But then I choose to say that after all, it is more important that one gets these fifteen, eight, nine or ten positions than saying that it should really have been done in a different way. But when it's not done in another way, we don't. Then I'm going to say, this is important, and we're going to do this. I would like the representative to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e385	The representative of Rikvam has the full opportunity to finance such posts from the State budget if the representative of Rikvam wants to. That would not be the intention of the representative, Mr Rikvam, at last year's budgetary procedure. Then he took from church purposes and transferred it to study funding. And then he says, "We read these posts to the Information Service Fund." It is also a form of financing, and it is the use – to assign new purposes to the fund – that gives the fund tasks that the return cannot cover. Thus, there is a pressure to use more of the returns, and therefore also the financial capital. This is the development that this is preventing, by saying that the return is to be used to build up the fund in the future by means of inflation adjustment. Then we build a buffer fund, and we don't add new tasks to the fund. The representative of Rikvam can set up as many posts as he wants if he is willing to give priority to the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e390	This is getting polite! To the representative of the Christian People's Party, I would like to refer to what was said instead, namely that this matter that we are now debating has come up because there has been a political pressure to use more of the fund for church purposes. The fund is aimed at church purposes. The difference is that the Storting wants to take out more for church purposes. I think there will be so little nuances here that I want to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party: is there a different agenda than the one that is in this matter? Is that a hidden agenda? Or is it that the Christian People's Party now wants to use the fund for anything other than church purposes? It could be a little bit of an impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e397	No, it's not a hidden agenda. It is true that one believes that the fund should keep the capital, and that one should build up the fund further to also be able to assume church commitments in the future. But it must not be used by the Storting to avoid what has been financed and perceived as state financial liabilities until today. The whole drawdown and discussion about the Information Society's fund in recent years has been about the fact that there has been a desire on the Stortinge in the previous ageing period to add new tasks to the fund that it was strictly difficult to finance by means of an equal use of the fund. The result is, if one does not provide a buffer fund and a steady withdrawal, that we get fluctuations in church activity, depending on the stock exchange price. That's what we want to avoid by adding up to the inflation adjustment of the fund's basic capital, financial capital – a buffer fund, and then has a withdrawal on it. We're not saying it doesn't go for church purposes. The only problem is that on the state budget you are deprived of the financial responsibility for the Church's operation. I am saddened by this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e406	What's sad about this debate, as I said, we can discuss – and that we're evading funding, as if someone's been better at financing the Church than the others have been. We're all struggling with priorities, we know that. And I'm quite convinced that the vast majority of parties would grant more for different purposes, including for parts of church activity. But then we don't always make it, and then we say that we want that freedom and don't put that bond on ourselves that is so that we can't create ten slide shows if it's all of a sudden important. And that's what the Christian People's Party is now saying, that collecting taxes, building up funds and securing all this is going to be subordinate. That's what they're saying, because it's going in front of everything. What's going on in front of everything is rebalancing the fund. That means with a price increase of 3 pst. Hold it back 3 pst., and then we're going to start building up a buffer fund that can take the tops of any fluctuations in the future. What, then, should be left to church activity, which, after all, should be the most important thing for at least Christian People's Party and SV – and such good parties? What will be the next few years of the Council of Churches, of any posts or whatever it may be? I think the Christian People's Party should also answer that, not just tell us all that we are evading our responsibilities by not giving enough money to the state budget. None of us do. We do not allow enough money on the state budget for all good purposes. So it's not special for us, it's equally true for the Christian People's Party. But how are we going to be able to finance good activities within the Church? That's the question that the Christian People's Party should try to answer and not run away all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e415	The representative of Rikvam is to be commended for having now come down to what the matter is about, namely the ability to prioritise. And here I fully agree with the representative of Rikvam: we have major challenges in terms of giving priority to the state budget as well. And what I think the representative Rikham's contributions revealed quite well is that the will and ability to prioritise is probably also different between the political parties. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased to have presented a government budget that is capable of prioritizing baptismal training, starting with it. And in the years to come, the big challenge is to fund a baptismal education reform. I hope that SV will also be involved without referring it to the Information Service's fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e420	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e423	There's always fun with temperature in debates. Now I'm afraid Bjørn Wirkola has finished for this time, and that it's next man's turn. In short, the Ministry's legislative proposal is to legislate on the requirement that the capital of the Information Society's fund be secured by inflation. A buffer fund shall be built to ensure the inflation adjustments and payment of the Fund's expenditure. The purpose is to ensure the fund's real values, and this supports the Centre Party. Statutory inflation hedges and the construction of a buffer fund mean bonds in the coming years, which means that a non-planned use of the returns before a buffer fund is built up. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left believe that the bill can lead to major fluctuations in the annual amounts of church activity. The centre party would stress that once a buffer fund is built up, the predictability of the annual amounts of the Church's organs will be much greater. Pending the establishment of the buffer fund, the Church must be secured through the ordinary budgets. The central party has noticed what the Council itself says in the consultation opinion on the bill, and that is something that can be stressed: «The fund is of a long-term nature and a governing principle for the management must be that the value of the fund's assets is not impaired. The values of the fund must be developed at least in line with the price and cost index.» This is what the Centre Party believes will be taken care of in the Ministry's legislative proposals, and we therefore support the position as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e437	Objections have been raised against this in order to secure the fund. One should perhaps think a little bit about the story behind this fund – from the 1200s onward, the Reformation and the 1500s onward, as if convents and dioceses were placed under the King and different things. This is important to ensure in relation to the construction of the church that the Progress Party is responsible for in Norwegian society. We don't want to shake away the values that have been picked up. If these are taxes on earth, then perhaps some of the Church is to obtain treasures in heaven as well. I don't think we in the Progress Party have a worse view of this than anyone else – preferably better, I'd say. If one also looks historically at the real values in the fund, it is clear in the case – if one looks a little deep at it – that from 1957 to 1990 the real value of this fund has fallen. And if you look at those who have crashed at this point in time, we understand that it goes down. And we don't want to get along with that. We want to secure the fortune that lies there, which is the property of the Church. As regards cooperation on the budget, which has been mentioned here earlier in the debate, the Progress Party will cooperate, but we do not cooperate on the proposals that have been made to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e449	When two dogs fight for a bone, it's always tempting for a third to throw themselves in, if you allow the irreverent comparison. It was the slightly highly-emphasised change of lines between the Christian People's Party and the SV that made me want to try to contribute to a possible clarification. I never think there has been any disagreement – at least not in the trade committee, as far as I can remember – that the fund can be used for church purposes. It is in one way a reflection of the problem, because what is contained in the Basic Law paragraph on the Fund of the Information Society, is a delimitation which implies that it cannot be used for purposes other than church purposes. That it can be used for church purposes, no one has ever been in doubt about it. On the other hand, of course, different assessments can be made of the extent to which the concept of "church purposes" should be applied and how to interpret it historically in relation to the wording used in the Basic Law, § 106. But what I find difficult to understand is that there may be some factual disagreement about the argument that the Government has used when promoting this proposal, namely that the experience of the capital market fluctuations in recent years suggests that it is necessary to introduce hedging mechanisms against the amount available swinging up and down in line with the fluctuations in the capital market. This problem is of a new date, for this problem is, of course, linked to the fact that the Information Society's fund has previously been substantially invested in real estate, while today, on the basis of a decision taken by the magnificence, the government is required to ensure that this property is sold to the greatest extent possible and that the value is capitalised. When that is the case, and when the Storing with open eyes has done this, I can't believe that there might be any reason to infect the reasoning that the Government has used in its proposal to set up a buffer fund. The debate on the use of the Information Society's fund is well in the run-up to the debate on the use of returns, possibly funds, of other similar funds. To give an example, the Research and Innovation Fund is a modern invention that does not have roots such as the Information Society's fund. But the whole reason for the fund construction today by the Stortinge has been that the return on these funds should be in addition to the ordinary commitment of the State to finance research, not that it should be included as a basis for the Treasury calculations, so that the grant for the research would be exactly as large as it would have been without the fund being in existence. And if I understood the commissioner's posts, that's the point he doesn't reserve, and where he should reserve himself at my discretion, because the consequence of a tune and driving principle that means that the Storting can at any time balance the annual budgets by taking what is deemed necessary from the Information Society's fund to cover various church purposes, would be that the whole fund is actually considered part of the funds available to the Ministry of Finance, and that the existence of the Information Society's fund does not mean that the Church's activity is compensated for beyond what is the general obligation of the State under our present state church system. That's where I have a little difficulty in grasping the idea, that, out of goodwill for the Church and the Church's purpose, one means of helping the Church by actually taking off the funds that are earmarked in a very special way, in order to meet the needs of the Storting that grant authorities are obliged to cover up on their own machine.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e461	This debate is starting to be both fun and exciting. This is probably often the case when people who have not taken part in the debate before come in and try to clarify any misunderstandings or whatever it may be, because what Inge Wohnung is trying to clarify is something that there has been no disagreement in any area. I am not sure if I understood what was the point of trying that clarification. Then I react very strongly to some of the things that the representative Inge Wohnning says. He describes Stortinget as ‘touch and drive’. There is no basis in any of the earlier events relating to the disposal of the return of this fund, which would indicate that the Storting has operated with ‘tow and drive’, or that they will operate with ‘tow and drive’ in the future. Proper and thorough assessments are at the root. The way we describe the procedure, the way we work here in Stortinget, I react very strongly. And then Inge Wage obviously doesn't understand what the problem is. Building up a buffer fund is okay enough, but that is not the case. What's the matter, is if, before we have to build a buffer fund, we first need to restate and then build a buffer fund, and maybe we can use something else that would have to be church activity. What's the point is that when we first have to restate – maybe 3 pst. into the fund and then put 2 pst. into a buffer fund — what is it left for church activity? To build a buffer fund, we can do it. That's not what we're talking about. We may well do so, but we will have to do so during the annual budgetary procedure. But to decide here and now that we are going to restate is the matter, and obviously it has not received Inge Wohnung, so he should have looked through the setting before he ran into the hall. So I have another question that's open about this fund. Recently, we have seen that Party fees have increased dramatically. We have examples that the fund has imposed an increase of 300 p.m. on the Church Joint Council. in the fasting charge for the cemeteries, and then the starting point is that there is to be consistency between the fixation fee and the market value of a cemetery. I have often wondered what the market value is in a cemetery. But in any case, someone has found that it is a good market value, and that they can then increase the attachment fee. What happens then is that in addition to this, they are withdrawing into the fund from the local communities by increasing the fixation fees, and then we are realigning the fund. What is left for church activity in the churches? It surprises me, and it should also wonder others than me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e472	I appreciate the fact that the committee leader is always willing to teach people – and appreciate it very much. Now it is true that virtually all funds and grants in this country that have become more recent — not the Information Society's funds that go so far back in time — have statutory provisions on inflation adjustment. It's almost of course part of establishing funds. If you do not have such hedging mechanisms, the relative value of the fund will almost inevitably deteriorate. One would have to bother with popular expressions such as ‘tooing and running’, but I think that what was done at the budgetary age last year on the part of the Committee of the Regions was to do the trick unfairly far in terms of making funds available in practice – if this were to be the rule – would lead to eating up not only the returns of the funds in their entirety, but also the consumption of the fund capital. What happens if you're not willing to secure a fund for inflation is that you already initially accept to eat the fund capital. This is the real situation, because it is then reserved for any time — freedom of action to use funds in such a way that the real value of the fund's capital decreases. It was mentioned in the change of line instead of the question of whether there is another agenda in addition to the one contained in the proposal and in the committee position. An expression was used to hide the calendar. As far as I can recognise this from previous debates in the previous magnification period, this is a perfectly open agenda. It was last set up when dealing with the communication ‘ Exchange and Cathedral’ from the previous government where the issue of the Information Society Fund played a very central role and where there was a clear political disagreement in the Stortinget. So this is no hidden agenda; it's a perfectly open agenda, that there's a different view of how this legal and historical hangs together. One extreme on the scale is those who, like the previous government, believe that this is state property, dot, and can be managed in the same way as any other state property. The second extreme is the belief that this is church property, and therefore there are very strong restrictions on political freedom of action. I don't take a stand in that discussion, because it's a very complicated discussion. But I just want to notice that it's strange if the trade committee doesn't have enough memory to remember back to the previous period of magnification and to consider the notification of the Church's economy, because that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e483	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e486	Only two brief clarifications. We do not discuss the ownership of the fund. It's beyond this debate, and it's completely uninteresting about the disposal of this fund. There is no one in this room who has proposed to dispose of the returns in a way that is contrary to today's constitution. It is not ever proposed at all, so it is not a debate theme – so it is clarified. There is no one in this room who has suggested that if we don't want to restate, then we're going to clear the fund capital. But what we've said is that every year we're going to be free to evaluate how much we need to use to keep a good level of activity. That is what we are proposing!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e495	No wages have had the word twice before and get the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e498	To round in all kindness: I would recommend to the committee leader that in the future he does not use the Majesty's majority and talk about what 'we' are discussing. It would be an advantage, I think, if everyone in this room is careful to clarify what they themselves are discussing. I record that the representative Reikvam is discussing a little different things than what I and others have discussed. There is probably full freedom left in the national Parliament, so in the future everyone should be careful to clarify what he himself is discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e503	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 17]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e519	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 18]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e527	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e534	During the debate, the representative Harald Espelund, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, put forward the proposals No. 1 to 4, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e600	For § 2 there are two different proposals, the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e671	Paragraph 4, first paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 4, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The grant shall consist of two elements; basic grants and grants per. student.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e721	Section 6 contains an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 6 shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on price arrangements, internal arrangements and controls.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e762	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e772	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e783	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e790	During the debate Jan Koløy, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for the termination of the obligation to provide services.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e821	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e855	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen to the new third sentence. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 6 shall be replaced by the following:Inflation shall be measured using the index of consumer prices of the Central Bureau of Statistics and for the whole calendar year.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e873	It is then added together over Section 6 and II. The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e887	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e901	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e993	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-24-lower.ana.ud611e1003	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
