ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e56	Before we start dealing with the issues on today's map, the president will mildly encourage everyone to make sure that the hall at the voting in Odelstinget can express what Odelstinget really means. This is the last meeting before the summer, and thus this little call to all the intruders to make sure that everyone is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e70	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e86	First of all, I would like to address the proposals. 1 and 2 in the position to which the Workers' Party is associated. Furthermore, I would like to correct a mistake in the setting on page 4, first column at the top, where it says, ‘The same applies in the Committee’s view...’. It shall not read ‘in the opinion of the Committee’ but ‘in the opinion of those members’. This setting of changes in tax law contains five chapters on changes. Four of these amendments are of a more technical nature, such as amendments to the proposal to repeal the rules on the revaluation funds for oil companies, proposals to amend the VAT law for services relating to regular passenger transport data, proposals for amendments to the Spirits Act and proposals for the establishment of the legal text of the Tax Act and the Coverage Act. The Financial Committee unanimously endorses all these changes in the tax regime. The point where the vote is divided into a minority and a majority applies to exemptions from the inheritance tax for certain cohabitants. Today, the general rule is that all inheritances should be paid a fee. Inheritance and gift to a spouse, under this to a registered partner, have an exemption. The tax exemption for spouses and registered partners is currently not applicable to cohabitants. Inheritance and gift to cohabiters are subject to a charge according to the highest class of charges. The disagreement within the Committee relates to the definition of cohabitants. The Government Parties and the Advance Party align themselves with the Government’s definition of cohabitants, which implies that the two unmarried persons living together must either have or have had a common child, or must have previously been married to each other. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party believe that the proposed demarcation does not imply anything in the vicinity of equality between spouses and cohabitants in the inheritance tax context. The proposition and the suspension do not state in one single point any factual justification for such discrimination against cohabiters in the context of inheritance tax. We must also be able to see in our legislation that more than half of the children born in Norway today are born outside traditional marriage. About 15 pst. of the population aged 20–79 years living in cohabitation, most in the youngest age groups. The law needs to be adapted to the new forms of life. The working party is concerned that we take the consequences of social development and the development of new forms of life. Moral opposition to these forms of life must not govern our policies in this area. In any case, lack of legislation will not hold back social developments, where more and more people choose forms of life other than marriage. Children are entitled to financial security after the death of their mother or father, regardless of the form of life chosen. In fact, the Government has advised us to come back with a broader review of the family communication situation, to be presented during 2002, with an overall review of the rights and obligations of the cohabitants. But the majority will now await the situation, and unfortunately we will have new cases where children and families will face great practical and economic difficulties as a result of today's legislation. The tax exemption should cover cohabitants living in matrimonial relationships but for practical reasons, inter alia. for the control of charging authorities, a certain period of time should be required in the consensual union. Inheritance and gift provided after two years of cohabitation should be included in the cohabitation. The two-year rule is in line with the recommendations of the Samboercommittee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e120	Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e123	The rapporteur, Tore Nordtun, has, as usual, explained the Committee's position, which is unanimous in many respects. Just a few comments from my side: firstly, I find it necessary to stress both to the representative Nordtun and others that there is no moral resistance whatsoever to forms of life on the part of the majority in terms of our definition of cohabitation in this context. We have adhered to what is the definition of the People's Security Act. It raises no doubt about the problems of demarcation, and we think it is natural that any extension should come about in connection with the family communication. Let me also add that now there is a majority to remove all taxes on driving compensation. It is a result of the negotiations between the government parties and the Progress Party that we are now removing all taxes on driving compensation. This applies both on the person side and on the employer's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e132	This setting deals with a wide range of issues and not all are equally important. I'll be careful to comment on some of them. The Progress Party regards the inheritance fee as an unreasonable double taxation that we want to remove over time. It hits hard by, for example, generation change in family-owned enterprises. It will also be unreasonably burdensome in a number of other situations. I want to mention an example. I got a call from a insured woman who had lived with and put her bedridden old mother in an OBOS apartment for the last ten years. Now the mother was dead, and the legacy after the mother consisted just of this OBOS apartment. Due to the sharp rise in prices, especially in apartments in recent years, the rate of this apartment was 1.6 million. NOK, and she had now received a claim for an inheritance tax that was far higher than the mother had in her time paid for the apartment. She had no opportunity to pay this fee without selling the apartment, which had been her home for the last ten years. She thought this was very unreasonable, especially because she believed that in these years she had saved the public for several million dollars in expenses of hospitalization by nurturing her bedridden mother. I have to admit that I did not have any problems agreeing, but had to just tell you that this is how Stortinget decided it should be. I assume that it is more than I have received enquiries from people in despair who have come into a difficult situation because of claims for inheritance tax, which they have great problems with paying because they have not inherited money, but a dwelling that they have had in common with the deceased. Especially dramatic and unreasonable, I think this is when there's a child inside the picture. The government is now proposing to meet some of these surviving cohabitants by granting them an inheritance tax exemption under certain conditions. The government has chosen to limit exemptions to those defined as co-residents under the National Social Security Act § 1-5, but also opens up to assess the exemption for other groups. This is a step in the right direction, after the Progress Party's view, which will mean a lot to those involved. The Government proposes that the amendments should have an effect on inheritance and gifts in respect of which the right of access has been obtained on or after 1 January 2002. In the case of gifts, this is unproblematic for the Progress Party, but in the case of inheritance, we want the rule change to take effect from 1 January 2001. The reason for this is the delay in collecting the inheritance tax. The deadline for submitting the inheritance notification is six months after the death, so that it may be one year or more before the fee is due to be paid. We want to make sure that all those who have not paid the fee are covered by the exemption. This will mean that some closed cases will have to be resumed, but this will be a one-off event and will include a very limited number of cases. This extra work for the tax and the shift may not be heavier than that of the survivors. The Progress Party regrets that this time we have not succeeded in setting up a net pay scheme for the ferry companies that is as good as the scheme they have introduced in Denmark and Sweden. In fact, we have come a while on the way, but the Norwegian system still has great weaknesses. This will come back to the Progress Party at the next crossroads. The aim is for the entire Norwegian international fleet to have framework conditions which are at least as good as those of its competitors. Finally, something that can almost be called a curiosity. The Government proposes that data on regular passenger services be exempted from the VAT obligation. It is certainly a sensible proposal, but it shows two things in my view: firstly, that the VAT reform was far too poorly prepared when it was implemented, and secondly, that the Government has quite special priorities in clearing up a reform that so absolutely needs a thorough review. Just like that, it can hardly be what's most urgent to clean up. In any case, we expect a real clean-up in the near future. I would like to address the proposals to which the Group of the European People's Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e158	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e161	As the case-speaker has pointed out, there have not been many controversies associated with this proposition. My comments relate to the same relationship that the others have already had, i.e. sambas. SV has been busy with this for several years. We are therefore very pleased that we have come so far today that we get a statutory exemption from the inheritance fee for certain sambas. The case spokesperson has been concerned that people are changing according to how they live together. A large part of Norway's population has chosen to live together without getting married. Some of these ratios are short-lived, but many are stable, matrimonial relationships, and in many cases with common chicks. 15 pst. Of the population aged 20–79 years, sambas are the most common in the youngest part of the population. In 1999, 49 p.m. of the infants born outside the marriage. In spite of this, it has been a rather long way to go in order to put in place a law that can provide the group with adequate treatment, especially in relation to the economy and in relation to common young people. Today, as I said, it is being dealt with by the legislative proposal before the Committee, but unfortunately the proposal does not go far enough. In the proposal, the government limits its right to exemption from inheritance tax to co-workers who have or have had common children or who have previously been married to each other. This is not in the vicinity of an equality between spouses and roommates in relation to inheritance tax. A plurality of the Sambuar selection recommended, in NOU 1999:25, that consorts who have lived together for at least two years before the death of the first-time deceased, or have common children with the deceased, should be exempted from the inheritance fee and the gift fee in line with the spouse. This is what the Swedish Labour Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party are basing on today's proposal. We are fully committed to the fact that both the Sambuar selection and the inheritance fee selection have expressed their opinion on the matter. They state that co-workers who are left alone after several years of life experience a not insignificant tax burden by sitting with the common property after the death of the first-time deceased. The part of the property taken over by the longest-lived will often be jointly worked out and tied to the common dwelling and the interior, the car and, where appropriate, the cabin. The basis of acquisition for the establishment of property for Samaritans is similar to that for spouses. I notice that the government says they're going to evaluate an equality between certain other partners, but it's going to require a settlement. We think, on the basis of these two NOUs that have been presented, that this point does not need further clarification, and we hope that the representatives will support our proposal at this point. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e178	Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e181	I just want to refer to the central party's comments in the vote, and take up the proposal from the centre party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e186	Morten Lund has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e189	I would like to refer to the comment in the setting on this with fund provisions for fishing vessels. I will not go further into that, but I will take up the proposals from the Coastal Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e195	Karl-Anton Swensen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e198	I am pleased that the Government has agreed to almost all of the proposals in the proposal. I just have a few comments. One of the representatives said that it was funny that we proposed a VAT exemption for traffic information. I understood that it was not wrong to do that, but that is the priority you wonder a little about. Behind this is two simple relationships. One is that the Stortinget has previously agreed that public transport should be exempted from VAT, and then we think it is worth calling to hear when the bus goes, also falls within the scope of public transport. When you buy such services, well notice when you do it under your own control, it's exempt. We think that's natural. In addition, there is a simple change that does not require any further investigation. As has been announced, there will be some more difficult demarcations in relation to the health sector in the case of alternative health services. The problem is simply that professionals deeply disagree on what can be defined as alternative health services and how far such a VAT exemption should go. But it is announced that a conclusion will be reached in the budget for the harvest. So to the debate on how far the inheritance tax exemption for certain consensual residents is going to go. I have to say, in general, when you listen to the debate, that there are bigger tragedies in life than inheriting. I remember a housing debate in Stortinget less than many days ago. To put it this way: not everyone is so lucky to inherit a dwelling, although it can lead to certain burdens in terms of having to pay a fee for it. However, the situation is that, after all, one has a lower indebtedness, based on the inheritance tax, than most comparable groups. I agree that there is still a need for cleaning up the law. Therefore, the Government has proposed to include cohabitants in line with families in relation to cohabitants according to the definition of the People's Security Act. So workers' party representatives ask why we don't go any further. What I think is a relatively bold question to ask, for one can go back very quickly, and then ask the following questions: Why did the Labour Party government never follow up on the Samboerkommission's attitude despite countless reminders from Stortinget, individual representatives, parties and in committee comments? It was probably in the booty of the Minister of Children and Family for many years. Why, then, has the definition of the People's Security Act been chosen that, as Nordtun said, has no factual justification? There is also a rather ‘gruesome’ self-criticism, for the reasons that lie there, the Workers' Party has been ruling for decades without doing anything about it. So the definition of cohabitation in this context is based on the definition that is based on the People's Security Act, which the Workers' Party has left untouched for decades. I agree that there are good reasons for taking a serious debate based on the position of the Sambo Committee. The Government shall do so, and the Government has promised to make a notice of this in the first place, where changes may be addressed, but it is clear that they will then have effects for things other than inheritance. So I have to say that if you're going to make changes, for example. and to register couples with partners, and to approve them under the law if the partnership has been consistent for more than two years, for which the minority proposes, it would have to have effects on legal acts other than those relating to inheritance tax. I think the clearest way to do this is first to discuss how far to draw the concept of "samburgers", whether there should be access to literally paperless living together, whether to have a registration system, or whether to have an automatic working system after a certain period. All of this is possible to do. But then it is important that the Storting should first discuss it, and it will have to have effects on the entire law, not just a selected part. And, with all due respect, the issue of inheritance fees, belongs to the Ministry of Finance, but it is natural that there are other departments that promote the notification of possible extension of the definition. It was at least as the previous government might have intended to do, and that it was not the Ministry of Finance that would be the Ministry of the Family in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e211	I'd like to say a few words about the company car tax. The drive-by party is engrossed in car taxation in general and, unfortunately, increased taxation was introduced in relation to the 2002 budget both in terms of mileage taxes and in terms of company cars. Luckily, we've got the tax boost fixed when it comes to mileage taxes, which also Jan Tore Sanner was in, and that's obviously positive. But still there is a very untimely taxing when it comes to a company car. This untimely taxing is especially due to two things. It is due to the fact that the stencil with regard to private use of a company car has increased to 13,000 kilometers per. In the United Kingdom, for example, the number of car drivers in the United Kingdom is estimated to be 8 500 kilometres on average per year, while the number of car drivers in the United Kingdom is 8 500 kilometres per year per year per year per year per year per year per year per year per year per year per year. years. In other words, a private car is taxed at 4,500 kilometers more than the average. This is unnatural, and I would also say that it is contrary to the general principle of tax law. In addition, company car drivers are also taxed per. kilometres for a rate which is on average much higher than that which a person gets in evidence by making his private car available to the employer. If you buy another car above NOK 250000 because you depend on it in a job context, e.g. For example, as a home care provider or a home care provider, you get a proof per month. kilometres of NOK 3 and, if you get more proof, you have to treasure it. If one uses the same car as a company car and one uses it privately for which one then becomes a stencil estimate, then the cost is per. Kilometer $6.40, for which a tax is taxed. The cost per person Kilometer is NOK 3 if an owner owns it privately. If there is an employer who owns it, the cost per person is, as I said, the cost per person. Kilometres 6,40 kr. This is a situation where the Progress Party is busy and wants to do something about it. At present, only the Progress Party and the Coastal Party are occupied by these mishaps. And since the Progress Party does not have multiple numbers, nor together with the Coastal Party, we have to realize that the battle for correcting the taxes on car cars is lost in this round. Then we will have to take note of this and rather come back more strongly at the next budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e222	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e238	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e247	There are examples that different funding for therapeutically comparable medicinal products can directly affect the choice of medicinal products, regardless of what is medically best for individual patients. Medicinal products for patients with severe rheumatic disorders have highlighted the need for a more flexible financing system for certain medicinal products used both inside and outside hospitals. A descriptive example is that the medicinal product Remicade is used exclusively in hospitals and is fully financed from the hospital’s own budget, while the medicinal product Enbrel is used after hospitalization, later outside the hospital, and is fully financed by the prescription system – and is therefore not charged to the hospital’s budget. This can, of course, affect the choice of medicinal product by hospitals, regardless of what would be the best treatment for the patient. These medicinal products are very effective in treating rheumatic patients with the most severe arthritis plagues. It is claimed from the patient association that these new drugs have given many people a whole new life and reduced the need for surgical intervention, which saves patients from suffering and public expenditure. It is therefore necessary to provide public funding to enable one to use the best forms of treatment. In cases where one is dealing with therapeutically comparable medicinal products, as I have described, it is necessary that such medicinal products that must be used in hospitals should also be financed from the prescription scheme of the people's interest, which was also decided upon by the Storting in the 2002 budget for the medicinal product Remicade. In order to do so, it is necessary to amend the People's Security Act in order to allow reimbursement from the public interest of the use of such medicinal products in hospitals. The Ministry follows this up in the present case and proposes the necessary legal support for this, which is also agreed by an overall committee. However, the Committee does not agree with the Ministry's proposal that only 70 pst be refunded to hospitals. of the indicative selling price of the medicinal product. The multiple goes into 80 pst. reimbursement of the current year and the rates at which it will be possible to negotiate significant discounts from the supplier. With such funding, in my view, it is very likely that one is as far as before this amendment of the law. Hospitals do not have budgets to cover any excess, and patients with the most serious rheumatic diseases are then at risk of not receiving the treatment they might otherwise have received. A minority in the Committee, but probably a majority in the Grand Duchy, i.e. The members of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party claim that a higher reimbursement rate would deprive hospitals of negotiating incentives at the price of the supplier. The working lot is in favour of a refund rate of 95 pst. out of this year. I and the majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party, believe that we have to add up to a system where one achieves at least two things: firstly, we have to have a system that gives hospitals full and real spending coverage for the bladder prescription medicine used in hospitals, otherwise it is as far as today. Secondly, we must try to avoid obtaining any such therapeutically comparable medicinal product for evaluation in Stortinget. This can be achieved by covering the actual costs through a reimbursement scheme, so that the hospital does not incur costs from the use of medicinal products that are medically best for the patient. We believe that such a system should enter into force from 1 January 2003. In this context, the sentence in the second paragraph of Section 5-15, ‘Maximum coverage of insurance for each treatment is determined separately’, is deleted from the legal text. We require close purchasing cooperation between the LIS, the Medical Products Purchasing Cooperation, and the Rikstrøgdeverket also in the negotiations on discounts, so that one within the system described by the majority can take out the discount that can be achieved. I would also like to address the motion put forward by the Labour Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e273	Asmund Kristoffersen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e276	The use of medicinal products is often a very important part of the prevention and treatment of diseases. In this case, the medicinal products Enbrel and Remicade are both used in patients with severe rheumatic diseases. The two drugs have likely to require a more flexible financing system for certain medicinal products used both inside and outside hospitals. Medicinal products such as: Enbrel is financed by the BIP and appears free of charge for hospitals, if they can initially be significantly more expensive than comparable medicinal products financed by hospitals. Remicade, which is financed by the public interest when used outside the hospital, is actually a more reasonable medicine, but must be fully cost by the individual hospital when used in the hospital. This type of grey-zone medication leads hospitals to choose the medicine Enbrel for economic reasons, despite the fact that patients can often benefit more from the medicine Remicade. This is very unfortunate, as it is claimed that approx. 50 pst. of those in need of treatment with these medicinal products, Enbrel may be used, while 50 pst. has a better effect with Remicade. As you probably understand, this is a complicated and somewhat unfortunate matter, a matter that has been important to the Right over a long time. We are therefore pleased that the Government is now submitting a proposal that will solve the problems. The solution is – to put it simply – that hospitals will now be refunded their expenses to Remicade over the fear of the people. The disagreement within the Committee is about 80 p.m. reimbursement of the current indicative price is sufficient to cover hospital expenses. The majority believe that this is sufficient, and indicates that the average hospital purchasing cooperation reaches 30 pst. discounts on their purchases. With this I will address the minority proposal from the Right, Socialist Left and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 1, which is inserted in the configuration. At the same time, I will be shown that the Minister of Health has sent out a proposal for new guidelines on how to take medicine on a blue prescription. We have great expectations that these guidelines will lead to the fact that the Storting in retrospect will not be able to deal with individual medical issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e293	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e296	Initially, I would like to make a few comments to the representative Røbekk Nørve's posts here. The representative, Røbeck Nørve, was pleased that Remicade had now come to this room, and that we have now at least got a temporary clarification. As far as I can remember – she can take the floor afterwards and say if I am wrong – voted right against this matter of financing certain medicines coming here in this way. The right was actually towards that part of the budget. It was the majority who forced this matter through. I am at least pleased that the representative from the Right thinks it is positive that they are now forced into a solution in this matter. I think everyone in this room would like us not to take any individual medicines for treatment. In fact, I do, even though the Progress Party and I have on a number of occasions raised drug-related issues in this Chamber. And it turns out that it's been necessary. It was necessary in the case of the Aricept medicine against Alzheimer's disease, which has now found its solution. It was necessary in the case of the cortisone-free medicinal product Singulair for asthmatics. It has proved necessary now also in the case of Remicade. In this case, the party to the progress has taken the same position as the rapporteur has explained. We are behind the majority position here today. But on one point, we're separating ourselves from the Workers' Party. We accept that the hospitals will receive a refund of 80 pst until 1 January. in the case of Remicade. This is due to some negotiations that have taken place, so that agreement has been reached on a reimbursement price of 80 pst. of the indicative current selling price. So we're not talking about the negotiated price in the hospitals. We're talking about a refund price of 80 pst. relative to the indicative current selling price. It's worth noting. It's also the government's party that went in for it. And you also have to remember that. There is also another signal in the setting. It is for this tariff to be applied until 1 January, for there is a large majority in the Committee which indicates that this system with a refund price of 80 pst. - or 95 pst. as the Workers' Party wishes – shall become effective by 2002. All, except for the government parts, express it in two different positions in the setting. I hope – unlike the representative of Kristoffersen – that at least there will be some improvement in the product Remicade. It was the Progress Party that took the initiative in its time to resolve this matter. But I think, unfortunately, that we still have a long way to go to get these things in place. The Party of Advancement believes that in the case of these grey-zone preparations here, the total cost should be covered by the public's concern also for patients admitted to hospital, so that this problem is avoided as we have today, where most of the patients are actually being discharged with the medicine Enbrel, which is the most expensive drug, because patients outside the hospital are being given cover by the bladder prescription system § 10a, while in fact the most reasonable medicine, which one has to enter the hospital to get, cannot afford to give the patients. This cannot be a desirable arrangement. Although there are two different budgets, there are, after all, public funds both. When there are incentives to negotiate the price further that is the background to the proposal for 80 pst. – or 70 pst., which was the original proposal – I just have to say that if you initially lived in the belief that you would be able to negotiate the price down by 30 pst. in hospitals, on a medicine where we already average the third lowest price in Europe, I think we have misunderstood a little. I hope this decision today can improve the situation for reumatic people who depend on Remicade. And then I look forward to solving this matter in connection with the 2003 state budget, because it is quite clear that something has to be done here in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e317	We are constantly ignoring the fact that the Social Committee is debating issues relating to certain medicinal products and that they are likely to be linked to reimbursement schemes or lack of such. There is absolutely reason to discuss how lucky it is in relation to the fact that it requires professional insight, and that there should therefore be professional bodies who should decide on it. Nevertheless, this case is a good example of how reimbursement schemes are going to turn out in an unfortunate way, which creates distortional effects, and which means that we also need to review the overall regulatory framework. In this case, therefore, two medicinal products used in rheumatic disease are refunded in such a way, and have a different way of being given, that one is naturally given outside the hospital, and the other is given in the hospital. Then you can get twisting effects as a consequence of it, because the population's interest is refunded through the bladder prescription scheme outside the hospital, and then the hospitals have to cover the costs when you're hospitalized. SV has for a number of years been concerned that that scheme should be amended. You should get a system where the prescription system works regardless of whether you are in a hospital or if you are prescribed the drugs when you are not in a hospital. Another example of the appropriateness of it is cell poison patients, i.e. patients with cancer. They are on a cell poison preparation, and then there will be a professional assessment of whether the product is to be administered in a hospital care unit or whether to give it out-of-patiently – perhaps in both cases intravenously, but both parts could be possible. So with today's system, you get the effect that the hospital by letting treatment take place outside the hospital, outpatient, avoids the cost of the drug because you can print it out on blue prescription, while you get a not insignificant expense if you're in hospital. Obviously, that's not how we can have it. We cannot contribute to the creation of schemes that have consequences for the individual patient because the reimbursement scheme shuts down this way. Therefore, SV has been very concerned that the bladder prescription system had been introduced in general, even when the patient was in hospital, this would be avoided. Of course, both the input-driven funding and the DRG rates in general must be regulated so that it does not include the medical costs for hospitals, other than what should be on white prescription. Pending the creation of such a system – because it appears that more and more parties are arguing towards such a system – we believe that it is reasonable to obtain a cure even in hospitals for the product Remicade, which allows patients to get it prescribed there. But it can't be right to give an exposure equivalent to almost 100 p.p., because that means that the hospital will both receive funding at the bottom via the framework, through the input-driven funding, and on top will receive a refund, i.e. a form of double funding, which is unfortunate. So you can discuss what's the right point of entry, but we've found that from July 1st and out of the year, 80 pst. be a reasonable intermediate solution. We note that the Workers' Party proposes 95 p.m., but at the same time they propose an introduction date from 1 October. From the point of view of SV, it must be far better that you go for a lower rate and then cover up for the entire remainder of the year. Otherwise, the same problem will continue until 1 October. If I have understood both the Advance Party and the Workers' Party correctly, they are about to go for the model we are designing, namely that the blue recipe should have general validity. In this case, it should be possible to put this in place — at least investigated — in view of an effect from some point in time in 2003. This is what we hope to become the final model, so that the unworthy conditions of a number of patient groups today can be avoided, by chance of prescribing the product or not, depending on what kind of containment you might have for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e336	The majority decided on Wednesday 12 December last year that expenditure on the medicinal product Remicade should be covered by the prescription scheme. I made it clear that the Storing Decision would require a change in the law, and that I would therefore come back with that question before such a refund could be implemented. That is why I have presented the proposition that is being discussed today. The proposal is due to the fact that different funding schemes for Enbrel and Remicade give hospitals unfortunate incentives in the choice of medicinal products. Both preparations are administered to those most severely affected by rheumatoid arthritis. Enbrel is refunded according to the prescription, while Remicade is financed by hospitals because it is used only in hospitals. Existing legislation cuts off social security disintegration for preparations used in hospitals. In today's situation, the use of Enbrel appears free of charge for the hospital, while the use of Remicade is a cost, despite the fact that the price of Remicade is lower than the price of Enbrel. It is natural to assume that, in the future, there may be several cases where differences in financial instruments have an adverse impact on the choice of therapy. I have therefore seen it as important to design a solution that not only deals with this matter, but can also be applied in parallel cases, i.e. a general solution. I believe that it is not appropriate for the Storting to take up and discuss individual medications in this way. There is also some reason why I have tried to find a general scheme to deal with the issue in general. I believe that this is well taken care of in the way that the matter is resolved in the proposition. Any medicinal product used in hospitals considered to be a therapeutically comparable alternative to a preparation financed by the BIP could be covered by this new scheme. Thus, the scheme will be one of several possible ways of reimbursing expenditure on medicinal products. It is tailor-made for medicinal products used in hospitals in particular. The solution proposed in this proposition provides a good opportunity for cost control. Any decision to refund a specific medicinal product will require a regulatory change. Changes in regulations leading to increased expenditure may not be implemented until necessary budgetary changes have been adopted by the Storting. As a result, the risk of uncontrolled growth should be reduced to a minimum. I would also like to add that this proposition facilitates a greater degree of competitive outsourcing for preparations financed by public interest. Hospitals will have incentives to make use of this competitive edge by providing reimbursement in this case as a fixed crown amount equal to 80 pst. of the price for which Remicade is marketed today. This gives hospitals strong incentives to negotiate the price, as the product will appear free of charge for the hospital if 20 pst. a discount is obtained. The proposal will not result in increased self-payment for the patient. I assume that the competitive outsourcing will offer the same offer as before, but at a lower price. It could allow for increased efforts in this or other parts of the health sector, for the benefit of patients. In the draft budget relating to this proposal, presented in St. Prp. No 63 for 2001–02, it is foreseen that hospitals will treat several patients as a result of this amendment. Once the Stortinget has made its decision, I will design a draft regulation so that reimbursement for Remicade can be given. The work plan shall be drawn up in such a way that reimbursement can be granted from 1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e358	In conclusion, the Minister for Health stated that he intended that this would apply from 1 October. Then is my question to the Minister of Health: Should it apply from 1 July, or should it apply from 1 October? As far as the undersigned has understood the matter, the scheme should initially apply from 1 July. I would ask for confirmation of that. Then there's another problem that has emerged in connection with the work on the proposition. What is now happening with regard to the financing scheme for the medicine Enbrel has been somewhat unclear. There have been some questions about this. Can the Minister of Health here confirm, at least the majority have understood the proposition, that there is no change in the funding system with regard to Enbrel, that one continues as at present via the blue prescription? I hope the Minister of Health can confirm this. It is important that we have a clarification as to the date of entry into force of this scheme. Is it July 1st, or is it October 1st?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e368	It is such that today's Act adopted at Odelstinget requires the adoption of a regulation relating to this specific matter, this specific medicinal product. That regulation will be drawn up immediately. It must be sent by ordinary means, and as soon as it has been done, the regulation will be able to enter into force. I want to make sure that it happens as quickly as possible. My work plan has been 1 October. If it's possible to do it faster, I'll make sure it happens faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e373	I believe that this must be due to a misunderstanding when the date of 1 October was mentioned by the Council of State. When SV goes in and supports a refund of 80 pst, it's not least because we see that you will be able to get a refund earlier, namely from 1 July. I see that the Labour Party in the revised national budget has added exactly the same amount as us, but then at a rate of 95 pst. It is precisely because you will get different expenses depending on when the working time becomes, that the Workers' Party can do it. Of course, if we just had 80 pst. Reimbursement, was supposed to be from 1 October, if you could use a refund of 95 pst. I want to be fairly clear from the SV's point of view that it is precisely on the basis that the working time is to be 1 July, we are going in here to support the government parties so that a majority of the proposal is achieved. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify that the time is to be 1 July, not 1 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e384	It is clear from the Government’s approach to the revised national budget and from the proposals made in this respect that the proposed amendment that is being proposed could enter into force as of 1 October 2002. It's in the proposition. With regard to the entry into force of the regulation, I will have to follow the procedures that apply to the act adopted by Odelstinget today. I want to maintain that the work schedule is 1 October. If it is practicable with a previous entry into force, I will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e391	It is clear that some of us may have to look at the date of entry into force. But at least I hope that the Minister of Health will do his utmost to ensure that this can come into force as quickly as possible, and then before 1 October. I also have the same feeling that the representative of Ballo had about the sums with which you operate. What, when we talk about the same sum, is a refund of 95 pst. And a refund of 80 pst., if you're starting from the same date? It might have been interesting to know. The reason I took a line again is that I have not received a response when it comes to Enbrel. I asked the Minister of Health in my first line whether that is how the majority has understood it, that there is no change in the way Enbrel is financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e400	First to the matter of proceeds. I must respond to the proposal put forward by the Government. The proceeds calculated by the Government in the budget proposal for the purposes of the revision are linked to an implementation from 1 October. It is clear from the proposition. With regard to the issue of bladder replication for drugs currently on a blue prescription outside the hospital, there is no change compared to that in this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e407	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e410	A lot has been said in this matter now. It is, as others have been asked, rather doubtful whether we should have to deal with individual medicines and price fixing on them in Stortinget. Now it has now become like this, and it is then to hope that, among other things. The decision on new §5-15 of the People's Security Act may be able to do so so that we get something clearer and less individual case treatment here in Stortinget. Different funding for relatively similar therapeutic medicinal products such as Remicade and Enbrel has made it apparent that there is a need for a more flexible financing system than the one we have, so that the best and most optimal medicinal product can be obtained, regardless of whether you are in a hospital or not. Is it so that this is financed by the hospital for patients who are involved? Or is it that patients finance it themselves and get it funded by the blue prescription system? It is a major decision underpinning the full funding of Remicade, so that rheumatoid arthritis patients are given the best treatment in hospitals. It was a decision taken in the context of the 2002 budget review. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2001-2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the costs of using the Remicade medicinal product are covered by the prescription scheme.’ The intention was that hospitals should not have any financial disadvantages by choosing it for the patient the best medicine. Now, when the government in revision makes a proposal for a coverage rate of 70, we think it's too low. We also believe that the system is not yet complete and therefore requires a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre, that the Ministry facilitates the proper functioning of the system and that, from 1 January 2003, there will be a settlement between the hospitals and the public interest that will cover the real costs and not give any side or disadvantage in relation to one or the other drug. We have also been aware here in Stortinget that this could be done by making a settlement with the hospitals. No one in the committee has agreed. We believe that this should be dealt with by means of the people's fear and the blue prescription system. It may be a little surprising that some parties today are talking about a whole new scheme to finance medicines in hospitals when a joint committee actually agrees that there must be different arrangements for hospitals and for the purchase of non-hospital medicines through the bladder prescription system. I agree with the representative of Ballo that there is a potential for improvement in this system, and I hope that the Government now – among others. At the request of the majority, come with a long-term scheme that provides the best results for patients. That's what counts here, and in this case, the rheumatoid arthritis patients get optimal medical treatment whether they're in hospitals or not, and whether the medicine is funded by one or the other. So a little bit about this with the date of entry into force of the refund: the Health Minister replied to it in part, and said that the Government had arranged for this to apply from 1 October of this year, but then there must be errors in some calculations here. We haven't fully specified the proceeds, and if we have 2 million proceeds. kr shall cover 80 pst. Reimbursement from 1 July must clearly be too small for a 95 pst deposit. from 1 October of this year. It would have been desirable to have this more specified. Finally, I hope that this is one of the latest medical treatments we have in Stortinget, and that we are now able to get into a system that works both for health companies, for public health and for the state, but not least for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e432	The speakers who are now given the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e435	I just have a short comment and a brief clarification. I do not need to mention anything to the representative Olav Gunnar Ballos, except that the Workers' Party has not considered the issue of introducing a general bladder prescription scheme for medical use in hospitals. But the Labour Party and the rest of the Committee believe that they called the Gray Zone Medicines, i.e. therapeutically comparable medicinal products must be incorporated into a blue prescription scheme to ensure that patients receive the optimal treatment, i.e. that the drugs that provide the best effect for patients are used. This is what has been set out in the bill, and to which the committee, and now, hopefully, also the Odelsting, joins unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e442	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 567]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e458	In the proposal we are now considering, there is a proposal to amend Section 23 of the Law on Ports and Waters. The proposal will amend the current provisions to ensure that the funds of the port fund cannot be used for purposes other than for port purposes. The bill was originally intended as a special law for Oslo port, but during the process it turned out that such a restriction became problematic. The legislative proposal will therefore have the same meaning for all 15 ports which have a port administration appointed by the State. However, it is still important to emphasise the importance of the proposal for the current situation in Oslo port. Oslo port has, like all other ports around the world, experienced changes that have changed port area requirements. It is this development that provided the basis for Oslo Municipality and Oslo Port Government to adopt new guidelines for Oslo Port. These decisions resulted in the relocation of the container port from parts of today’s port areas. Such relocation would free port areas as the municipality of Oslo wanted converted into urban development areas in Bjørvika. The problem at the time these decisions were taken was the legal text of the current section 23 and what legal role Oslo Hafen would have in relation to the areas that were given up and that would be part of an urban development project. With the proposal to amend Section 23 of the Port and Water Law, the Municipality of Oslo will have the opportunities for urban development created by freed port areas on the basis of the decisions taken. Similarly, Oslo Port will have its interests satisfactorily safeguarded both economically and legally. The bill states that the Ministry may ‘allow, in exceptional circumstances and under detailed conditions, properties and other funds included in the port fund referred to in the fourth subparagraph to be invested in projects or activities for purposes other than port’. In the consultation opinion of the Port Director of Oslo, it is proposed that the legislative proposal clarify that the funds of the port fund may be used for purposes other than port purposes only when it is considered to be at the best of the port. There is reason to stress that the proposal for an addition to Section 23 of the Act requires an initiative by a port administration, and that the Ministry's proposal requires special authorisation if investments of the port fund's funds are to be made for purposes other than port. To this end, the proposal of the Port Director of Oslo is considered to be taken into account. A majority of the Committee on Transport has agreed to the Government's proposals. It is stressed by the majority of the Committee that the amendment of the law should not bring ports into the context of port funds being subject to bottling or being involved in speculative property projects at risk to the economy of the port fund. The majority of port funds are required to remain in control and ensure that port area values are used for port-related purposes in the future. It is this fact that, in my opinion, is the basis for the constructive and pragmatic role of Oslo Port Government in the process until this day. An important prerequisite for our being able to provide the obstacles we have encountered on the road has been that the state should have a clear role as a coordinator. It is my opinion that the state must still have such a role. We will continue to risk obstacles in the further process. It will then be essential for the State, through its authority, to ensure that all parties involved continue to play a constructive role and to have the opportunity to take care of their interests through the property company of Bjørvika that will now be established. So that's not the least Oslo port. With this, I take up the proposal of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e484	The representative Froyn has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e487	It is clear that the driving force behind this change in law is under different case numbers than this, and that was fully confirmed when we overheard the debate last night. In truth, it depends on the eyes that see when the amendment to Section 23 of the Port and Water Law is to be read. The background to the law change is, of course, as has been said here, the urban development of Bjørvika. However, the new legal text deals exclusively with new opportunities for participation and now with projects other than pure port purposes. These possibilities shall be available to the Management Board of the Ports appointed by the Ministry of Fisheries on a special basis. The risk aspect is present to some extent, but it is limited, inter alia: of strict rules of approval and approval by the Ministry. The take-off options, as pointed out here, from the port cash register to the municipal cash register are still blocked, as the law has also been designed in the past. The purpose of the law, as we see it, is that the port's best is now to be founded. The consultation round has highlighted that the best of the port can also be considered in a more regional perspective. So today's amendment of the law is about an extra possibility of involving special ports. There is one batch that has redefined the possibilities of exposure to just to deal with the theft. Here we can certainly say that the opponents of the amendment of the law do not give particular confidence to the bodies described in the legal text. A more immediate outlet, as an alternative to the proposal, is pointed out by the counter-debateants. Maybe a lot of people will agree with that. However, these possibilities remain unchanged. The point here must be that the port authorities may decide more even when the time is right and best to enter the market at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e502	The majority propose a change to allow the funds from the port fund to be invested in projects or activities for purposes other than port. For me, that means that the majority obviously does not have any limitations on the opera. Here the money is to be collected at any cost. I had hoped that the Committee on Transport had shown the same commitment when it came to getting money to save lives in traffic, but it doesn't. The current section 23 of the Port Act states: «Taxes levied by the municipality under the law herein shall be used only for port purposes.» The law provides for a definition of the port fund as belonging to all properties, buildings, port facilities, port facilities and other values built or acquired over the accounts of a public port. The reason for this restriction is that the funds of the port fund have been raised by user payment for port services. Payment by users for this is part of the final price to the customer for goods transported through a port and for the production of passenger transport services, such as ferry services. The user payment goes not only to the operation and administration of the port, but also to the purchase, refurbishment and maintenance of port areas and facilities. Taking out values so that they are lost for the port box means that it will be more expensive to transport goods and passengers through a port. The consequences of this are limitations on the port’s ability to make investments in new installations or that other modes of transport, mainly road transport, become more competitive with maritime transport. The latter contributes to the distribution of increased expenditure among fewer users, thereby increasing the level of charges. In St.meld. No 28 it is proposed that large values of the port fund of Oslo port be invested in the urban development project in Bjørvika. The law change in Ot.prp. No 90 must be seen as a special layer of legislative change in order to obtain values from Oslo port, so that they can be used for activities which have nothing to do with port traffic and in which Oslo port does not wish to participate. Therefore, the majority’s proposal can become an extra tax on goods traded to consumers in Oslo, and the Progress Party will oppose a legislative change that may result in such an extra tax. This is also amazing when the majority has expressed on several occasions that more goods are going from road to sea. The main reason for Oslo port scepticism for the development company is the principle that port users' funds should not be used for other than port purposes. In addition, the port is currently facing large investments and relocation projects. In addition to bulk and passenger traffic, Oslo is a heavy port within freight transport with large container traffic facilities. There are both ro-ro systems, roll-on-roll-off, where containers are unloaded and loaded with vehicles, and lolo systems, load-on-load-off, where containers are unloaded and loaded with container cranes. The container ports of Filipstad and Ormsund are undergoing conversion/modernisation. The container port of Sørgenga shall be closed. A new combination plant for these two installations is planned on the island of Sjur. The Oslo City Council joined these plans in November 2001. Everything is provided for by the funds of the port fund. The Party considers that the plans for the transfer of container traffic to Sjur Island are very important and should be given the highest priority. It is also necessary to move or assemble passenger ferries terminals, which are currently located at Revierhavna at Akershus and at Hjortnes. However, how this is to be done is far from clear. I fear that the regime of the Government could threaten the economic basis of the local relocation and modernisation plans for Oslo port, and that the values that have been added to Oslo port from the users, by coercion, will be invested in a very risky urban development project. With the experience I have from this room, you quickly get away from the fact that the port fee has been and will be a user payment for the use of the port, so that there will be a new fiscal charge. In that case, what is expressed by the majority of the time over and over again is very poor about transporting away from the road and over the sea. But it's probably as usual also here, that it's in party speeches this is mentioned. The Progress Party will vote against the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e533	I refer to the thorough examination of the facts of the case by the case rapporteur. The Christian People's Party joins the majority's conclusions in the case. At the same time, there is reason to stress that a process is underway for a more fundamental revision of the Port and Water Law. The amendment of the law that we are dealing with today is, as has been said, caused by the special situation that has arisen in Oslo port following the decision to operate in Bjørvika. But at the same time, this shows how important it is now to get a case out of the law on port and water so that we can look at the whole. I assume that the position of the Progress Party in this matter is situational because of their refusal to operate in Bjørvika, and not in principle in relation to a future revision of the law. It will, in the view of the Christian People's Party, slow down any future development in Norwegian ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e542	The centre party is part of the plural movement, which is a major factor in the change of law in port and fairground law. The case spokesperson had a good presentation, and I will not repeat what the case spokesperson said. But as many people have been involved, the starting point is to address the changes in the laws of Oslo and Bjørvika. That's something we all know. But the amendment of the law is general, and yet limited to major ports with their own port administration, which are named by the Ministry of Fisheries after port and maritime law. For the Center Party, the clarifications that have been added have been decisive for us to support the amendment of the law. When the law changes that ownership and other possessions that are part of the port register can be made available for purposes other than port purposes in a special case and under more specific conditions, it is important that the clarifications clearly state that this should not lead to a bottling of the port register. It must still be such as to promise that port worship is the most important thing, but when ownership and ownership are not necessary for direct port purposes, then the Center Party believes that there must be an opening so that we can use it for other purposes. So the central part will support the proposal with the details. I also want to say that we see it as positive to get a more general review of the port and fairway laws, and not just the little bit that has now been produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e551	This case has been made by some people there that it is Oslo Harbour that wants a change in the law, so that they can actually engage in urban development in Bjørvika. It's a 100 pst. incorrect manufacture. There is no wish from Oslo Portevesen to make any change to this law that allows the funds of the Portevesen to be invested in projects other than those for its own operations. On the contrary, and that's what's weird, as Bjørgov Froyn also referred to, that when you ask what the port and port board feel about this bill, it's a unanimous opinion from the Port Board of Oslo, which reads like: The Port Board subscribes to the Port Director’s assessment and stresses that such action should only be implemented if it is considered as a necessary measure to manage the values of the port fund for the best of the port. Point 2: The Port Board requests that the Ministry’s proposed new last paragraph of Section 23 of the Port Act be amended to read as follows: The Ministry may, in exceptional cases where it is considered to be at its best and, under detailed conditions, authorise the use of properties... The Oslo Port Government has therefore requested that a limitation be included in the law that when the funds are to be used, it should be when it is considered to be ‘for the best’. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: why has the Ministry of Fisheries not taken a unanimous decision in the Oslo Port Government on a restriction, that it should be ‘for the best’? As far as I understand the case rapporteur, it is said that this is well taken care of, and about all the speakers, including the last speaker, Jorunn Ringstad, say that we must make sure that it does not lead to the bottling of the port register. As far as I can see, the only certainty for what the majority claims is that it is the department that has to rule. It is in accordance with the decisions of the Ministry and, as stated in the draft law, «the Ministry may authorise, in exceptional circumstances and under detailed conditions, the investment of properties and other funds included in the port fund referred to in the fourth subparagraph in projects or activities for purposes other than port». It was supposed to be the Ministry that is the guarantee for this. But here too, the actual conditions are completely reversed. So it's not the port government that wants to change the law, it's the department that does, and the government. It is the Government that wants the Port Authority's funds and properties to be included in Bjørvika urban development with a high risk – it is not Oslo Havnevesen. Then the ministry is really the enemy, because the department is the secretariat of its council, and the council is a member of a government, and the government has a huge achievement in costing what it costs, so it has to be developed in Bjørvika, and preferably for the funds of the port fund. So when Jorunn Ringstad and others say that you have to try to prevent it from draining the port box, it's just that proposal – which is not present here for voting, because no one has taken it up – that Oslo port government itself asked for, which contains a restriction, namely the limitation that it should be 'to the best of the port'. And once that very piece has been removed, it must be because the ministry will have the opportunity, its own opportunity, to be able to give discretionary permission for Oslo Harbour to participate in a speculative property project. It is also produced so that this should be something you would like to have in Oslo. Let me then remind you that the port manager for a couple of board meetings since – and it is the port administration and the port director who has investigated this and really worked on the matter – in the supplementary position of this matter had the following proposal for a decision: On the basis of the documents as per 23 April 2002 is known to the Port Board and, as referred to in the case under consideration, the Port Board does not consider it appropriate to engage the Port Authority, the Port Fund, in the urban development project proposed in Bjørvika and Bispevika. This is primarily justified by the unintended risk of the costs of infrastructure proposed for the port services and the fact that it is per. the date is not available to estimate the expected income from the project in the future. Following the assessment of the Port Board, the proposed involvement has a potential for loss for the port fund which could threaten the expansion of the port according to the action plan of the Port Board following the implementation of the fjord city decision of the City Council, such as the development of a possible central port of container in Oslofjorden. Nor can one see that the exposure is consistent with the applicable rules for managing the funds of the port fund. In addition, the Port Board considers it inappropriate to develop the port administration with an element to ensure the involvement of the company in urban development matters in addition to the tasks traditionally performed by the port. On the other hand, the Port Board is set to contribute to the development of Bjørvika and Bispevika [[including Sørenga and Grønlia]] That was the proposal. It was not raised to vote, because a so-called declaration of will to proceed with the matter was unanimously adopted by the Port Board. Nor is there any approval of the project by the Port Board, nor has it been said that one wants an opportunity that is not ‘for the best’. So that's how you view it in the administration that was then. We can also go to today's newspaper, Today's Business, which just writes about something that was up in the debate yesterday from my side: who is going to take the economic risk for the Port Service administration? So, in what I just read, it turns out that they think it's very, very risky. The County Council of Norman was hesitant that this was a very business-economical project, without anyone having made a thorough analysis of the income possibilities available in terms of the square-meter price and property mass to be sold and financed the costs that come first. It is also stated in Today's Business: «Falling real estate market threatens opera». This is a picture by director Bernt Stilluf Karlsen of Oslo Harbour, who did not get the Port Government with him at his request on Thursday, when he got in touch with the Council of State, the Secretary of State and the City Council to persuade the Port Government to re-adopt only a declaration of will. So it is a warning decision that is still in force on the Port Board. But it may be that there is a little lack of interest in this project because of the position you have. There is good reason to assume that when the Harbour Authority’s board of directors has been so interested in Bjørvika’s urban development, which becomes a giant company with a billion-dollar sentence, will have a board of directors from the Port Authority, it is not unnatural that perhaps the current board of directors of the Port Board have seen themselves in a position of leadership and a very important person in terms of a gigantic urban development project in Bjørvika. He may then have a completely different interest than other board members, who see it primarily as their job to take care of the port's interests. Today, current, operational, port director Magne Løvhaug says: ‘The marine community has agreed to actively contribute to the development of Bjørvika, but we are committed to limiting the risk of our involvement. Investments in this dense area lead to many uncertainties. We want the Municipality of Oslo to be behind the project financially.» It is also said that when Bernt Stilluf Karlsen, who is the chairman of the Port Government, has met Norman's wishes, it has created bitter internal conflict in the Port Authority, which is, in effect, the main responsibility for this huge project, without having an administration that has overall competence in this area. So here, the majority both in Stortinget and Odelstinget – when they make this change of law – go into a very potential scandalous project, which should not have been presented as poorly reworked as this totality is. But I am at least awaiting the answer from the Minister for Fisheries to the following questions: What guarantee does one have that you do not bottle up the port fund of the Oslo Port Government, when you have not complied with the wish to limit the legal text that the Oslo Port Government unanimously asked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e594	I am pleased that the majority here in Odelstinget today agree with the Government's proposal to allow ports to dispose of properties and other assets that form part of a port case, in exceptional cases and under specified conditions, or otherwise to be used for investments for purposes other than port purposes. The values resulting from such use or investment will continue to be included in the port fund, and all returns – I stress that a return is required – will be allocated to the port fund. This provision will include, inter alia: permit the redisposal of properties from port for other purposes without the direct economic impact of the transactions on the port fund. The scope of this provision is limited to the larger ports with their own port administrations appointed by the Ministry, under the Law on Ports and Waters, § 12. I record the concerns of the Progress Party as they are shown in the setting, and as they appeared in two articles here. I stress that a decisive prerequisite for the proposal is that the provision for non-port purposes should be possible without prejudice to other port activities. It will not be possible to authorise arrangements which, in the light of further considerations, appear to be appropriate for the collection of funds from the port fund. The proposal, as it stands, will therefore, at my discretion, address both the concerns raised by business organisations in the context of external consultations and the opinion of the Management Board of Oslo Portevesen. The proposal will also address the concerns of the Progress Party, as they emerge here, and it will safeguard the interests of Oslo port as a landowner in Bjørvika, in order to be able to participate in the development of areas no longer used for port purposes. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, refers to the decision of the Oslo Port Authority, and stresses that this is primarily initiated by the Government, in this round also confirmed by the Stortinget, and that it is not the main wishes of the Port Authority. However, according to the Government’s clear opinion, the opinion of the Board of Ports, which says ‘to the best of the port’, has been preserved as formulated in a new proposal for a paragraph, which states ‘in exceptional cases and under detailed conditions’. So in my view and that of the Government, the interests of the ports have been adequately and properly safeguarded. I stress that the provision is only assumed to be used in the ‘special case’ and there will still be a fundamental requirement for the proper management of the funds of the port fund, so that the port fund does not incur exceptional expenditure. On this assumption, the legislative proposal is not expected to have a negative impact on port efficiency. In order to ensure clear lines of distinction between port operations and related activities on the one hand, and the dispositions of the port fund other than port purposes on the other hand, it is appropriate to allow the port to establish a company from which the various activities can be carried out. That is what the bill also opens up. It is also appropriate to guard the port fund against exceptional losses if the investment for anything other than port purposes does not turn out as expected. Thus, in cases such as this, the risk could be limited to the deposit in the company, and the legislative proposal is therefore assumed not to have a negative impact on the costs in the ports. Otherwise, property management can, of course, generate greater returns for ports than if the same areas are unused, and in this way this can actually mean lower costs for traditional port users. Several of the representatives have made contributions to the need for a revision of the Port and Water Law and until it is known that this process is underway. A selection has delivered its votes and hearings are held. But as I see it, the matter can be completed at the earliest to be sent to Stortinget in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e613	The Council of State says that there is a satisfactory restriction here, because here the Ministry will only be able to grant permission in special situations and after further assessments. By whom? Assessments in the department? - Yes! In other words, it is the Ministry that will decide whether a gigantic property development project can be considered to be a sound and sound corporate economic investment. What is the guarantee that exactly the officials of the Department — and in particular a government council with such a high level of performance as to involve the Port Service, whether they will or not — have an objective and neutral assessment? The only assessments that I know have been made so far are of the Harbour Administration, and they are very, very negative. The Council of State also says that the risk is limited to the deposit of the company if you create a subsidiary/liability company, which is the subject of this discussion, which has not yet been dealt with by the board of Oslo Havnevesen. And that's right. But in case you lose because it becomes an unprofitable urban development, that means that Oslo Havnevesen loses the property they could and should have sold to the maximum bidder, to professional, qualified companies with urban development skills, what the Harbour Service doesn't have. So the values for which you could have sold the plots are going to be lost, and that's what I'm talking about. would finance parts of the further container port extension. It's true that the funds can provide a better return. But isn't it more reasonable for Oslo Harbour to be allowed to make the decisive decisions about what you think serves the port and the port community's own good? Is it reasonable that the Ministry's bureaucracy and political leadership should be allowed to do so and risk the Port Service's money?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e618	Let me first point out that the premise for the bill provides clear guidance as to when it may be appropriate to allow the funds of the port fund to be used for anything other than port purposes. No exposure to anything other than port purposes at the time of the decision would be permitted in compliance with the proposed law if there is a risk of bottling of the port register at the time of the decision. It is clear that the risk must be analysed and minimised when entering into this. And in order to prevent such situations, detailed procedures will be required. Dialogue with the Port Authority involved will be required. But at the end of the day, as the bill says, it's up to the department to make the decision, and then assume that it's in special cases and on more detailed terms that you can allow this. That's the constraint that lies there. Then I would like to say that when the Port Service's properties are unused, it is also a poor investment. Then, on a case-by-case basis, it has to be assessed whether it is a market to sell the properties, and whether that sale will yield a better return than the expected return on the dispositions made under the new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e625	The situation of Oslo port has a longer history, and it might be beneficial to have a reasonable grasp of the story, so you don't get confused by the arguments that have arisen in the last few days, but try to see things in context. In 2000, in 2001 and in 2002, I have been engaged in the situation of Oslo Port and the possibility that Oslo Port should play a role in safeguarding the port's interests on the basis of the political decisions taken in Oslo City Council, which subsequently the Oslo Port Government has taken as the basis for the decisions it has taken, and which meant that the transfer of the container port to Sjursøya for the time being up to approx. 2011 was a meeting of the decision on Oslo Municipality’s fjord village project. Then it was then and still applicable section 23 of the Port and Water Law that made it difficult for Oslo port to get a party role that was visible in order to safeguard the interests of the port cash register. This was the basis for the initiatives we took in 2000, in 2001 and 2002 to find solutions to this problem. The Port Service has not expressed a wish for a change in law, but the Port Service has stated that the current law, i.e. current Section 23, has stood in the way of ensuring their party role. That is why we have been involved in proposing amendments to the law to ensure the port service the role that we believe the port service should have. Is it then with this text for the department to decide? Yes, it is for the department to decide, but the right of initiative is not in the department. In fact, the initiative to use funds in the port fund for purposes other than port purposes lies within the port board. And here you have to see the interaction that is a prerequisite for what might happen, and how to use funds in the port fund. In the Port Government, users are represented, where the state is represented, and the municipality is represented. All parties are involved in that debate and all parties will be taken care of during the debate. One important aspect that applies when we are now discussing these port areas is that it is also with a high degree of certainty Oslo Havnevesen's view that current plots as they lie along the sea have little value if they are not inserted into a context. And it's in that context that Fjordbyen as a decision and the project Bjørvika as a decision is important. If you sell the plots today without being attached to that type of project, I am afraid that the port box will waste potential values of a size that might be a bigger scandal than if you would allow the properties as share capital in a development company that would then be able to generate returns, with a significant increase in value that would take place. Is it reasonably safe to say? Yes, reasonably safely I think you could say that, because you see that all the other harbour cities that have done something similar have actually experienced this. The only problem I see, which we get back to in another political discussion, is whether the whole area should be so expensive that it is impossible for ordinary people with normal incomes to live there. That's what I think is a more serious problem to think about. We'll get to that when we get there. But the very basis for an urban development linked to Bjørvika, we will make sure that it comes into place. Oslo Havn/Oslo Port Board could never take a decision that they would establish their own property company. Not having the formal competence as a company to be a property company, and in addition, there is no legal basis for them to do so. To this end, the Committee states in its comments: ‘After the legislative proposal, Oslo Havn will have the opportunity to establish its own property company owned by Oslo Havn and be subject to the management of the port board as part of the port register. The Port Board will become the general meeting of the new company and will have a legal role in the future development of the Bjørvika area within the framework of the Ministry of Fisheries’ decision on the use of the funds of the port fund other than for port purposes.’.» So we have given a very clear expression of our understanding of the basis of the proposal for amendment of the law that has now been promoted by the Ministry of Fisheries. Then it just remains to lay the foundation well enough for these things to be realized. I will conclude with the following: The declaration of intent is not an incorrect document. It has never been perceived as inconceivable, either by the Port Government or by the Municipality of Oslo or by the Ministry. The Will Declaration has been the political basis for keeping a process going, and that is what I have called the constructive role of the Port Board in the process. It has been linked to the Declaration of Will, and it is heavy enough for all parties involved to understand that it has been the basis for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e643	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e646	Let me first comment on the Declaration of Will to Bjørgov Froyn. It is a completely non-binding statement that you are willing to look at the situation. There's nothing there about wanting a partisan role, which Bjørgov Froyn now gives the impression. It is stated in a Port Government Decision concerning Bjørvika: ‘An active party role in Bjørvika requires that Oslo port authorities do not expose values other than those of the property values located in Bjørvika/Bispevika.’ It's required. It is not said that you want a partisan role. There's nothing to say about wanting a partisan role. But I have a question that Mr. Bjørgov Froyn will have to assess whether he will answer or not, since he is also the head of the Oslo Workers' Party. The operating port manager says he wants a guarantee from the Municipality of Oslo. Last night it became clear that as long as Victor D. Norman is the Council of State, there will be no state guarantee for the loans that Bjørvika Development AS has to take up in order to finance the infrastructure and its development project. The other person who may provide a guarantee is the municipality of Oslo. Can it be expected that the Workers' Party in the Municipality of Oslo will enter in order for the municipality to take the risk of this by a guarantee issued by the Municipality of Oslo for the borrowings of Bjørvika Entwicklung AS? Or would it be that if Bjørvika Entwicklung AS does not receive the necessary loans in the ordinary financial market on collateral for future performance in the development project, it will be none of these? My question is: Does Bjørgov Froyn believe that it is natural that if Bjørvika Entwicklung AS starts its project and does not receive loans in the ordinary financial market in the same way as Gardermobanen AS, Oslo gives the municipality or, for that matter, the state, because he belongs to a party other than the Council of State, Bjørvika Development either a state guarantee or a municipal guarantee? For Gardermobanen, the guarantee cost 7 billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e660	I kindly tried to bring in the understanding of today's situation and its context with history. The wording that was referred to from the Declaration of Will just expresses what I have said: it had to be defined the meaning that Oslo Havnevesen has a party role, because it created a ambiguity between the role of Oslo Municipality, the role of the state and between the role of Oslo Port. All the parties involved have taken the wording of this Declaration of Will as a formulation, which has expressed what was a prerequisite for participation in the process. And until this date, however, there have been various disagreements that cooperation had to be established in order to arrive at an agreement and a platform for further implementation of the project Bjørvika and later major parts of the Fjordby project. No, like Councilman Norman, I can't guarantee the project as such. It's a little bit difficult to predict all the details of how this could happen, but what the Oslo Municipality has already done is guarantee 300 million. kr to the development company to be established in Bjørvika. I am absolutely convinced that the potential values that lie in the area are so obvious to investors, that my only problem is what I mentioned instead, that I am afraid that the cost of living in the area might be too high for ordinary people with normal incomes. There's going to be another political problem, but I think that's where the problem will lie, more than a question of getting financial guarantees from either the municipality or the state. And I'm able to see the difference between the Gardermobanen and Bjørvika projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e667	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 568]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e682	Mr H. Langeland will have the floor before the President examines the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e687	The SV and the Centre shall make a proposal to refer matters back to the Committee for further consideration, as the Committee has previously agreed. The Energy and Environment Committee wanted to deal with Ot.prp. No 81, which we are now talking about, and the gas market directive in ours. We wanted to have a treatment according to what the EEA Committee had agreed under the authority of the Government to follow its schedule, but the Government did not. The legislative proposal did not come until approx. one month after the deadline and was referred to in Odelstinget on 21 May. In a letter from the Presidency dated 13 June, one pointed to this issue and raised a written question as to why this was too late. And there's absolutely a basis for waiting for that answer, because in the letters of reply in connection with the gas market directive, the government is busy acting in a timely manner, that is. all the way to keep track of the deadlines that one has in relation to the directives. But in this case, the rule doesn't follow up on itself. The Committee on Energy and the Environment has, to a certain extent, acted in an orderly manner in this matter. When the government came too late with the odelsting proposal, and a look at the amounts you had to deal with, and thought about all the night mats one was going through, one saw that this would be problematic. A co-conspirator's committee therefore postponed the case, so that there would be serious and democratic treatment. Then the mess and overrun of the democratic process that a co-conspirator's energy and environment committee had set up. The majority are turning around after pressure from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Gas Markets Directive is to be dealt with in the spring. It seems that the groundwork is afraid of fisheries negotiations and that there would be trouble with the case that the European Commission has brought against the GFU, the Gas Negotiation Selection, at a price of approximately EUR 15 million. DKK 30 - 50 billion The Committee therefore asks the case-speaker, who, for this matter, is myself, to make a proposal in accordance with the majority wish, which I as the case-speaker do. That means that a set of things start to have ears. At the hearings, all the hearing bodies present say that they recommend spending more time on directives as well as on legislation, because they do not have an overview of the whole-hearted policy and there may be financial losses to be expected if one does not go into it thoroughly. And then there's another overrun. One found out that the laws have to be dealt with before the directive. And the plurality of the committee re-arranges – to put it in the words of one of the SV's comments – as 'a invertebrate sand-pulsing body', doing what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asks for, and aside from the democratic processes it has set up. When I was the case spokesman for this odelstingsproposition, I had offered a democratic treatment for the cottage, which the committee wanted at some point. I had said to the hearing aids, including: The Centre for European Law and the Norwegian gas companies – that they should come back to the fall and comment on the bill. So you get a message from the Government that this matter has to be dealt with in ours, and a plurality, consisting of the government party, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, is going through it across what you've meant before. This is one of the reasons why Stortinget spends 24 hours treating a law that one had intended to treat for the fall. I therefore ask that Stortinget follow the procedure initially set up by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e700	Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Centre Party, has made a proposal to refer the matter back to the Committee. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Brother Yngve Rahm, for up to 5 minutes to argue in favour of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e705	I don't need to spend 5 minutes. I think it's important that we try to limit the posts a little bit, because otherwise we might get a similar debate two, maybe three times in the course of the day, and I think we can avoid that. First of all, let me say that on a more general and general basis, I will give Langeland right in relation to the time aspect of dealing with matters in both committee and magnificence, which, of course, under normal circumstances should be longer. There's no reason to disagree about it. However, what was the basis for the Committee, both in the case of the directive and in the case of the proposal for a directive, was, of course, the working pressure in the committee. That was the only reason we had at the time, and the committee was also in agreement. However, it turned out afterwards that the political sides of it, among other things. related to the government’s need to notify that the approval procedures had been implemented in Parliament in accordance with the deadlines set and set for this type of case, probably greater than the Committee may initially have been in agreement with. That, of course, gets the committee and maybe I myself put on our cloak. That's one piece of it. If not addressed today, it really means that the formal communication to the EU cannot be made, with the uncertainties that can thus be created in the EU at a time when we actually need to be in good dialogue with the EU. There is, in the majority's view, no basis for postponing a case in which the result has already been given. We all know what's going to be the result. With regard to the issue of odelstingsproposition and proper treatment, I think we generally agree that there is no new policy in the odelstingsproposition in relation to the directive itself and St.prp. No 42 for 2001-2002. That's where the policy lies. As I might come up with a little later today, the setting also bears the mark of it, because the minority, consisting of SV and the Central Party, does not have a word policy at all in their comments. You just have the formalia. This means that the debate – the essence of the matter itself – comes under the Gas Markets Directive, St.prp. No 42. My opinion is that there is little – or nothing – to be recovered by postponing the treatment of the odelstation proposition. What is of policy, we are taking out in a later debate today. Let me also say that the representative Langeland and SV themselves – it is my own account, but that is my assessment of it – have contributed to the need to put this matter in place now, by using the media to focus on a link between the directive and the GFU problem in the EU, which was initially not wanted by the Norwegian side and which was not intended. It created an unnecessary situation vis-à-vis the EU, which reinforced the need for clarification. There's also something that we'll probably come back to. In sum, I would say that although Hallgeir Langeland is entitled, on a principle and more general basis, to general procedural procedures, this matter has thus been of such a nature that the majority of the Committee has had to assess it differently and expedite it. On that basis, I would recommend that the odelsting proposal be dealt with in line with the established Odelstinget programme today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e722	Several have not asked for the floor for the proposal from the SV and the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e728	The Odelstinget shall vote against the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘Until. O. No 84 on the law on common rules for the internal market in natural gas, etc., is returned to the Committee on Energy and the Environment for further consideration.» [[2001-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e746	We are then going to deal with case No. 5 At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited as follows: 5 minutes to the rapporteur on behalf of the majority of the Committee, 5 minutes to the minority of the Committee and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be three lines of response to contributions from the majority and minority principals and five lines of response from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e757	I would just like to begin by asking the President to clarify whether that is the way one intends to conduct the debate. On the basis of the signals we have received, there should be no line changer, but if it is nevertheless given an opportunity, the members of the committee should at least be open to it, if necessary. – But I follow the signals from the Presidency that it has nevertheless become so. On 26 October 2001, the EEA Committee decided to include the Gas Market Directive in Annex IV to the EEA Agreement. Thereafter, a period of six months shall run to notify that internal approval procedures have been completed. The size is invited today through the treatment of Ot.prp. No 81 to adopt the necessary legal adaptations of Norwegian legislation in line with the decision that the Stortinget is likely to adopt later today in the debate on the Gas Market Directive, St.prp. No 42. The Gas Market Directive contains rules on the organisation and functioning of the gas sector, access to the market and criteria and procedures for the granting of rights to the transmission, distribution, supply and storage of natural gas including LNG. The Directive lays down rules on the operation of gas transmission and distribution systems, including rules on ensuring that so-called external third parties have access to the pipeline systems in order to open the market and ensure competition in the gas market. I assume that the substance of the gas market directive will be thoroughly debated in a debate later today, and I will therefore come back to a more detailed assessment of the directive in my intervention on that occasion. However, this approach has a strong focus on procedures for dealing with the matter both within the Government and within the Committee, and the minority points out in its comments that the majority of the Committee has forced unfair treatment in the short time-limits under which the Committee has worked in this matter. I would like to stress that I feel that the treatment is not irresponsible, as relatively good and thorough procedures have been carried out with regard to the gas market directive itself. But at the same time, I have no problem seeing that someone wants more time based on both more principal and general considerations, which I had in mind in my article in the previous debate. However, it is important to stress that the treatment of the actual odelstningsproposition is a natural and approximate technical consequence of the fact that the Stortinges then say yes to the directive itself through the treatment of St.prp. No 42. There is, in my opinion, a little new policy in Ot.prp. No 81, which is also reflected in the committee setting. The minority's comments are only procedural in nature and in reality no invitation to any political debate on the actual odelstningsproposition. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being attacked in the setting in relatively strong layers of order for its handling of the proposition. It is suggested that the department, i.e. The government, has had a desire to prevent an open and democratic debate on this matter, and I will, of course, reject it most firmly. These types of motives are not the basis of either the Government or the Committee. I have also explained that in the previous debate. However, in view of the deadlines set for the inclusion of directives and the importance of not creating uncertainty in the EU about Norway’s intention to integrate, it became necessary to speed up the process of dealing with the matter more quickly than is both common and desirable. The Committee's deferral was primarily due to the time and work pressure. However, the representative of Langeland’s newspaper recording reinforced the need to promote this matter fairly quickly, because the ambiguity through media recordings was reinforced in the EU. The signals on it were relatively clear. It is important to stress that the Committee has carried out a thorough consultation of the Gas Market Directive, as it emerges from the setting up of the St.prp. No 42, and there's no reason to believe that a similar process around the odelsting proposition would produce something new of significance. Against this background, I would like to say that today's debate and the decision to be taken are sound and therefore recommend the majority position at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e778	Let me link some comments to the case spokesman, as Brother Yngve Rahm now is after the signatures withdrew, on this with responsibility. If it is a matter of procedure to deal with a legal case within 24 hours, where it is not at all relevant to recruit hearing bodies and experts, but to put all the effort into the work done by the Government, this may appear to be something responsible. But it is an irresponsible procedure that the majority have applied. I believe that the committee leader himself is reasonably agreed on, when he knows the basis for the committee's postponement to the autumn of both of these matters. I dare not forget what the hearing authorities said to the committee on accountability. It will be strongly refuted. Then I get to thank the committee leader for thinking that SV has such an impact in Brussels that a look-up in the nations or the class struggle is enough to push the government and others to turn procedural questions around. I'm grateful for doing that. But the political thing about it is that the Commission is going to file a case against the GFU and may be demanding compensation of NOK 30-50 billion. It is an unfriendly act on the part of the EU. That we should then lay low, as the majority of the population here does, in order to adapt to a directive that the European Union has promoted to lower the gas price, thus increasing the income of German and French gas companies, I must say that it is not a matter of intervention. A little bit about temptations. The problem has not been the Storting. The problem has been the government. The size has until one began to turn to the matter behaved quite correctly. One has been waiting for the odelsting proposal to come, and it was due to come in April. It didn't come. The government put him on. And I want to remind you that in fact, the Presidency has taken this up and asked what has happened every day -- a little bit different from what I use, but the principle is the same. I would like to say, as one calls this a defence case, that, as one knows, I was the case spokesman for this, but I withdrew because I do not think it is possible to carry out a defence case. So, all the hearing authorities that were on the directive, how important it is to spend more time. In particular, Professor Noreng pointed out that the implementation of the directive went very slowly in the EU because there was resistance in Germany and France, among others. Nevertheless, Norway should be in a slur on the class when it comes to adapting legislation, so long as the image is opposite in the EU, where a person does not actually have a deregulation, but a sort of monopoly. So this is a very strange procedure. The government and the majority of the population stress that what you do with the law today is ‘no significant’, that is to say, a very concrete statement that the EU's intention to bring down the gas price is one of the things that somebody has in a way turned their legs away, so the whole EU system is completely wrong; this is not going to work. At least it's an expression that you've been negotiating for a good result, but we don't know this, because we haven't sat down and heard what experts and hearing authorities have said about this. It wasn't time, because we had to do this in 24 hours. Nor do we know what kind of amending directive the EU comes with in relation to this issue. We only know that at the Barcelona meeting the pace of liberalisation was said. There are also uncertain links with Norwegian companies and how this will turn out down currents in Norway. Overall, there are a number of questions that the majority of people don't want to spend time on, because one wants to fulfill Brussels' desire to get this through before the summer, and then the U.D. and the Right control this Stortinget. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e795	With regard to the various effects of the implementation of the gas market directive in Norwegian legislation, I would like to refer to the treatment of the corresponding St.prp. No 42, which will be dealt with in the Stortingen later today, where I will also deal with the matters which have already been dealt with by both the case rapporteur and the representative of Langeland. As regards this odelstingsproposition, it concerns the direct implementation of the gas market directive in Norwegian law. Of course, I am very pleased that Odelstinget takes this bill during the spring semester. I have noticed that there have been critical comments on how the procedure has been. I have noted the Committee's consideration, and I believe that the Committee has done both a good and a thorough job. Otherwise, it is up to Stortinget to assess his own work, which I will not invest in. I'm pointing out that the landfill proposal passed the State Council on February 22nd this year. There was the policy, there were the very reasons the Government had for the argument for an implementation in Norwegian law. But I agree that the odelstings proposition was too late. There are aspects in which the Government also wants to improve in terms of the technical follow-up, as I see the odelstningsproposition. It is in a way a political twin document, but it is the result of more of the political clarifications linked to the grubbing-up proposition, which was sent on 22 February. However, I want to make it clear to Stortinget that I want to do what is possible so that the department's handling and transmission of documents would not in any way cause a difficult procedure in Stortinget. It means, in clear terms, that, in the case of such documents, such as the proportion proposed in this case, they shall be communicated in good time to the bodies of the Storing. Furthermore, this Directive contains a number of important aspects. The most important thing, perhaps, is that both gas undertakings and qualified customers are entitled to access the transmission and distribution pipelines. It is now laid down in the law. But otherwise, there are other aspects, which relate to separate accounts in which companies operate different activities, both transmission and distribution. The Directive also provides for the dispute-remuneration system and other regulatory mechanisms that are important for the transparency of a large, comprehensive market, which transports large values. By implementing the odelstingsproposition, I believe that it is well suited for Norwegian gas sales to customers in Europe to take place in a straightforward, predictable and secure manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e813	'There was policy', said the Council of State, and referred to the Directive. Yes, there is not much policy to be able to read about either. We've tried to get the Council of State to answer a lot of questions, but we haven't really got a lot of answers. But we're going to come back to that. I must challenge the Council of State on time, as the Presidency has also done. What is the reason why a person spends with this in the Government, and then afterwards demands that the Storting should act on time, when a month passes over the deadline? I understand that for the Ministry of Oil and Energy, it wasn't really so dangerous to wait with this case to the fall, but there were other departments that thought this was dangerous, and that wanted to give a picture that one is flunking in the class. For this reason only: the Council of State answers Question No 16 May. 1 from the Committee on a postponement in relation to GFU, that this should not be linked to GFU. That's the main point of the Council of State. But to me it seems when you read this answer, as if postponement isn't so dangerous. So there has probably been a political government from other departments that means that the Christian People's Party must lay down its ground for a stronger party in government. I would like to have a comment on that. And a question in addition: is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party is busy at any time doing what Brussels says, or is it so that the Christian People's Party can still act as an independent party, even if one is bound to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e820	The representative of Langeland complains that there is not much policy either in the document or in the Council of State responses. Yes, it depends on the eyes that see. I believe that there is a significant degree of policy, perhaps not the policy that Langeland and SV would like to be pursued precisely in this matter, but political positions are there, too, with quite significant consequences for a future safe and predictable supply of Norwegian gas to the European market. So the representative of Langeland got into this with due time. There I was very clear after my vision in my first post. I take inward criticism if the fact that this document, the odelstingsproposition, came late, had to be the cause of a difficult treatment in Stortinget. However, I would like to point out that there is a correspondence between the staging proposition and the odelsting proposition, and the day after the odelsting proposal passed by the Council of State, so the representative of Langeland sent through the committee leader the question of whether one could not imagine that these two cases, the GFU and the implementation of the gas market directive, could be seen separately, or that a waiting process of the gas market directive could be awaited for such a way the Commission dealt with the GFU case. I said, and now I quote from my reply to the representative of Langeland and the committee: "On this basis, I would strongly advise against the fact that the Stortinget might postpone the treatment of the gas market directive in the light of the GFU case." I believe that there was clear, unambiguous advice to the Committee, so that the government's view and my view on this matter should not be misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e829	I would like to leave what is going on in the course of proceedings in this round. I understand that you have an interest in pushing the facts of the matter into a later debate tonight, but still. The Council of State states that ‘it is well-placed’ means that Norwegian gas sales to Europe should be carried out in a fair and secure manner. I'm sure there's no doubt about it. However, there is no doubt that there is already a fundamental contradiction between Norway’s interests and the EU’s interests in this matter. We will come back to this later today. Nor is there any doubt that the gas market directive that is now accepted by a majority on the Stortinget will lead to significant loss of income for the nation of Norway over time. I find it almost alarming that the new president of ESA, Einar Bull, said the following to the Daily in an interview on May 7th this year: ‘I think Norway may be more cumbersome in its use by the Court of Justice. It will provide Norway with clarity on the content of the EEA Agreement.’» He stressed that: ‘The agreement is a dynamic regulatory framework and that ESA is constantly taking on board new areas, among other things they are looking at differences in treatment now than they did at the time of the conclusion of the EEA’. The heading is: 'Norway is afraid of losing. The ESA leader considers Norway to be too cowardly about the EEA Agreement.’ I should have liked to have had the Council of State comment on what kind of case the Council of State looks at as great as enough to use the court and to say no to implement the directive, when it is known that this is a matter where our customers on gas unilaterally oblige Norway to reduce their prices by implementing an EU directive, which has one purpose, to benefit the largest customer of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e848	Thus, it is not that when the gas negotiation committee instrument was terminated, it should only be pushed through because of the EU pressure and wish that it should be the only reason, while Norwegian interests lose. It is such that the GFU scheme was an appropriate and appropriate instrument for the disposal of Norwegian gas in an initial phase. However, it is also true that the markets have changed and that the instruments that Norway wants to use in terms of gas sales had come to a point where there were other mechanisms that were equally suitable. That is why the GFU system was resolved and arranged before other matters were intended to be integrated into this. It was on an independent basis, also based on Norwegian interests, that this was done. There is no evidence at all as the representative of Enoxsen now believes to know, namely that the introduction of the gas market directive will lead to significant loss of income for Norway. I have seen that such claims have been made. It has not yet been documented. Gas prices in the EU are still such that Norway has every reason to be satisfied. We have great gas sales opportunities for Europe, and it seems that the new sales mechanisms that have been put into service are working satisfactorily. I refer to the last agreement that Statoil has made with British buyers, of over 5 billion standard cubic meters of gas at a satisfactory price, and that Statoil is well pleased with. With regard to the use of the Court of Justice, I agree with the representative of Enoxsen. It shall be used where appropriate. I don't want to pre-prosecut what matters should be relevant here. However, it is clear that the European Court of Justice is part of the mechanism of the EEA Agreement that can be used if necessary. But we don't use the institutions of the arrangements unnecessarily, so where we can figure out amicable agreements, of course, we use that possibility. We're also betting on that in the case of the GFU case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e855	In the setting of the legislative proposal we are discussing, the majority in the committee write that the adjustments you make in the law are 'necessary'. There is something that remains when it comes to the Gas Market Directive, that it has really nothing to say to Norway and any Norwegian interests. My first question to the Council of State is this: when one is aware that the Commission is saying that the objective is to bring down the gas price – and had it as its main objective in relation to this gas market directive and the adjustments we are now making in Norwegian law – does it mean that the Commission has lost to the Steensnæs State Council, that it is the Steensnæs, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the U.D. that goes out victorious, so that the EU system does not win out with the intention of the directive? The second question relates to the distribution of rents, with the system you can now see. The fact that one has not been given the deregulation that one wanted in Germany and France, but actually sees a opposite trend – that monopolies are strengthening – does this not mean that Norway is weakening its legislation vis-à-vis the EU and in this way helps to strengthen the income of shareholders in these companies, and that this is the main concern of this directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e864	I see no dramatic changes in the allocation of Norwegian gas to Europe through the change that is now taking place. This is due to substantially two factors. One is that the EU also recognises and sees the benefits of long-term contracts, as ensured by the GFU scheme to Norwegian gas supplies. The second is that Norway can, of course, if Stortinget thinks so, fail to implement this in Norwegian law. In that case, it would have an effect like a veto, as it is called, or a non-implementation, with the consequences it has in relation to the EEA Agreement. What is more important, however, is that the EU will in any case implement the mechanisms of the Gas Market Directive. Norway is thus limited in its ability to influence the way gas is traded in the EU. That is why I see no dramatic changes that affect Norwegian gas sales by one implementing this either. Nor do prices in the gas market indicate that we are now facing a completely different situation with gas prices that drain us of significant revenues, as claimed by some teams. It's by no means documented. Has the Commission lost sight of what has been Norway's intention? No, I think someone has to admit that here, as in all other circumstances, there will be a conflict of interest between the seller and the buyer. It is clear that the Commission, representing the buyer group – for the EU as a net importer of Norwegian gas – will work at the most reduced prices, while Norway, as a seller, is interested in the opposite. We can only note that we have gas prices at a level that I believe is satisfactory both for the buyer and the seller. With regard to the distribution of rent on land, I think it will be primarily related to how the EU applies its tax. It would be unfair and worrying if taxes on coal, for example: would be lower than the tax imposed on gas and oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e874	I would remind the Council of State when he claims that gas prices in Europe are at a high level, that it is actually before the directive is implemented, before full competition is introduced in the EU in this area and before liberalisation in the sector. The Council of State said in its previous reply to me that there was no record of any loss of income. I have to say that I find quite perceptive, because this is therefore a Council of State from a government that presents competition and liberalisation as the main instrument for reducing costs in the production of services. Then my follow-up question becomes to the Council of State: what is the difference between introducing free competition in this area, as the EU does in the hope of reducing costs, and what the Government does when it wants to introduce free competition in everything from service production in the municipal sector to what it may be, for one single purpose: prices, costs, on service production, and quality? What kind of professional coatings does the Council of State have to say that it will not lead to price pressure at the first stage, at the manufacturer, when introducing free competition and strengthening the power of the buyer at the expense of the seller? Can the Council of State provide any technical evidence that it has previously proved not to lead to a price reduction? And if he can put forward such a statistic or argument, why do you think you have to achieve other results in, for example, the municipal sector through the introduction of competition in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e881	When the representative, Mr Enoksen, says that the gas prices we are now seeing are the result of the non-implementation of the directive, I would like to remind the representative, Mr Enoksen, that Norway has closed the GFU scheme and that individual sales contracts, i.e. company-based sales contracts, have been implemented. I can then refer to the contract that Statoil has concluded with British buyers based on the new system, with satisfactory prices. As regards free competition and reduced costs, it is clear that we must be prepared that the price of gas will also be tried by the buyer. But here it's up to the companies to negotiate the prize. And then the buyer, who is interested in Norwegian gas – and that is a significant interest in – has a good argument for his part. In fact, the market is asking for Norwegian gas. It will probably be the market for up to twice what we sell today. 50 billion standard cubic meters can easily become 100 billion standard cubic meters, a little bit depending on what we have to find on the Norwegian base. In any case, there is no reason to indicate that prices will lead to significant loss of income, to take the statement that, in my view, is non-negligible, once again. One of the main reasons is that customers also realize that the price of course is an important element in these negotiations. But also long-term and delivery capability is an essential aspect of it. Therefore, the new mechanism also contains the same degree of long-term contracts, as much as the more short-term ones. And I think that will have a big impact on price developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e888	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 568]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e896	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e913	In addition, the President will draw attention to an addition to the note as follows: the first to fourth subparagraphs become the second to the fifth subparagraphs. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e927	Notification of Odelsting's decision will be sent to the Storage Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e934	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 2, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 3, by Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 4, by Per Erik Monsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party proposal No. 5, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 6, by Morten Lund, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 7 and 8, from Karl-Anton Swensen on behalf of the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1068	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: In Law 19 June 1964 No. 14 on the inheritance tax and certain gifts are amended as follows: «New § 47 A is replaced by the following:DefinitionAs cohabitants, this law includes persons who are subject to the provisions of § 1-5 and two unmarried persons who have lived together in matrimonial relationships for two years and continue to live together."
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1144	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following:It is irrelevant for the provision in front of whether marriage or cohabitation has ceased in the event of death.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1186	The President will vote on the motions for resolutions. 2, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of the Tax Act and first mention the proposals No. 7 and 8 from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: new point (m) of the first paragraph of Section 5-15 shall be replaced by the following:(m) the benefit gained from work which is not the business income on board ships and from work in the form of fishing.IIThe amendment under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 July 2002. [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 6 to 60 is replaced by the following: Taxes that have been carried out personally or engaged in fishing or fishing on the sea or along the coast for at least 130 days of the year of income are deducted by up to 30 per cent of the net labour income of the fishing or fishing activity, limited to 100 000 SEK.§ 6 to 61, first paragraph is replaced by the following: Seafarers are deducted by up to 30 per cent of the income on board, limited to 100 000 SEK.§ 7 to 11, first paragraph, point (d), first sentence is replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] [[1]] [[1]] Tax collectors engaged in fishing activities on their own fishing vessels or renting such vessels to others using the vessel in fishing activities may require deduction of general income for the provision of funds in accordance with the rules laid down in this provision.2. The provision is limited up to 30 pst. of the general income for the year in respect of the activities referred to in the preceding subparagraph.3. Provisions must be made before the end of the period of notice.4. Amounts deducted under the above provisions shall be added to the taxpayer's income for the year in which the funds are disbursed, and at the latest by the fifth year after deduction of the amount.The Ministry shall provide for the completion and implementation of this provision.§ 14-43 second subparagraph, new point (d) shall be replaced by:d. ships and fishing vessels covered by the first subparagraph, e. The balance of these means of operation may be depreciated by up to 20 per cent. The Ministry may provide for the completion and implementation of this provision. III Amendment I shall enter into force immediately and with effect from the year 2002 onwards.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1264	Proposal No. 6, from the Center Party, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 10-12 is replaced by the following:In the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate on the entire dividend:(a) The recipient of dividends is a corporation, etc. as referred to in the first subparagraph of Section 2-2.(b) Dividends received to active shareholders, so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated income of persons allocated to the shareholder of the company or company in which he holds, directly or indirectly, a holding in the year of income dividends are distributed. [[tax laws]] Assimilated to active shareholders are taxpayers with whom the asset is to be identified under Sections 12 to 11. In indirect ownership or identification under Sections 12 to 11, account is taken only of personal income that has not provided the basis for full remuneration for taxpayers assigned to the company’s income.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1290	Proposal No. 4, from the Advance Party and the Coast Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5-13 is replaced by the following:The advantage of private use of the employer's car is determined on the basis of an estimated annual private driving distance of 10000 km and the addition of driving between home and work.The first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 6-12 is replaced by the following:The reduction after the first subparagraph shall not exceed 50 per cent of the estimated total cost of the car.IIThe changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 1 January 2002.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1325	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 concerning taxes on wealth and income, point (d) of the second paragraph of Article 14 to 43 is amended as follows:(d) passenger cars, tractors, machinery, tools, instruments, furniture, etc. – 20 %.IIThe amendment shall enter into force immediately with effect for investments made after 1 July 2002.’» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1445	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section VII of the Tax Law is replaced by the following:The amendments under II shall enter into force without delay, with effect for inheritances acquired on or after 1 January 2001, and with effect for gifts acquired on or after 1 January 2002.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1463	It goes over the first, third, fourth and fifth terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1574	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1587	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 21 December 2000 114 repealing Law No 19 June 1969 67 on the levying of investment etc. the following amendment shall be added:IDEL II shall be replaced by:The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2003, with the exception of paragraphs 6 and 7 which shall be repealed from the date of the King's decision.IIThe amendment under I shall enter into force immediately.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1614	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1624	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1631	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1715	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 5-15 of the Law on Social Security shall be replaced by the following:The maximum coverage for each treatment shall be determined separately. At the time of treatment, the member may not be compulsorily compulsorily charged to the medicinal product.» An alternative is to vote between the Committee's position on the second paragraph of Section 5-15 and the proposal of the Right, Socialist Left and Christian People's Party, then on the first and third paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1754	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1764	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1777	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1805	The Party of Advances and the Coastal Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1818	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Coastal Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1832	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1839	There is already a vote on the proposal by the Socialist Left and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1940	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1953	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e1967	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-18-lower.ana.ud1086e2200	Since this is the last meeting in Odelstinget in this session, the President will take the opportunity to wish everyone a really good holiday.
