ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e29	Once again, the company Moxy Trucks AS is subject to treatment in this room. After financial difficulties, state-owned AS Olivin entered the owner’s side in 1991 by two thirds, or 20 million. kr, of the share capital. In 1996, Olivin Moxy added another 10 million. kr. The year after, Olivin bought Komatsu's holding. In 1998, 30 new and fresh millions came to this company. Following the acquisition by the State of the shares in Moxy in December 2000, as part of the partial privatisation of Olivin, there are too many. 1 year ago added 50 million. kr in State share capital in addition to a 30 million operational credit guarantee. kr. It is an extension of this guarantee that Stortinget will decide today. The Committee has taken note of the measures taken to bring the company forward on a profitable basis. In December 2000, the consulting firm Hartmark Consulting carried out an independent review and assessment of the situation and plans for further operations. It was pointed out in the final report that Moxy has a good result and appears to master production technology. Furthermore, it was emphasised that the main problem was the lack of one industrial owner to provide industry knowledge, customer insight and international market power. This is in agreement with the Committee and underlines the importance of Moxy being taken over by private owners who can take up business so that it becomes economically viable. The status of the company is a strained liquidity situation. The main reason is that the company has had to meet most of the working capital needs of the US subsidiary with the operating credit in Norway. The liquidity pressure has been increased due to sales success in the US market. It is the board's opinion that without a solution to the operational credit problem in the United States, the probability that the Playka Group will exercise its option right is strongly impaired. You think it could reduce the possibility of a transition for Moxy to private owners. I was in contact with the Gameka Group now an hour ago, and they're going to have the board meeting this evening where they're going to assess whether they're going to go in and take over 51 pst. of the shares in the company. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, considers that an extension of the State guarantee for operational credit is necessary, both in order to ensure adequate funding and to complete the restructuring process. The majority therefore support the Government's proposal. The Progress Party has been opposed to proposals for state capital and guarantees for the operation for all the years it has been in force. When it is said that Moxy Trucks AS has a good product, a significant sale and can be established as a profitable company – if it is right – the stakeholders should almost be in line to invest their own money in this business. If everything in the consultant's report is correct, and what is said by the board is right, there should be no problem in getting private to engage, we believe. It should be so that many of the millionaires or billionaires we know, for example. in Møre and Romesdal, may be expected to be interested, and indeed to compete to bet on this activity. The Progress Party has a proposal on this. We believe it needs to be carried out a share issue that generates the necessary risk capital by increasing private ownership participation in Moxy Trucks AS. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party on this, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e48	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1794]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e66	The Economic and Social Committee is in agreement with the present position on the implementation of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act in the years 1999 and 2000. The Committee notes that the major contribution of the fishing industry to the creation of value added, important jobs and crucial importance for coastal settlements are being taken into account. When you read this big message, you get good information about how important the fishing industry really is to the incomes of our entire society, but I don't think everyone is aware of the crucial importance this industry has for it to continue living in rural areas and, to a large extent, in many cities along our long-range coast. Thus, traditional fisheries and aquaculture are also of great importance for other industries to be able to operate and develop. There is nothing too strong to say that the fisheries sector is crucial for rural settlements. From this point of view, it is so important to take strong action to conserve resources and ensure the landing of land-based catches that create jobs on land. The Committee noted that foreign landings in Norway were 25 pst. of all sales through the sales teams in 2000. It goes without saying that such quantities are of great importance to the fishing industry on land, and this is particularly important for the northern part of the country. In the committee, we have registered that Sweden and Denmark have complained about the Norwegian transit ban to the European Commission and that the Commission has acceded to the opinion of these countries. The Committee points out that proposals for solutions have been made and stresses the importance of solutions to this important issue. In the autumn of 2000, there was a strong focus on illegalities in the fishing industry, where both fishermen and purchasers came to the fore. This was taken very seriously, not least because this also needs to be seen in the light of the difficult resource situation. It is good to see that the instruments put in place by the Department had an immediate deterrent effect. The Committee considers that this development must continue to be closely monitored. Norwegian fish exports amounted to DKK 31.4 billion in 2000. This was an increase compared to 1999. This underlines the importance of this industry for our country. The Committee has been concerned to note that there is an export reduction for salmon in 2001. This is outside the years of notification, but this is alarming for such an important part of fish exports, and the Committee therefore calls for appropriate information to be provided. For my part, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the way in which the Minister for Fisheries has informed me on this important matter, at the latest with a letter a few days ago. There must be a shared responsibility here to find solutions that can address the situation. Finally, the Committee points out that market investments through the Committee on Exports have a good impact on industry and refers to an analysis that concludes that the industry will receive DKK 3 again for each krona invested in the EU salmon market. The Committee welcomes this outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e89	The attitude on the law on raw fish in the last two years is unanimous, and I take the word just too briefly to comment on one specific point in the setting where what has been said is needed by the Central Party. The system of the Raw Fish Act means that catches landed in Norway cannot be made out of the country without being traded through or authorised by a sales team. So we have a so-called transit ban, which is an important part of the system itself behind the Raw Fish Act. There is now a challenge from Sweden and Denmark in relation to the EU Commission and the EU system for issues of illegal distortion of competition. The Committee has noted this, and has stated that it stresses the importance of resolving this issue and that the Ministry is adequately briefing on the further development of the matter. I just want to stress – perhaps the seaworthiness – that it is important for the Central Party that this issue be resolved in such a way that a transit ban can still be maintained. It is necessary to clarify this, because the Central Party is of the opinion that if you do not resolve this matter in such a way that you can maintain the transit ban, you will also be able to erode the system and purpose of the Raw Fish Act itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e98	I am recording that there is an overall committee that is behind the setting, and the description of the industry that the rapporteur gave me, I am so strongly joining in. The purpose of the Storting Communication is to inform the Storting about the implementation of both the Raw Fish Act and the Fish Exports Act, thereby providing the Stortinget with knowledge of some key turnover figures. The notification is provided every two years, and so we will continue the practice. Although this is a communication on the activities in 1999 and 2000, I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to underline the Government’s view on the organisation of the first-hand turnover as expressed in the Sem Declaration, which underpins the work of the Government. The Raw Fish Act must be continued as a basis for fisheries policy. At the same time, of course, we will follow it up and, if necessary, adjust the law where development so warrants, but I stress that I have no immediate plans in this way. So the raw fish law is stuck. 2000 was a very good year for the industry, as the rapporteur also stated. And despite the fact that 2001 did not turn out to be as good, I am optimistic about the opportunities in the marine sector of the time to come. The industry is used to fluctuations, and I am convinced that the foundation that lies there is a good foundation for development in the future. I monitor developments closely and assess the framework conditions continuously, so that they are adapted to the current situation, whether there are fluctuations in the whitefish sector or in the salmon sector. For me, it is important to ensure that our vision ‘Values from the sea – the future of Norway’ is a guide and a source of inspiration for the management of our fishing resources and the formulation of trade policy. With regard to the concrete decrease in the export value of salmon, I – as the case-rapporteur was also involved – have chosen to inform the business committee about this in a separate letter. It concerns, first and foremost, 2001 which is not part of the notification as such. The rapporteur addressed different aspects of the industry – the potential, control, transit, etc., and I will comment on some of it. If we are to achieve our goal of multiplying the value creation in the industry by 2020, it is important that we keep our own ranks in order. In relation to the fight against illegalities in the fishing industry, I can assure Stortinget that this is being taken seriously. I arranged a few weeks ago a meeting where the authorities and various parts of the industry – from fishing to production and export, the Rogaland State Attorney, Coast Guard, the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Customs and Fees – met and discussed the situation, and then went on the way. It was a meeting with a broad representation, which put ethics on the agenda. It is reassuring to record that all parties in the fishing industry take the issue of illegalities very seriously, and together we must work to reduce this problem as much as possible. In this context, the government considered it important to earmark resources for resource control, and concretely strengthening the control effort on the kaikant and at sea. In 2001, the revised budget allocated funds to 18 new posts in the Directorate for Fisheries. These will continue and efforts will be stepped up further in 2002. For example, the proposal for the introduction of a landing note shall be finalised and sent to the hearing in order to facilitate its entry into force as soon as possible. This is only part of the areas of activity involved in optimising resource control. And I stress that the industry is very prepared to contribute in that way. In its opinion, the Committee asked for an explanation of the progress of the transit case, which was also addressed by the case-rapporteur and which was involved in the contributions of the representative, Mr Arnstad. Here I can inform you that the process is continuing. We are in a dialogue on how transit can be carried out in practical and technical terms if an agreement is concluded. With regard to the proposals we have made in two PMs to the European Commission, we expected a response to a high-level meeting held between the Commission and the Ministry of Fisheries in January. However, this did not happen, but it was announced by the EU that the intention was to give feedback at the next high-level meeting on 1 June 2002. There is no doubt that the potential for growth in the fisheries and aquaculture industry is high. However, good access to markets is essential to succeed in realising this potential. I am therefore pleased that the Business Committee has noted the outcome of the Committee on Exports for Fish's Market Investment. In a long-term perspective, the new round of negotiations in the WTO is particularly important and, in this respect, the Government attaches particular importance to customs conditions for maritime food exports and to tighten up the use of the anti-dumping tool. The EU is and will be our main maritime food export market. Work to ensure adequate conditions for both current and future exports of salmon to the EU and to ensure that the industry is compensated for the deterioration of market access due to the EU enlargement to the east is therefore a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e119	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1794]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e139	Sometimes you want intensely that you didn't get it right. I have had this in relation to the resource situation for the cod in the Barents Sea. I'm not an expert, I'm not able to figure out whether there's enough fish or not, but I understand that this has something to do with fish mortality, recruitment, extracting small fish and something to do. I have understood this so well that I am able to listen to what the researcher says, and base their recommendations on how much I as a responsible politician believe the quota should be. Therefore, in the fall, I had little idea that the cod quota agreement between Norway and Russia was too high, and that this would not lead to a positive reconstruction of the cod stock. Then the sea surveillance in Tromsø last Thursday went out and said that they found little one-, two- and three-year-olds, the researchers had confirmed their predictions. There's a little cod in the Barents Sea. Nordlys reported on 15 December that the sea is full of fish. Kjell Nedreaas of the Marine Research Institute was not surprised, and he says: «We expect that there will be a good deal of cod below the coast of winter. It is mostly screams that are six and seven years old – that is, they belong to the year classes that were born in 1995 and 1996. It is quite young fish that should be given the opportunity to come back later to spawn and thus carry the stock on.» In addition, he says: «The annual classes from 1995 up to and including 1998 can be used and can provide a basis for good fishing, but at the same time these classes of year are to bring the cod population forward. For the last three years, we've had bad gything in Lofoten. The 99-year-old class is only 20 percent of a normal year-old class, the 2000-year-old class is 60 percent and this year we were down to 20 percent again." What do we do with this? SV has long pointed to the lack of openness in the Norwegian-Russian fisheries negotiations. I asked questions in the autumn Question Time if it was not an idea to make the Norwegian negotiating position publicly known. No, it was the answer, and it wasn't old positions either. To Nordlys on 6 November, the Ministerial Council, Jørn Krog, said: «Documents which do not reveal any facts relating to today's negotiations must be made publicly available.» Then I wonder: Has the department evaluated this page in the fall? The research director at the Fridtjof Nansens Institutt said to Dagbladet on 15 November last year: ‘The lack of transparency in Norwegian fisheries management is contrary to international rules Norway has joined.’ Then I'm wondering, and I'm asking the government council to think about this in particular: is there any way that the size can be drawn in in relation to the quota negotiations? Could it be, for example, Would it be interesting to ask the Stortinget for advice, a political council, of course, in advance? And could it be interesting to bring negotiating positions and the part of the protocol that is not public, into the bodies that the Storting actually has to deal with such sensitive information? If there is a misunderstanding between the will of the Storing and the will of the Council of State, it can easily develop into a problem. I mean, we have a problem. When the Storting will do something and the exercise of power, represented by the Council of State, something else, then has a two-way choice: either the Council of State will have to change practice in line with the wishes of the Storing, or he will have to come to the Storing and ask the Storing to change policy, so that there is consistency between the agreed policies of the Storing and the Council of State. I'm wondering what the council thinks about this. Some of the first state councils did after seeing themselves in the Council of State and after shutting down the fish-fucking phone were to give a statement that he was going to follow the advice of the Norwegian Fisheries Team in the quota allocation between the different fleet groups to point and point. I don't think I'm moving a trail was the word the council used. Several in this room have expressed scepticism about the close link between the State administration and the Norwegian Fisheries Team in the fisheries policy. It's not because we don't like Norway's Fish Team, or because we don't like the government or think Norway's Fish Teams have a hopeless policy. It is well with the Fishlayer as it is with other organizations. There's some friends, and there's some unfriends, something makes sense and something's unreasonable. However, the problem with this link is, of course, that those who themselves have financial interests in how a resource is managed should not themselves have access to the management board. If there are only two cows left to sell, the person who is more interested in selling two cows than a cow should not determine the number of cows to be sold. But it is clear that whoever has his livelihood in a business should be able to influence the management of the enterprise. Of course, there is no SV against it. But that reasoning has to follow all the way out. Because it's not just the nutritionists who have an interest in the industry, it's the whole community. And the interests of the businessman and society may be contradictory, for when the boat owner sells the quota, he cares about it, but the built losses. I will, as I am absolutely certain that the Council of State will also do, focus on the profitability and problems of recruitment to the fishing industry. Wages and salaries are one of four objectives of the fisheries policy. Like the others, it's an important goal. Wages and salaries are about the profitability of the trader and the profitability of society. This is, of course, so long as one doesn't think that business is just to get private profit, but also to keep a society alive. Good materialists as we are, should probably be right and SV some about that. But my earlier discussions with the Minister for Fisheries have shown that we are not exactly a few. The last survey of the budget title of the fishing industry from 2000 showed interesting but not surprising figures. It tells us ordinary mortals, who don't understand us in business economics, that their smaller boat is, the more they get the pay grade, the less they get the bank's pay. It also tells us that the largest boats have more indebtedness than they have in gross catch income. It's actually more profitable to invest 500,000 dollars to make 600 000 dollars than it is to invest 10 million dollars. NOK 11 million. kr. Here comes some vaccination training: 50 pst. of the cod is mature when he is seven years old. Six-year-old cod is two and a half pounds. There's two numbers to think about and understand, it shouldn't be that big a challenge. We want the cod to spawn before we catch him. That makes sense. The easiest way to eradicate a tribe is to kill them before they could reproduce. If we don't want to eradicate the tribe, we'll have to wait to kill the grown-ups until they reproduce. The Directorate of Fisheries and the School of Commerce have found out that your bigger fish is, the more you get for him. Eight-year-olds were probably very profitable. From four to eight years the weight on the cod is fivefold. So waiting four years to kill the cod is paying off a lot. Here lies the core of the problem of the resource situation in the Barents Sea. We're going to kill the fish before he's ready to spawn. 80 pst. of the trawler less than 2,5 kg. 80 pst. the fish are caught by trawlers. But 70 pst. of the fish taken out by the coastal fleet in 2000 was more than 2.5 kg. SV is not a poignant party, although it will be claimed in the debate today. We are clear that the coastal fleet should be given priority in the allocation of resources, but we are equally clear that a certain extent of the trawl fleet must have as long as it wants an industry on land, and that is what we want. But that's all. The trawl has its foundation in being a supplement to the coastal fleet. On 17 December, Nordlys wrote that the fishing boat owners in Iceland would like to delay fishing for two years. They have found that it is much more profitable to tax six-year-olds than four-year-olds, who usually do. The fish are bigger, and they get better paid. What do we do in Norway? Nordlys wrote on 11 February that a fillet company in Vardø can only cut the fillet of fish between 0.5 and 2.7 kilograms. The company's daily rent says that the company has adapted to the market, and that it should also be done by the fishermen. Isn't there something that's awfully crazy and terribly little profitable then? The population in the districts is going down. This happens in parallel with the fact that primary industries are missing out on employment, and fewer and fewer people are finding livelihoods in the fish profession. In 2001, there were 778 fewer fishermen in Norway, and for the first time there are now less than 20,000 fishermen in Norway. 10,000 have disappeared in the last 15 years. I don't think either of us should fool ourselves into thinking that we have hokus pokus-proposals for how to improve the recruitment of the fishing industry. But I think the government is looking for the rabbit in error when he is totally concerned with a narrow understanding of profitability as recruitment measures for the fishing profession. Of course, young people ask for comfort and money in the bank when they choose a profession. But if it wasn't so crazy to be coastal fish with a relatively small boat, with a small debt and a large lot, why is it necessary to ban new recruitment to the profession? ‘Youth must purchase fishing rights’, said on the front page of the Vesterålen magazine on 25 January of this year. Is there anything that contributes to the recruitment of the fishing profession? I'm the first to admit that the claims in my interpellation are powerful. I don't even know if there's any use of parliamentary language. The state councils and the bigoting plurality are hardly a few in the claims. Of course. Because if the majority were in agreement, the situation wouldn't be as it is today. I'll justify the claims. The reason why the Storting is powerless in the fisheries policy is that the formulation of fisheries policy takes place through administrative decisions of the Ministry of Fisheries in a number of areas. Some examples: The size does not matter in relation to the quota negotiations with other countries. The size has determined that the general public should be open. The Ministry introduces the closure of different fisheries and more and more restrictions on access. A third example: the size has nothing to say about the distribution of allowances. These are set by the Council of State, although it itself claims to be a blue copy of decisions taken by the Norwegian Fiskerlag. The size has said that one does not want to have negotiable quotas. It happens. The majority want the precautionary principle and the principle of maximum long-term efficiency to be followed when setting quotas. The extraction of Norwegian-Arctic cod can hardly be said to be resilient. Of course, this interpellance has been made because SV is concerned about developments in fisheries and because SV is inconsistent with the proposals made by the Council of State. I look forward to the Council of State now doing its best to see how he thinks it should achieve the objectives of the fisheries policy. Based on the reasoning I've given, it wouldn't surprise anyone that if I and the Council of State had a change of place, our surrounding and most central approach to the fisheries policy would be three things. It would be a greater share of the quota for the coastal fleet. There would be stricter enforcement of the universal service obligations for trawlers, and there would be more openness in fisheries management in general and in quota negotiations in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e207	My ambition is to improve the profitability of all stages of the fishing industry and ensure that recruitment to the industry is ensured by the youth applying for the fishing boat, industry and other actors in Norway’s second largest export industry. My ambition is to facilitate conditions so that the value creation potential estimated to be SEK 150-250 billion can be realised from a 20-30 year perspective. It is likely only imagination that limits the potential, but politicians, organisations and the people of Norway must take on board the fact that the framework conditions must be aligned with tomorrow’s opportunities, not yesterday’s. Since 1990, we have had three major messages that have led the fisheries policy and thus the regulation of fisheries. In St.meld. No 32 for 1990-1991, In the straight line, the objectives of the Norwegian fisheries policy were defined as follows: ‘A sound management of resources and a resource outsourcing ensuring viable populations of the different species are necessary to maximise long-term economic efficiency in the industry and thus also to ensure employment and settlement in the fisheries dependent parts of the country. The Government therefore considers the objective of protecting the resource base to be a particularly important objective.» In St.meld. No 58 for 1991-1992, on structural and regulatory policies for fishing fleets, four equivalent objectives for fisheries policy were defined: the main features of the settlement must be preserved, the resource base must be protected and the overall profitability of the fishing industry must be increased; Further: I St.meld. No 51 for 1997-1998, prospects for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, which is still in force, are defined as follows: ‘The fisheries policy shall facilitate the economic development of the fishing industry. Sustainable resource management is a prerequisite for achieving this. Through market orientation and increased value creation, the industry shall contribute to good employment and coastal settlement.» In the introduction to the perspective notification, it is also pointed out that the Norwegian fishing industry is heavily dependent on its international environment. Most of our fish stocks are migratory populations and are managed jointly with other countries, which requires close cooperation with them on resource management. The cod stock in the Barents Sea is managed by Norway and Russia, Norwegian herring herring herring is managed by Norway, the EU, Russia, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, and the mackerel stock in the north-east Atlantic is managed jointly by Norway, the EU and the Faeroe Islands, as examples. Furthermore, under the Treaty of Law of the Sea, Norway is obliged to manage marine resources in a sustainable manner. In order to ensure sustainable management of resources while safeguarding the interests of the fishing industry, it is necessary to regulate fishing. Fisheries authorities regulate both the participation and the exercise of the fishing activities. Delta regulation is not a strange phenomenon. When regulating participation in fishing, it is desirable to limit the access of new vessels to the fleet. The reason for this is that for each new vessel involved in fishing, the revenue possibilities for the vessels already involved in the fishing activity are reduced. If you have completely open fisheries, there is a risk that there may be so many vessels that there will be so little fish per vessel in a so-called fair distribution. vessel that in principle no one is given the opportunity to operate economically. This problem is exacerbated by the fact that the size of the fish stock varies from year to year. In years of good resource availability, therefore, one could experience new vessels entering the fishing industry or smaller vessels being replaced by larger ones, which can be seen as relatively unproblematic at times, but which, when the stock is reduced again, could adversely affect the profitability of all vessels. An access restriction is therefore introduced to ensure the operational basis for those already active in the fisheries and is thus in the fishermen’s own interests, which in turn provides a basis for profitability, which in my view is the best guarantee for ensuring rural settlement. As regards access restrictions in coastal fleet fishing, I would like to stress that I do not intend to close Group II in cod fishing. A consultation note has been issued proposing to regulate the participation of the fishing for hake and to sail north of 62°N for vessels fishing with conventional gear. The Ministry will also draw up proposals for limiting access to herring fishing south of 62°N, senot fishing for vessels less than 13 metres, fishing south of 62°N and coastal sprat fishing. It is intended that any restriction on access to these fisheries will take effect from 1 January 2003, but, of course, when the consultation opinions are available, I will consider these very carefully. The representative Elvik points out in his question to the decision-making process that the general public should be open. That, I think, needs to be characterised as a somewhat unsound reference to the decision making process, so to speak. A public may not be open. A general government is a regulated system characterised by the fact that some are entitled to use the general government, even if they do not own the land, while others are not. The person entitled to use is entitled, for example: mowing in the forest or using the mountain for grazing, but at the same time an obligation to maintain the forest and plant trees. This is usually regulated by a board of general government. However, all citizens have the right to travel in the forest and pick berries and mushrooms, even if they do not have the right to operate forestry. We therefore need to make a clear distinction between the general public and the universal service. All-human rights are linked to the use of natural goods, even though these goods belong to some others, and have been mentioned primarily in the context of the use of natural goods on land. Therefore, the legal views of all-man rights on land cannot be transferred to fishing without further delay. The sea and fish in the sea are outside the area of normal private property. Fisheries represent the old exploitation of the sea, and have long been a capital-intensive industry, while exploitation of all-man rights on land has not had such a character of capital intervention. I know, for example. to vessels of between 10 and 11 metres fitted with on-board autoline systems. These operate with 7 000 anglers a day. So even small vessels can be very effective. With today's technology level and catch efficiency, therefore, we cannot have free fishing for everyone. It would not be possible to manage resources in a sustainable way. Therefore, the regulation of participation is necessary, whether we like it or not. The regulation of the fish also serves as a distribution tool. The distribution between coastal and sea fishing fleets is a central part of the fisheries regulations. In addition, fishing is periodically undertaken in order to facilitate a smoother access to raw material for the fishing industry. In 2002, cod quotas are allocated by 70.37 pst. to conventional implements and 29,63 pst. to the jets. The representative Elvik claims that the sea fishing fleet has increased its share of the resources at the expense of the coastal fleet. It's with respect to report a description that's also a little unfurnished, to say it like this. During the period 1977 to 2001, the trawler fleet has had a greater share of catches than it has in 2002. The share of cod quotas allocated to the trawl fleet in 2002 is the lowest since 1993. Thus, the share of the cod quotas in the trolls, and hence the share of the sea fishing fleet, has been reduced compared to previous years. As regards the universal service issue, I would like to point out that the previous government set up a ownership committee to assess parts of the participant law and look into the supply terms scheme. I want to look at the assessments and recommendations of the Committee of Ownership to come on 1 July, before drawing any final conclusions as to what we are going to do with the terms of delivery. However, I would like to stress that the terms of delivery are a non-delivery of a district policy instrument. I intend to maintain delivery conditions in some form, but these must be designed in time and so clearly that they can be effectively enforced. The restriction of access to fisheries must safeguard the interests of the most active fishermen. However, it will not prevent less active fishermen from also fishing in the future. The allocation of allowances will give priority to the closed group, while the less active fishermen in the open group will have lower quotas as a natural consequence. The restriction of access to fisheries is otherwise in accordance with the signals given by the industry. However, it is not a proper description to say that the Norwegian Fisheries Team is in control of the fisheries policy. The herring regulation is an example of that. As I pointed out earlier, the fisheries policy must facilitate a profitable development of the fishing industry. Sustainable resource management is a prerequisite for achieving this. Through market orientation and increased value creation, the industry will contribute to good jobs and coastal settlements. This is really central. So if the representative Elvik and I do not agree on the instruments, we should at least be able to agree on the objective. In order to achieve these objectives, I will facilitate the profitable development of the fishing industry by taking account of professional fishermen by offering them voluntary structural and operational arrangements. Access limitation is a prerequisite for the introduction of voluntary structural and operational arrangements. These arrangements shall enable each fisherman to have greater choice in adapting his or her own operations to his or her own wishes, thereby enabling an improvement in profitability. Therefore, during the spring of 2002, the Ministry of Fisheries will also submit a proposal on so-called special quota arrangements to be consulted. The representative, Elvik, in his introduction, initially raised several issues that we have discussed in the Questionnaire during the autumn and winter months. I note that neither the representative Elvik nor the Minister for Fisheries have changed their position on those issues. That's why I'm not going to spend time on it, but the whole article to the representative Elvik is very good that she says yes, both of them, as another Krabat did, without any success either.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e282	I get to thank you for the answer, and especially for the last one. For the whole point of the story with Ole Brumm when he was asked if he wanted milk or honey, is that he says: Yes, thank you, both. But the whole question, which no one thinks to refer, was: Ole Brumm, do you want milk or honey to the bread? Yes, thank you, he says, both, but the bread is not so careful. And then I say: Yes, thanks, both peach trawlers and coastal fleets, but the factory trawlers like to make nails for me! We, too, who are troubling the passageways of this house, must stick to reality. It is true that a decade of boat allowances has not led to a viable resource situation, although it was the basis for introducing it. Really, 10,000 fishermen have left the industry. In itself, I have no problem with that. That people find other work, that people move on, that people find out that there was a lot more fun on the slide than fishing on the eggs, is not a problem. It's okay. But the fact that people are denied fishing for the sake of profitability and productivity for the others is a completely different issue, and it's all but freedom. It is true that there have been changes in the economic and technological framework of the fishing fleet. During the 1990s, major changes have occurred in fleet structures towards fewer and larger units. This has been done for two reasons: many smaller vessels have been decommissioned, while one has had large investments in the sea-going fleet and in large coastal vessels. It is possible that the greatest difference between SV and Right, between the Council of State and me, in this case is that SV believes that politics exists to govern development, and that Right thinks that politics exists to make market forces rule as much as possible. It's possible. We can continue that discussion elsewhere. We agree on the objectives of the fisheries policy. My lawyers and state council lawyers would like to argue about what is the reality of the Storting decision. However, the Storting Group has seen firm objectives for the fisheries policy, and it is up to the Council of State to manage the industry in line with these objectives. Therefore, I would like to repeat my challenges from the main post. First of all, with regard to transparency: is it relevant for the Ministry to consider reforms that could attract more attention from the Storting when it comes to quota negotiations with Russia? Russia is the most important one. Then I would like to remind the council of a statement he gave to the magazine Vesterålen last Friday. He referred to the three-year agreement between Norway and Russia of 395 000 tonnes each year over three years. Then he says, ‘I want to be part of the continuation of the scheme next year, but I realize that we are probably too high in withdrawals now. We will probably have to reduce it when this three-year period is over.’ Then I wonder: Is the Council of State correctly quoted in the magazine Vesteråln that he realizes that the quota withdrawal is too high? And further, if the quota take-off is too high now, why are we going to continue like this until next year when we know that it will contribute to a smaller spawning stock?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e300	I will not try to spend my entire speaking time, so that as much as possible participate in a very important debate. Let me first say that this with priority is difficult, but it won't be better if we push the decision on priorities ahead of us. I note that the representative Elvik now says yes to trawlers, yes to coastal fleets, yes to the same access to fishing. There shall be minimum restrictions, while wanting to cut the quota. That doesn't go up, and if we distribute the resource so thinly that we don't get profitability that makes us secure the recruitment, then that's the safest way to depopulate the coast. It is the fishing industry that is and will be even more so to bear the coast and the kingdom in the future. The potential is enormous, but then we have to be willing to make priorities. Then we must be willing to shape a policy based on the future challenge, whether it be resource, production or export and market access. So this with priorities isn't easy, but I'm willing to do it when I'm also set to do it. With regard to quota fixing, it is true that for the last year and this year, together with the Russians, we have set an annual cod quota of 395 000 tonnes for allocation. Then we have to remind each other that these are negotiations taking place between two countries on the management of a common stock. We do not determine this independently. At the same time, when I have stated that developments show that 395 000 tonnes are in the upper reaches of what we should allow, it is equally clear that we evaluate the stock situation and the quota setting every year. It was added a three-year run, but we are free to set a different quota withdrawal with the Russians. And I remind you that in this year's negotiations, we set up an expert group to work out a decision-making basis. That group of experts is working. So it's the way, as also the representative Elvik said, that the researchers have found little seed in the Barents Sea. Further research will be carried out on the basis of future quota determinations in the Norwegian-Russian cod negotiations. It is a framework condition for the industry that would not make it easier if we were to follow the recommendations of the representative Elvik that everyone should be allowed to participate on an equal basis. This will reduce the income base. It will mean a flight from the fishing industry. And that's not what the industry deserves. It's not the districts that deserve it. That is why I feel absolutely confident that the policy that the majority of the Stortinget and I stand for is what is sustainable in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e313	The interpellant addresses an important and comprehensive theme. It is certainly a fact that not everything in today's fisheries policy is entirely linked, and that lack of totality can be unlucky both for industry and for housing. It is likely that if the basis for one of the four main pillars of the Norwegian fisheries policy falls, the fishing industry may be put back at risk. Fisheries are the basis for a settlement along our coast. And even though we have complementary industries and we have new ones, and what some will call more modern industries, the housing will also have to be based mainly on the primary industries and the value creation these industries provide in the future. Nor should we lose sight of the fact that Norwegian fishing resources are the property of the community, and they must therefore be managed and exploited by the community for the benefit of economic development and housing. For the Workers' Party, the overall objective is to manage fishing resources with a view to long-term and sustainable returns. Therefore, the capacity of the fishing fleet must be proportionate to that of the wild fish stocks in the long term. We are facing major challenges in adapting fishing capacity to sustainable resource management, as the Council of State was aware. We also have to be willing to tax the marine mammals more strongly than what we are doing now if we are to save the resources. It is important that we can also have a differentiated fishing fleet in the future, where there is room for both full-time fishermen and those who have fishing in combination with another industry to create a livelihood. The coastal fleet must in a way be the lifeblood of the Norwegian fishing industry. But I do not want to forget the importance of the sea-going fleet for employment in industry and for districts. However, this means that, as the inter-pellant pointed out, the catches are delivered to installations along the coast, thus allowing a high level of processing and employment to be created in Coastal Norway. Today, there are dangerous signals from viable coastal communities that fishing companies are struggling to survive. Something needs to be done here, and political consensus is needed here. In the fishing industry, a high level of regulation and control is necessary to ensure sustainability, district work, profitability and coastal settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e326	I'm a little surprised, and maybe also a little bit confused, because what is it really the representative Elvik wants to achieve with this interpellation? That the resources that we are so dedicated to managing in a sustainable way are to be subject to enormous overfishing by making the general public open? Think if we could rather spend time discussing the real issues facing the fishing industry today. Four months before the expiry of the existing salmon agreement with the EU, the figures are clear: in 2000 we produced a total of 419 000 tonnes of salmon. In 2001, the figure was reduced by 1.4 pst. At the same time, our competitors can point to a formidable growth in production. The industry has problems accessing its most important market, and then we spend the time of the Minister of Fisheries on an interpellation about a desire that could lead to further overfishing. I would also commend the Minister for Fisheries for his contributions. The Council of State makes it clear that he is very concerned that the fisheries policy should not lead to the exploitation of resources at sea, which would be done by a general public in the direction that the representative, Elvik, would like to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e333	When the interpellant says that the sea fishing fleet increases its share of the catch of resources, and that this goes beyond the coastal fleet, it is directly wrong. The person who experienced and listened to the insurrection in the Norwegian Fisheries Team in the fall when a negotiated result was obtained, realizes that one was just a hairbreadth from the breakup of the organisation. It was the dissatisfaction of the sea fleet that caused the battle that was taking place. Governments have refuted through their figures that the distribution has been 70-30 in the last years, if we round to the nearest 10 years. So there hasn't been any change there. What has happened, and especially with the ring-not vessel, is that we have had a capacity reduction that has made the ring-not-fleet fleet profitable. But then one has had completely hopeless regulation arrangements, where one talks about boats over and under 28 m. It was the State Council of the Center Party that was so good with these metrics. This has led to a capacity building of less than 28 m that is so huge that I do not believe we are aware of it. The boats have been built in width and height, and they have a load capacity that is far, far above what was before. What's happening now is we're going to go down to 21.35 m to get unit quota schemes, so we're going to reduce capacity. If we had done the right thing, we would have gone all the way down to 15 meters. The problem in the Norwegian fishing industry today is that we have far too much fishing capacity in relation to the catch we can take out of the amount of resources in the sea. Then everyone has to be involved in taking a roof and reducing it, first we can get a resilient coughing, first we can get paychecks in the industry that make it perhaps interesting for others to go in, so we get recruiting. SV now says they are not anti-jets. I can't take it seriously. It doesn't help - for me at least - how many times SV says they're not anti-radish. It won't be any more true for that. I think of the representative Marie Lovise Widnes his fight against the jet fleet in the period 1989-93. We also received a reply from the representative, Elvik, that she wanted the trawlers to be nailed. So I just want to say -- I heard the posts of the Council of State and the representative of Arnesen -- that it's important that we take a proper cough when it comes to the marine mammals. Otherwise, there is a question of whether the Norwegian increase must be raised and said that we are forced to sacrifice agriculture on its altar when it is involved in negotiations with the EU on the EEA Agreement in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e351	The marine scientists say that three entire classes of cod are out of the Barents Sea. When the big coals of six- and seven-year-olds we're fishing are gone, there's a lot of evidence that we're facing massive quota cuts in the Barents Sea as far as cod is concerned. At NRK Nordland today, one of the nostrils of Norwegian marine research, Odd Nakken, says that the Norwegian authorities are responsible for the fact that three year classes of codfish are almost away from the Barents Sea. The neck indicates that the fishing pressure in the Barents Sea has been too high over time. This presents us with great challenges. In the same period as we've been fishing down the stock, we've also invested in larger vessels, with higher indebtedness than we've been before. The high debt burden and capital return requirements create enormous fishing pressures. People don't have the flexibility to tackle a bad year or two to build up the fish stock, without the bank taking both the boat, the quota and the house. It comes from a faltered fisheries policy, led by the Workers' Party and the Right, which has deprived the coastal population of the right to marine resources and transferred them to a few who have had a monopoly on fishing along our coast. This privatisation of the general public has helped to maintain an irresponsible high fishing pressure. No one has to dare not fish for full every year, of fear of losing the court later. This fishing pressure is not only serious for the population but also exposes fishermen with the smallest boats to great uncertainty. When they were really supposed to be on land, they have to go out to the sea. The only way to solve these problems is to get to the basics. On the SV side, we believe that ownership of coastal fishing should lie in the community and be disposed of by the local population in regional cooperation. Not that it should be free to fish as much as the Minister for Fisheries claims that SV wants, but the point is that the right to be involved in fishing should be there for all the local population. In recent times, we have seen that quotas and fishing rights have been sold from the north to the south of the country. Privatisation of fishing rights helps to change the geographical centre of gravity of fisheries in the country. This destroys coastal communities, while an ever smaller share of the quota accumulates large assets. These assets are being accumulated on ever fewer hands in Norway. This accumulation of resource control, and the judgment in Halogaland, the right of teammen against the shipowner's layer Outer Town, where the concession value is released from the boat, goes in only one direction. The right to fish is becoming a security in line with any share. Then it is only a matter of time before ESA is on the plate and requires those securities to be freely traded throughout the EEA territory. We don't have to sit in a situation where we have to use the oil fortune to buy back the fishing rights in order to have fishing off our coast. We're at a crossroads. We can take the road to the right, towards the privatisation of the Norwegian coastal community, or we can take the road to the left, towards local resource control, a richer coastal community, where high-quality fish are taken on land that achieves good market prices. This choice we have to make now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e377	In the long term, there is no contradiction in the fisheries policy between the objective of profitability and the objective of sustainable use of resources. With today's technology, any universal right at sea, in the context of nutrition, could quickly lead to the depletion of resources. The consequence will be what we call the tragedy of the general public, that is, everyone thinks about their own business, and that no one takes responsibility for holding down the total resource outsourcing. Unfortunately, there are examples of stocks being fished all the way down, but it is an important objective of Norwegian fisheries policy that this should not happen in the future. And then regulation is necessary. The importance of profitability in industry and in resource availability means that there must be an overall assessment of the number of vessels to which they can discharge. In order to create stable and prudent conditions, we also need to think ahead. We can't let many of that in one year if there's no space for so many vessels in the long term. However, in order not to create any doubt, the fishing fleet shall continue to exist through the regulation of group 2 fishing. The oceanic industry is also important, and there should be no doubt about it. The Minister for Fisheries has taken care of resource access and the economy of the ships in earnest, and he has therefore taken initiative on regulations that we can apply if resource access makes it necessary. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to combine the care of a fishing grounds fleet with a temporal ownership structure. The co-operation management will assess the setting of the government-emergent Ownership Selection based on its industry’s need for fleet renewal, external capital and capacity adjustment, as well as the country’s needs for a stable raw material situation. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to maintain the raw fish laws as a basis for fisheries policy. Some adjustments may be needed. The Raw Fish Act allows for a form of cooperation that provides wages for those who participate in the salads, but it is also a good tool in the resource management context because it helps us to keep running control of how much resources are being taken out of the sea. It is important that the allocation of allowances between different groups of vessels is optimised. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of increasing free trade in fish products in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. Since the representative Lodve Solholm mentions here that he thinks we're going to sacrifice a part of the agriculture to get more access to fish, I'm not going to be willing to put the two things up against each other. We can also have a long debate on agricultural policy, but we will not be able to do so at this time. But it has to be possible to have two thoughts in your head at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e401	There are important questions the interpellant addresses. And it's probably a little simple for the Council of State to dismiss the interpellant by saying yes to both sides, because it actually also makes the Minister of Fisheries seams. He also reiterates the objectives of the Storting that the coastal fleet should be the backbone of the fishing industry and along the coast. We all use the fine words about the coastal fleet. The question is what content do we put in them? I have often missed a debate on the opportunities that can lie in coastal fishing and the coastal fleet in the years to come, precisely because we should not create pessimism linked to an industry that is so important for employment and rural policy in Norway, but can contribute both to the belief in the future and to recruitment – and to strong and important coastal fishing. It is clear that there are interests that need to be balanced over the years to come. The announcements that several classes of fish may be eradicated give rise to concern. It is a question that Stortinget has also been concerned about earlier in this session, and that we have had quite strong opinions and reasonings about. I think it is important to stress that the resource situation that you can get in the years to come will not be better if you catch more and more small fish. There won't be any session stocks of it. And one does not provide the basis for an increased value creation potential if one allows more and more trawlers to catch small fish that are below what we consider to be sustainable. We repeat that coastal fleets are of great importance in terms of employment, resource management, value creation and coastal settlement. We're all using these words. The question is, what do we do? I think there are many within this fleet group who still remember what happened at the end of the 1980s, and who feel that they were deprived of some historical rights from that time. In 1991, this fleet was left with over 14 pst. of the Norwegian total quota. Today the share has fallen to 7 pst. It is therefore not surprising that they are concerned with the question of closure of the general public, that they are concerned with the circumstances of Group 2, to which many of them feel moved, and that they are concerned with what expectations and opportunities the Minister for Fisheries sees in relation to what they are doing. It's hard to figure out what the government will. On the one hand, one maintains the objective that coastal fishing is the backbone, but at the same time signals that it is the big ones that must be given priority and that we must have a structural change. Many people read this as if it were the smallest ones that had to be squeezed out. One does not take a stand for ever more catching small fish and for the unfortunate sustainable and value-creating nature of it, nor does one take a stand for the criticism of Group 2’s conditions in cod fishing, which has also been acknowledged by the Fishlayer as a bias. Finally, I just want to say, I think it's good to have such an interpellant debate. It has been far too short, and I would urge the Government to present its own fisheries report, so that we have a broader debate on the structure of the fisheries industry in the future – because it is a debate that is important for the entire political environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e420	I want to grab hold of two themes. One concerns resource management and the other concerns recruitment. One thing that worries me is the composition of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. The fact that we have a fishing commission that is composed of the industry seam, I think is wrong. I believe that we should have had far more political control of the quota withdrawal that we choose to have, and not that the industry should have both hands on the steering wheel in a way when it comes to determining how much fish you want to take out every year. We know that a lot of people in the industry are in debt. They have invested heavily in the fishing fleet – in large, expensive trawlers – and depend on a certain outlet for the shop to jump in a year. I think the quotas that are set are more marked than the recommendations that come from researchers and other trade unions. For this reason, I hope that the Minister for Fisheries will assess whether, as the representative of Elvik was involved, he can raise more questions about how much of this resource we should actually take out each year. The other thing I want to record is recruitment. We're dedicated to maintaining the settlement along the coast. We are concerned that coastal youth should have work. When SV is fighting for coastal fleets and coastal fishing, it is precisely because we want to get more — more jobs — out of this resource that we have along the coast. It is a question of whether there should be capital or whether one wants work to be the dominant in fisheries matters. We believe that more emphasis should be placed on labour – getting more young people, more labour, into fisheries – and less emphasis on the large, heavy sea-going trawls, which bind up a lot of capital, and which are relatively low in labour intensity. This does not mean that we believe that everyone who wants to fish should be fishing, but that we should facilitate the possibility for many more people to join in the struggle to get involved in some of the resources. For me, who comes from rural areas, it is a bit incomprehensible that we should go far at sea – when the fish gradually come into land anyway. It's almost as if we who run sheep in the countryside were going to go uphill and start hunting the sheep with the helicopter – when we know they're coming home to the fall low. We can take care of them then, without spending so much resources on it. Trawl nutrition reminds me a little bit about it. You go out and get the fish – and spend a lot of resources on it – sail if the fish come in to the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e431	This was almost fun at last! I thank you for a good debate with both colleagues and the Council of State. It is an important debate. But I'm a little afraid it was like any other debate. There were a lot of nice words and a little bit of concrete – unfortunately. I agree – and I say I am sorry if I have spoken a little clumsy – that it is pointless to argue about meters when the hijackers are as effective as they are today. The passive cruisers that the coastal population has traditionally used, think they should be allowed to use freely. But, of course, the concern for bearer power is superior. If you have a total quota of 50,000 tonnes, you're saying that you can't take that one. And it's not the smallest ones that have fished the sea empty for cod. We must be aware of that. Taking the right to fish from the fishermen is like taking the land from the farmers. It's a real equation. The only difference is that the right to fish traditionally has no private right, it has been a public right, which the Minister for Fisheries had in mind. It has been a right for the coastal people in common. Unfortunately, the fishermen don't have any skates to point to, as the farmers have had on their property. The fish and the right to use the fish have not been privatised. But that's what's happened in the last ten years; the right to fish has become private property. This is going in the wrong direction. I am forced for the third time to repeat my call to the Council of State to reflect on a problem. Does the Ministry consider any measures to draw the Stortinge to a greater extent in relation to the fisheries negotiations? It could be to inform the Storting's own body about the negotiating positions to be held for the current negotiations, or it could be to inform the Storting about how it has progressed with previous negotiations. I wonder if the department sees the value of Stortinget being drawn into this work. Is it e.g. Interestingly, the Stortinge comes with advice in relation to what negotiating position Norway should take? I thought I'd be so original that I'd end up with a quote from a leader's article in the Northern Lights last year. They have a lead writer writing: ‘The approach to better fisheries management does not go through the fishing fleet alone. Not through the commercial interests and all those who depend on making money, almost at any cost. It runs through an independent fisheries management, based on research and knowledge, willing to engage in confrontations with the industry in the fight for life in the sea.» One might say that this is something unexpected, both crunched and lyrical, to be taken from a leader's article in a very general A-presseavis. But that's true. This is about the fight for life in the sea, and it is about the fight for life in the sea to remain the basis of coastal settlement. In that fight, I would like to join with the leader writers of North Light, if necessary, I agree with environmental organisations, spokesmen, fractions of the Norwegian Fisheries Team, and I hope to be able to influence the Minister of Fisheries to be an ally in that fight. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e451	I believe that the representative Elvik underestimates the Stortinget and the importance of such debates in shaping future policies. As Minister of Fisheries, I am concerned both to listen to the debate and to seek agreed solutions when it serves the industry. That's why I'm almost sad, after 12 years in this house, to hear a big representative say about Stortinget that it's reduced to a hearing board just to contribute rhetoric and fine words. I don't see such debates as this. I am asked if I will publish negotiating strategies in future negotiations with Russia in order to distribute the resources. To that I have replied in this room earlier that it does not come up with a speech. No country participating in international negotiations will deliver its positions ahead of them, because that is the safest way to lose. So I strongly warn you that we're going to stick to that strategy. It would only harm Norwegian interests and thus Norwegian fishing industry. Then I very much agree with the representative Arnstad who says that now we have to be careful so we don't talk into a depression and a crisis that's not there. This is one of the most viable industries, and then I'm almost surprised and saddened that the representative Lena Jensen is standing on the Grottinget Chair and talking about putting the coast to waste. My question is, where is this coast destroyed? And when it is linked to the sea fishing fleet, where is the sea fishing fleet destroyed? That's not how it looks on the coast I've been traveling on for years. The importance of the sea fishing fleet is not underestimated. But as I have said, it is important for us now to put a quota allocation between sea fishing and the coastal fleet that is stable and predictable, and we have decided to give priority to the coastal fleet. I have also prioritised the coastal fleet and the small vessels when I have this year lifted the activity requirement that the coastal fishermen no longer have to go out to sea when it's bad weather; they will nevertheless be guaranteed their rights. That is why I have also introduced combined quotas which allow fishermen to have their home as the basis for their fishing activities to a greater extent than in the past. I agree that marine mammals must enter an ecosystem management, because it is clearly a threat that one third of the whale population today eats 75 pst. of the herring quotas. When Nakken criticizes the politicians, as he says is responsible for the situation in the Barents Sea, I have to remember that a little bit of what we're struggling with is based on the fact that knowledge is not sufficient. And the researchers probably have to take inwards that they were very optimistic — to put it that way — when they overestimated the cod population in the 1990s. I agree with Mr Arnesen that much is not related to Norwegian fisheries policy, but in that case there must be many governments responsible for it. But it's important that things are connected, and they'll do that when I just get a little bit more time. That's why I'm working on the things I'm working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e468	That being the case, it is no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e479	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e486	During the debate, Mr Meltveit Kleppa put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, the eleventh sentence of the sixth paragraph of Section 21 shall be replaced by the following: ‘However, the Presidency may agree that there may also be an open hearing even if there is a meeting of the Grand Duchy or departments where there are particular reasons to do so.’;» After the President has understood this, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e526	The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e539	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e546	During the debate, Mr Sandberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for Norway to follow up the EU action plan on increased mobility of workers and the EU's job opportunities information campaign within the EU.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider whether Norway should seek to follow up the EU action plan on a common immigration policy.’ Mr Nilsen has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e561	The debate made it clear to the Right that if these proposals were maintained, we would vote against them. We then invited the Progress Party to turn the proposals into a transmission proposal. So if they are maintained, the Right will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e566	The President has not understood that the representative, Mr Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, wanted to make the proposals for transmission proposals. That is why we are going to vote on the proposals. It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e578	The President will propose that the Foreign Affairs Minister's statement at the Stortinget meeting on 26 February be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e589	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to implement a share issue that provides the necessary risk capital by increasing private ownership participation in Moxy Trucks AS.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-28-2.ana.ud21e618	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
