ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e45	The representatives of Kjell Engebretsen, Ola D. Glötvold, Ingmar Liones and Thore A. Nistad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The former temporarily exempted alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Rigmor Andersen Eide, has again taken up their seats. The called alternate of the More and Romsdal counties, Ola T. Heggem, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative of Anita Apelthun Säle from 12 November onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Hans R. Kjestad from 12 November onwards and until further notice from the representative Rolf Terje Klungland on welfare leave from 12 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the West Agder County: Mette Gundersen For the Hordaland County: Pål Kårbø For Oslo: Brit I. H. Andreassen3. Mette Gundersen and Brit I. H. Andreassen is elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Rolf Terje Klungland and Hans R. Kjæstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e111	Mette Gundersen, Pål Kårbø and Brit I. H. Andreassen is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e119	The representative, Jan Koløy, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e122	I allow myself, on behalf of Carl I. Hagen, Per Sandberg and myself, to propose a transfer of the negotiating responsibility for the teaching staff from the state to the county/municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e127	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e141	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the President of the Grand Duchy, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 399]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e170	I understand that it may be unpleasant by a specific decision to have to decide on their own salary. Normally, wage-fixing in this society takes place through negotiations, either between individual workers and employers or through organisational life. For Storting, however, the situation is completely different. Because the Storting is the country's top political authority and also the granting authority, the responsibility for determining the salary of the magistrates, state councils or prime minister cannot be delegated to anyone. In order to avoid having an annual discussion on wage regulation, a salary commission was set up in 1996 and was given the task of presenting proposals to the Stortingen on the remuneration of gross domestic product representatives, state councils and prime minister. But you actually went a little bit further. It was said that the annual remuneration is to be determined by the Grand Duchy's Wage Commission with the consent of the Grand Duchy. That means that the Presidency has only one task in this, and that is to be the proposal maker for the Storting on behalf of the payroll commission. And of course, it'll be up to Stortinget if you want to join the position you get from the payroll commission. That means that the presidency does not go into any real discussion about what the payroll commission proposes. This would be contrary to the decision taken by the Stortinget on the method of setting salaries in the Stortinget. However, the Commission has received a mandate from the Stortinget through the Presidency of the United Kingdom. This mandate is aimed at ensuring that depositors, state councils and prime ministers have wage developments comparable to those in other professions in this country. Then, of course, there is political opportunity for some to compare with those who have the lowest wage developments, while it is opportune for others to compare with those who have the highest wage developments. I think there is reason to commend the payroll commission for the assessments it has made in the years it has promoted attitudes about wage developments for the Stortinget. Of course, government representatives, state councils and prime ministers should not be wage-leaving or wage-earners, but those who hold some of the country's most important positions must have a salary that allows you to be recruited to the various positions. At the same time, they have to be able to carry out their mission in a good way and then pay. I recommend, on behalf of the Presidentship of the Stortinge, that you join the position given by the Grand Stortinge payroll commission. So I would like to say that if the social partners together with the government were to have to limit wage developments, take specific initiatives or give specific signals in relation to wage developments and see it in the context of price development, industrial development and employment opportunities, then the time will be ripe for the Presidency to formulate some assumptions for the Wage Commission before the Commission deals with this. But that might have to happen in advance. If the Storting were to make a decision today against the Wage Commission, it is a decision that not only sets a salary different from that proposed by the Wage Commission but in reality also abolishes the whole pay commission scheme. Then I want to say something about the proposals on the pension scheme. It has been many years since the Storting decided on the pension scheme in force today. It is probably none of the current wholesale representatives who were at the time of the decision. Because the big business in particular is not comparable to any other occupations in this country, it was decided that the big business representatives should have a vesting period of 12 years, but that the pension could not be paid before age and the time spent in Stortinget was 75 years. So it sounds from time to time as if this is the case – and some argue with this – that when the staging representatives have been poaching representatives for 12 years, they can take out full pension. It's not like that. It's not like people who come in here when they're young, like they're sitting and waiting for them to take out a pension after they're done in the Storting. You're an active man! Most representatives in this house have, like everyone else in this country, a vesting period in different pension schemes of between 35 and 45 years. Therefore, there is no unfairness in the relationship between the benefit system and the system for when you can get the pension paid. However, what is quite specific and especially for the salaries of the representatives of the population is that it is regulated in size according to the wage developments in the Stortinget, not as for many others, following a wage trend determined after negotiations between the pensioners’ organisations and the state, to which the Stortinget finally joins. There have been repeated proposals in the UK to change this practice, and the Presidency has been asked to make an assessment. The last time the Presidency made such an assessment, there were conversations with the team leaders in Stortinget. The conclusion was that there was no basis for making these assessments of changes now. And I have to say that nothing has happened that makes the presidency feel the need to take any new initiative. However, we have set up a pension commission in this country as if in some time we will be tabling a proposal that will give us a broad discussion about the pension conditions and information about the many different pension schemes that apply around the world of work. For my part, I think it would be natural that the Storting at that time also carry out a review and a valuation of the pension scheme applicable to the Storting, and that at that time, after a discussion, it should be determined how it should be for the future. If you want to do so today, there is no other background to making these assessments than the information or information that has been available in the last decade – once you have constantly raised this proposal in Stortinget, and it has been rejected. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that a similar proposal, such as the proposal by the Central Party, which is currently being put to the seats of the representatives, was voted down last night for consideration: last year. I recommend the presidency's position on wages and salaries, and also recommend that the Storting go against the proposals of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre on pension system assessments, but signals that the right time to take this up to a general discussion will be when we have the information, the assessments, that will come into the position of the pension commission, both in relation to current and future pension schemes. So just briefly about the attitude of the Presidentship of the Grand Duchy in terms of salary for the members of the Supreme Court. As you will see from the setting, we suggest an increase for Supreme Court of 6.8 pst. It is factually justified. The workload of the members of the Supreme Court has increased significantly over recent years. Of course, this development is related to the scope of the cases brought before the Supreme Court, but it is also related to the new requirements of the Supreme Court when assessing cases, among others. After the incorporation of human rights into Norwegian law and the development of the international legal community, which means that, through its treatments, the Supreme Court has to have a significantly broader perspective when making its assessments than it had before, which obviously increases the workload. The Presidency has therefore proposed a slightly higher adjustment for the members of the Supreme Court than the increase for the judiciary. This is related to the fact that when a percentage adjustment is made annually, there will eventually be an excessive gap between the Supreme Justice and the Supreme Court, and that has been found by the Presidency this year to reduce something. With this, I present the presidency's position in these two cases, and hope that the Storting can join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e204	In isolation, it's the remuneration of the big business representatives and the members of the government we're going to deal with today. But this year, as last year and in the past, SV will see the salary and pension schemes as a whole. We're going to vote against salary increases, but the most important thing for SV is to clean up pension conditions, pension conditions that we see as very lucrative, almost unreasonably lucrative. Why? Well, because we believe that the down payment is quite a contrast to the pension schemes that ordinary employees have. And when we compare our pension schemes with the usual employee schemes, it's because our schemes have to be seen as reasonable among those that we're going to represent. And it's not fair – in our opinion – that we should have other and better pension schemes than what we decide for others to have. What is so unfair about pension schemes? Firstly, while most people's pensions are linked to the basic amount, they have full pension of 66 pst. of the current gross wage at all times, as the President-in-Office of the Council also stated. It is this assembly that regulates the basic amount, which is the basis for most people's pensions. The basic amount has been under-regulated for many years, and it is this majority, who will not specify the basic amount, who are now proposing wage increases that increase pensioners get far greater pension increases than do ordinary people. In other words, with these wage increases, the gap between the contribution pensions and the pensions of ordinary employees will increase. We are concerned with this underregulation of the basic amount. It is the person who causes many – and among them the majority of women – to become minimum pensioners and strives to make everyday life go on. Then our question is: when the Stortinget believes that representatives deserve good arrangements, how can the majority of people think that many others should have bad arrangements? Secondly, while most people have a full pension income of 40 years, they have 12 years. This rule is a lot of good reasons to think about, at least we want it to be evaluated. Thirdly – and that is perhaps the most unfair rule: here we have the 75th anniversary rule that allows a representative to start at 27 years of age, have his 24 years of age at Thinget and then drop full retirement at 51 years of age. It usually won't do that to this big business representative. But what happens? Well, the rules are that if he or she takes on a job — not as a normal employee in ordinary employment — he or she can earn exactly as much as the pension paid out represents, and the pension is not curtailed, as it becomes too many others. This is what we now believe it has to be cleaned up. It is true that we have raised these proposals many times, and when I hear the Grand President, I get some hope. I think it's useful. When he starts problemating just this pension and says that we have to wait until the pension commission comes up with their proposals, I get a little hope that the arguments go in. But we believe that here and now we have a maritime responsibility to do something about it. So for the pay increases, we're in line with the proposed increases because we want to see pay and pensions together. Neither gamblers' representatives nor government members shall be low-wage – it is totally seaworthy. But neither are we. Wage should reflect that we're elected to the people, and we're doing an important job. The opposite is that we have to compare ourselves with leaders, and that wages must be such that policies can also be recruited from the private sector. First of all, it's saying that we're elected by people. We're ombudsmen. We're not going to be high-paid leaders. So to the recruitment argument, it's important to have a broad recruitment. That's absolutely right. But there I lean a little on what NHO's Finn Langeland said to the VG last year, that the salary of the depositors now is about a manager of an enterprise with an average of 5 to 50 employees. Therefore, wages should not be an obstacle to recruitment, nor from business leaders. In addition, politicians shall be recruited on the basis of commitment and not on the basis of high wages. I do not see that there are any problems with recruiting. People are waiting in line both to get into government and into big business. Then we'll be met with the argument that there's a payroll commission set up. SV was against this payroll commission. We warned against the depoliticisation of the decisions of the Great Britain to the seventh and last. We think that's what's going on. The majority of adults hide behind the Commission's skirts, raise their hands in the weather and say they can't do anything. It is therefore permissible to use reason, especially when the moderators of the large employee groups are both loud and strong. We believe that elected representatives should take the lead with a good example. I refer to the proposal in the vote, and at the same time I would like to say that we want a vote to enable us to vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e236	The representative, Valle, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e239	What this matter concerns is the determination of the salary of the representatives of the depositors. I would like to remind you that this is a pay-as-you-go decision for the 2002 big city representatives. With that background, the payroll commission also has an attitude that makes us rather moderate when it comes to wage increases – at least as a percentage of what other groups get. When the payroll representatives increase by 4.8 pst, it's actually below what was achieved in the pension stoppage. I agree with the President-in-Office when he says that if the parties to the working life together with the government would have to take a roof to get the wage and price increase down, the deposit representatives will of course have to be involved in the process. So I want to grab hold of this with the so-called 66 pst. order. After all, everyone in public has 66 pst. arrangements. The problem is that a lot of people have been tricked. I as a principal, or as a teacher, also have an arrangement of 66 pst. of the pay step I have when I leave. Where one might feel a little disappointed, the school manager was in step 50 when I, e.g., ended, and in ten years she may have come up in step 70 – while my pension is then calculated in relation to step 50. Then you can discuss whether it is an arrangement! But it's a system that publicizes. And the statistics show that in this house there are quite a number of additives that come from the public, and so it has something to do with the recruitment problem as well. Well, it's a fact that this house doesn't fully reflect our social life, and that we might have wanted to recruit from a number of professional groups from which we don't have recruitment – from people who don't find it profitable to enter here because the pay ratios are too poor. But I also see clearly that there is a balance here. Wages for the representatives of the population should not be the driving force for political engagement and want to go in and take a political roof, a job, for some years. But at the same time, it has to be so that most people, perhaps after an active life, can look for advice to take a hold on social governance. This is a balance that I don't have exactly the answer to. But we can compare ourselves to other parliamentarians in the Nordic countries, and at least our wages are not high. I can see that the Swedish President, who is our corresponding Grand President, has the same salary as the Prime Minister, up to 1.5 million. Swedish kr. Just to put it in relief, we have in this house a president who has the same salary as the rest of the big ones. Maybe it should be a cross of thought. When it comes to the payroll commission, I think it would have been a lot more real of an SV to suggest that we shut down the payroll commission. One has now received a majority decision in this house to set up a pay commission which, on the basis of a mandate, actually established the salary, as the prime minister correctly mentioned, but after Grundlova's announcement that this house is the running authority, we have to take the formal decision. So I thought it would be much better and more real by SV to put forward a proposal to cancel the payroll commission scheme instead of just voting against a payroll commission that was assigned by the Stortingen to set the payroll of the payroll representatives. I can also learn that the payroll commission proposed zero a year, and no one protested at that time. So we should follow what's the right order. Therefore, with the same argument as the president had when it comes to the new submission from the Central Party, I just want to point out that we have a pension commission to work on the matter. We want to see it as natural that one in that context also assesses the pension scheme for the depositors and the government when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e259	The Central Party is not represented in the Presidency. So our opinion when it comes to the attitude of the payroll commission, it's not going to be expressed. Let me start by saying that we support what the Presidency here says. But then we take up again our proposal from last year on a review of the pension schemes for large-scale representatives and state councils. We see wages and pensions in context, and this is also the case. Let me point to three things that we think should be considered. It's the level, the ignition time and the ratio that is today to have other revenues without curtailment of the pension. First of all, it is a fact that while the pension in 1996 was NOK 195 000, in six to seven years now he will have approached the double. The ignition period is 12 years; for very many others, it is 40 years. The capital of other incomes is very loud, compared in particular to the fact that in recent years the Stortinget has been less liberal than other pensioners when it comes to supplementary income and curtailment of the pension. It has been said that the wage and pension conditions of other parliamentarians, including in our Nordic countries, are much more liberal. Yes, let's also get it out in such a review. I found it interesting and uplifting that both the President and Lodve Solholm pointed out the payroll commission and the work that goes there. Our proposal is a condition for the Presidency to be prepared in relation to the proposals that may come from the pension commission. Last year there were several who said in connection with our proposal that they had had too little time to evaluate it, it had not been distributed in time, etc. So this year, there's a doctor out there, so people have been able to discuss it more closely. I hope we get a little bit more excitement about this proposal. I'm dealing with the proposal, which is divided into two parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e272	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[Fotation, see page 400]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e290	The long-term objective of work in the field of chemicals is known as not to cause health damage or damage to the ability of nature to produce and to self-renewal, emissions and use of chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment. It is an overall committee that emphasises that the control of chemicals that are hazardous to health and the environment is a crucial tool in achieving this objective. The Committee notes that the Riksrevisions question whether, during the period under review, there has been a satisfactory emphasis on the follow-up of breaches of the rules as an instrument for ensuring compliance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions adopted. At the same time, the Committee also welcomes the efforts of the SFTs and the Agriculture Committee to strengthen the follow-up to serious breaches of the rules. I feel confident that I also have an overall committee with me when I say that these signals that the Riksrevision criticism is being taken seriously are essential so that no stronger expressions are drawn from the committee. It is serious when the National Audit Office finds that, for the period under investigation, offences are not reported to a large extent. The basic material suggests, inter alia, that: having regard to the fact that, on the part of the supervisory authorities, it has been found that the prosecution authority has not followed up enough notifications. There is now work to improve the situation. The Committee also calls for the departments to keep Stortinget properly informed on developments in the follow-up to infringements. The Committee would also stress the importance of coordinated action by the Ministry of Chemicals and the supervisory services in the field of chemicals, and notes with satisfaction the agreement now being reached to establish a dedicated cooperation forum in this field. Of course, it is a very demanding task to keep a good enough overview of emissions of relevant health and environmental hazardous chemicals — it is almost like some sort of sisyphos work to be calculated as soon as chemicals are found in these days. At the same time, the Committee considers it to be a matter of concern to the Riksrevision in Document No. 3:9 states that questions can be asked in the SFT reporting on target achievement related to health and environmental hazardous chemicals. This reporting will next provide the basis for the policy priorities of this important work. The Committee therefore expects and also underlines the importance of an assessment by the Ministry of the Environment of any technical uncertainty related to the so-called chemical indicator of its future submissions to the Stortinge in this area. In relation to the Labour Inspectorate, the National Audit Office addresses several important issues. A combined evaluation and development project related to the organisation and activities of the Labour Inspectorate is now under way. The Committee asks that the results of the Riksrevision study should also be affected if the results of the development project are presented to the Stortinget. The Committee considers that the follow-up to the obligation to replace dangerous substances unless dangerous substances in the Working Environment Act § 11.1 second paragraph of the last paragraph, the so-called substitution obligation, may have an incidental effect. Clear procedures must be established here if this has not already been done. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to wish the Council of State success in the further work in this area. It is good to see that you are already doing something about several of the important problems that the Riksrevision has addressed. There's probably still a part that's left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e307	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 400]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e315	We're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e403	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Group, have tabled a motion for a resolution (Doc. 2, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Presidency to take the initiative to make changes to the plans of the depositors and the members of the government so that they are more consistent with common pension rules, inter alia, so that annual regulation of the pension follows the basic amount of the pension. The vesting time and the ‘75-yearly rule’ must be considered in this context.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-11-12.ana.ud877e427	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Presidency to conduct a review of the plans for depositors and government members with a view to greater consistency with more common pension schemes.’ The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary aid.
