ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e28	This is a proposal from four representatives of the Workers' Party who wish to change the final treatment charge for waste used for energy recovery. The final treatment fee is a charge that is paid when delivering waste. It is constructed in such a way that you have a basic charge of 80 kroner, and then you have 240 kroner on top of this – depending on the degree of combustion. It was introduced on 1 January 1999 as a result of the work of the Green Tax Commission and intends to stimulate waste disposal and re-use. The majority of the Committee sees that the current charging system may have weaknesses, but emphasises that the objective of the charging system is to stimulate waste minimisation, reduction of environmentally harmful emissions, reuse and recycling, and that no change in the fee is desired at present, even if it is seen that this fee may have weaknesses. The Ministry has also announced that a work is in progress, and the matter will be brought before the Stortinget in connection with the 2003 State Budget. This is in agreement with the majority of the Committee and underlines that the purpose of the levy is fixed, but if it can be made even more precise, the majority of the Committee agrees. The majority of the Committee shall be composed of SV, the Central Party and the Government Parties. I assume that the minority of the committee, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, will justify their position. However, it has been decided not to present divergent proposals in the vote, so that all of them support the inclusion of this protocol. This will be a matter to which the Storting will return in the ordinary budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e41	The approach shows that there is broad agreement on the role of the end-treatment levy in waste policy. There is also agreement that it can be made more accurate than it is today. The disagreement really boils down to when to consider the changes that are needed. So the majority, as the previous speaker pointed out, will await the government's further investigation and proposals in the government budget for the autumn. The majority say in the setting that they do not support "a change of charge now". For the sake of order, let me underline that Document No. 8:68 Nor does it intend to make a change now, but to ask the government to add an end-of-treatment fee without a land tax and that the additional charge be reduced in connection with the draft budget for the autumn. Although this is not a matter that threatens neither the budgetary balance nor, I think, the Minister of Finance's night sleep, it's good to point it out in the light of the debate we've had in the last few days on decisions that the Stortinget has taken, and for which it may not be as enthusiastic in the Government. On the part of the Labour Party, we believe that it would be useful to clarify what changes are already coming. There are several energy recovery facilities under planning and where clarification of economic conditions would be useful. But we accept that there is no majority in favour of it, and we will therefore support the proposal that is in place. I would also like to stress that the purpose of a conversion in line with the proposal is not, of course, to undermine either waste minimisation, recycling or reuse. We must not overlook that it is not just the economic incentives that govern the waste streams. Energy recovery facilities are operated on the basis of a concession, where the concession provisions also determine what it is that can be put into the ovens. We must also bear in mind that energy recovery of waste is equivalent to material recovery, and that energy recovery in many places is very beneficial for the environment, where energy is used in district heating plants and replaces oil. It reduces both greenhouse gas emissions and localised emissions. I would also like to point out what the Committee is all about, as well as the other thing that is largely agreed on, namely that the waste management system — the incentive system — should put in place instruments to help implement measures to reduce methane emissions at existing landfills while at the same time extracting energy. I expect the government in its work on this matter to also take with it and consider the proposal we are considering today, even though the majority are not prepared to support it today. There are many outside this hall who want such a change, among other things. in the process industry. Indeed, they see that the exemption from taxation for industrial waste incineration plants could be at risk in line with the competition rules of the EEA Agreement and that a system providing an exemption for municipal installations with a sufficient energy efficiency could be a good solution to overcome that threat. I expect the Government to also assess these aspects of this matter when it concludes, and come back to Stortinget in connection with the consideration of the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e63	The Workers' Party has proposed to remove the basic charge for combustion plants. This proposal will significantly increase the cost of incineration and reduce the potential for waste reduction, reuse and recovery. In his letter to the Committee, the Minister for Finance stated: ‘Any removal of the land charge would result in an average charge for combustion plants representing about 20 pst. of the original charge of NOK 320. ... A charge designed as proposed by the representatives will be much lower than the environmental cost of incineration of waste and will weaken the motive of the levy for waste reduction and material recovery.» The Left and the majority of the Committee therefore oppose the proposal of the Labour Party. We agree that today's system has weaknesses, but it is very central that the charging system is precisely stimulating waste minimisation, reduction of environmentally harmful emissions, reuse and recycling. If the fees are changed to make it easier to burn waste, it will be significantly more difficult to achieve all these objectives. The left considers that re-use should remain the primary, while combustion must be the secondary option. Reusable resources are required. Waste has a greater value than raw material for new production than as an energy source. The left is pleased that a clear majority of the parties on the Stortinget are behind this. It is illustrative that it is only the Progress Party that supports the Workers' Party's proposal. I think the environment in this country is very happy that the two parties no longer have a majority. The government has announced that concrete proposals should be made to improve the design of the 2003 government budget’s final treatment levy, so that the levy can be made more accurate. The left considers that we should wait to make changes to the fee for such proposals available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e81	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2560]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e96	The majority of the Committee emphasises that VAT is a general consumption charge and should therefore be as neutral as possible. Therefore, the introduction of a lower rate on an additional group of goods could create pressure to introduce a lower rate in other areas as well. The Progress Party believes that this is an unfortunate use of the principles of the law as an argument for not using the differentiation options inherent in the system. There is no reason Norway should not be able to do as most other European countries, which have some form of differentiation of the VAT on medicinal products. It seems somewhat strange when the ministry has recently proposed to exempt information services relating to passenger transport, an area whererestriction problems are several times greater and the justification is much worse and that a proposal to investigate the effect of reduced VAT should be problematic to support. High VAT rates mean that those who have little to travel with pay relatively much of what they have, in terms of VAT, and a differentiated rate will be socially redistributive in a field as important as drugs. It is difficult to understand that the same cannot even be assessed for medicinal products when a large number can be used for the reduction of the fee on foodstuffs. I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e107	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2560]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e124	The proposal of representatives Kenneth Svendsen and Per Erik Monsen to make private renting of boat pitches and boat associations in the field of VAT is a good and important proposal. The proposers are here at an important point in avoiding the unfairness of the fact that boat rentals in industry are treated differently from rentals from boat-place associations. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 2 for 2000–01, the bulk of the changes in the VAT law were adopted such as: This meant that the rental of private boating sites would be included in the VAT range from 1 July 2001. The change led to a sharp distortion of competition between boat associations on the one hand and private boat rentals on the other. It is therefore important to correct this bias caused by the 2001 VAT reform. It can also be mentioned that a similar proposal was dealt with last year without having a majority in the Stortinget. It is therefore gratifying to note that there is now a majority in favour of exempting boat rental sites from VAT. A minority, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, would like to reject the proposal to exempt boat rental sites from VAT, and I expect them to explain their proposal themselves. I include the Committee's recommendation, which is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, in the context of the 2003 State Budget, to make proposals to exempt boat rental sites from VAT.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e140	The extension of the VAT base to services in general has created a number of problems such as: are engaged in difficult demarcations and distortions of competition in a number of industries. This includes, among other things: hit the landlords of private boating grounds competing with boat associations. When private traders have to calculate the value added tax at their boating sites, while boating associations do not do so, it is not surprising that private landlords lose out on the competition and lose customers. It is this unreasonable distortion of competition that the proposers wish to remove. It is therefore gratifying when the Minister of Finance, in his letter of 5 April 2002, writes the following: ‘I agree with the proposers that it may seem unreasonable that boat rentals in industry are treated differently from rentals from boat-place associations. I would therefore like to consider proposing an exemption for such activities.» The majority of the Committee took the floor and asked the Minister of Finance to make such a proposal in the 2003 budget. It will solve the problem for this industry. However, the reform of VAT has led to a number of difficult demarcations between duty and tax exemptions, and it would be both natural and sensible to see these demarcation problems in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e152	This will obviously be a year-long treatment of the same topic. On the part of the Workers' Party, we believe that the legislation currently in place should be maintained, namely that boat associations which do not operate commercially should be exempted, while purely commercial operations should be subject to VAT. I then refer to the treatment that has been before. Otherwise, it's tempting to notice that it's not all the proposals and initiatives that come from the Storting, to which the Government is equally sceptical, and there's obviously going to be a new treatment when you get back. I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, that the proposal by the majority should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e161	Finally, I can only say that the Government is very grateful for the good proposals of the Storting, especially when we have the recognition of the form of proposals. It is not that they come from the Storting that is wrong, but that any proposals are excluded from budgetary procedure. This is precisely where the proposal is referred to, namely in the annual examination of the whole of the tax system. I just want to say that there are a lot of demarcation problems with the new service VAT proposal. A growing number of politicians have become increasingly aware of this, some of them also sitting in the Grand Duchy. However, I believe that this area needs to be taken into account, and in this area it seems that the criterion of ‘unification’ in order to operate boat rentals can also be a criterion which can be easily abused. There may be many associations with a greater or lesser degree of revenue if this delimitation is maintained. We have been working on this since the letter to the Finance Committee. It requires a change in the law. The amendment will include the necessary delimitation, so that it cannot be abused by any business that, in particular, would like to obtain a boating space and possibly rent it out. So there will be bounds that ensure that it's the real purpose that's being covered. I intend to send the bill to the hearing in mid-June.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e170	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2561]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e178	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. The President shall record that weather and traffic conditions have a beneficial effect on the duration of the meeting and shall hope that they will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e191	The position of the Committee was unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e196	There is no voting theme in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e217	During the debate, Mr Monsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the effects of introducing a reduced VAT on medicinal products.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e242	During the debate Svein Roald Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:87 [[2001-2002]] Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting. The Committee had ceased: In the context of the 2003 State Budget, the Government asks for proposals to exempt boat rental sites from VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e270	The report is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber, and the President refers only to the number of cases and proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e273	The unit has not been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-06-2.ana.ud417e280	The president's sorry. The report is not distributed in the hall in case of an error. Then the president will read what matters are involved, so that they are asked to increase alertness and follow closely!
