ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e45	The representatives of Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Bjørgov Froyn and Åge Konradsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik from 5 December until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of Sør-Trøndelag County, Jørund Leknes and Heidi K. Larsen respectively, applications are made to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, for welfare reasons. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Third alternate, Kirsti Welander, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Kirsti Welander is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e83	On behalf of the representative Odd Roger Enoxsen and myself, I propose to introduce a national ban on class bombs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e88	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the proceedings for cases 2, 3 and 4 have not been closed for the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with these matters now. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e104	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e120	The budgetary configuration of the Control and Constitutional Committee is unanimous and therefore does not contain any drama. It is fully in line with the Presidency's decision, the request in letter of 24 October and the follow-up of the Government in the budget proposal. The budget setting includes the Storting and the institutions subject to the Storing. The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration, the Steering Committee for the Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Service and the National Audit Office. I am sure that I have the whole committee with me when I express satisfaction with the job done by these, as well as the administration and employees of Storting. Suffering if it is not expressed in the budget position, I take the liberty of boasting it. The biggest increase in the budget for next year has the Stortinget, as was the case for this year. This is simply due to decisions taken earlier, both in the context of the 2001 Brørby Committee, which provided for increased resources for the large-scale groups and thus improved working conditions for representatives, and the establishment of the Akersgata Committee House, as well as the refurbishment of new premises and their integration into the other building mass of the Storting. The Committee welcomes the progress made in this work. It is a demanding task to get the committee house ready during 2003. I believe the Committee House will facilitate the work of the committees and take care of the democratic innovation that open committee hearings are, and have been, in an even better way than today. The fact that the committee hearings are generally open is an important part of the ongoing efforts to strengthen democracy. Democracy requires openness and transparency, including: transparency about who is involved in lobbying, and hence who is able to make important assumptions for the decisions of the Storting. In the autumn the Stortinget was handed over to the Frøiland Committee's report in the form of Document No. 14 for 2002-2003. This will allow the Committee and the Council to address very important issues of principle, such as ensuring the control function of the Grand Duchy, parliamentary review commissions – which are of course a topical issue these days – and the framework of the work of the National Audit Office, including the law and rules governing the National Audit Office, to mention some important issues. The national audit is the largest premiscible supplier of control cases for Storting. I want to underline the importance of the Riksrevision getting the space needed to do the job to do. We'll be able to get back to that in the spring. However, I would like to draw the attention of the Stortinget to the Committee's comments under the chapter dealing with the Riksrevision. In the Yellow Book, the Government points out that some departments treated the demands for transparency from the Riksrevision in the same way as the demands for transparency from the press. To that it is said that the framework for the transparency of the press under the Public Service Act is not to be used as a basis for the Supervisory Body of the Stortinge. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Government has subsequently clarified that uncertainty, on the basis that the law on the State Audit Service § 2 confers far more rights of transparency than the Public Service Act. Furthermore, Yellow Book can be understood as meaning that the Government considers that the Riksrevision's requests for transparency have been rejected on several occasions, while neither the Government nor the Riksrevision have been able to provide examples in addition to one single matter, as the Committee has mentioned earlier. An overall committee is of the opinion that the undocumented examples of practice of the Government cannot be taken into account in the treatment of the new law and instructions of the National Audit Office. I would like to add, on behalf of the SV, that we have always been clear that we want the Court of Auditors to be based on the simple principle that the Riksrevision Authority must be able to determine which documents the audit needs in order to exercise its control function. Those to be checked cannot determine what control officers should see. However, a majority in this Chamber has made it clear in the past that they wish to deal with this in the context of the examination of Document No. 14 and the processing of new laws and instructions for the National Audit Office. I have to say that I find it a little strange that the government still takes this matter up in Yellow Book. A joint committee rejects the fact that this important principle issue is addressed in this context, and that is good. Through this budgetary procedure, the Civil Ombudsman is given several posts and may go to the purchase of new equipment, including: archive system. The Committee considers that this reinforcement is a prerequisite for reducing individual cases and for increasing the number of individual cases and general administrative investigations. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ombudsman now places more emphasis on general investigations into administrative procedures. The fact that the trial period in individual cases goes down is important in itself, because many of the complaints to the Civil Ombudsman are just complaints about late handling in the administration. It is then important that the image of the Civil Ombudsman is not the same – therefore several positions. With this, I would recommend the budget setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e152	I asked for the floor to take account of the Minutes. I very much agree with all that the committee leader has said here, except in one area. She says that the National Auditorate is Storting's main premiscuous supplier. Of course, this is not the Riksrevision in any way. What's the situation, is that the Storting itself is making the premise, while the Riksrevision is one of the most important instruments we have for these premises to be followed up and function out in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e159	What the representative Mr. Engretsen brought there might be a good clarification. I have not drawn myself to that point, but simply to add a few comments to the issues raised in connection with what is stated in chapter 7.3 of the Yellow Book. I think it's necessary to comment on it a little bit, because it's that -- the main question here we're going to come back to something later -- if by this crossroads, in the committee and/or here in the Storting, we hadn't commented on this in more detail, some could get hurt to base the principle that the one who likes to consent. That's why I think it's good to say something about these issues now. For example, in the book of Yellow, chapter 7.3. says that ‘in some departments, the demands for transparency from the National Audit Office have been treated in the same way as the demands for transparency from the press’, I have to say that I really was falling off the chair. For this, it was actually suitable to create the misunderstanding that the framework for the transparency of the press under the Public Service Act was also laid before the Supervisory Body of Storting, the National Audit Office. I am therefore pleased that the Government clarified this ambiguity by stating that the Riksaudition has and will have a far greater right of transparency than the press and the public can demand under the Public Service Act. It was supposed to be missing, too! Different ministries have different guidelines for the management of transparency requests from the National Audit Office. It has emerged through the Prime Minister's reply to questions from the Progress Party. We believe that uniform guidelines are important both for the National Audit Office, the Government and the administration. This should be developed as soon as possible. But for my own part, I would like to add that it may be useful to await the treatment of the Stortinge in connection with the processing of the new law and instructions for the National Audit Office. With regard to the issue of the Court of Auditors’ right of access to the Court of Auditors, the Grand Duchy will be given the opportunity to discuss this matter in full in the context of the proceedings of the so-called Frøiland Committee and in the examination of the new law and instructions of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e170	When it comes to the budget proposal itself and that side of the case, the chairman of the committee has done very well for it, that is the whole deal in the committee. Like several others, I recorded what the leader commented on when it applies to what is stated in the Yellow Book. The size of the administrator's account is an important element in the safe management of the account. There is a need for open channels between the administration and the audit unit, and there must be indelible integrity in the audit unit, i.e. the National Audit Office. In a letter dated 14 October, the Riksrevision wrote among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is therefore the Riksrevision’s experience that all relevant internal documents, including documents containing political considerations and documents endorsed by political management, are normally transparent.’ The same letter also states that there has been a dialogue on transparency in some cases. This is not a strange thing. Also when we come so far that we have dealt with Document No. 14 for 2002–03, which has been mentioned by several here today, there may still be a ‘dialogue’ on what is relevant and what is not. The prehistory of this case shows that several governments in their hearing statements have stated that the Riksrevision should have access to all information and documents enabling the Riksrevision to carry out its audit and audit tasks. All of these conditions will make it possible to come back to spring when the new law is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e188	I would also like to make just a few brief comments on what has been included in the vote on the Court of Auditors' right of access. I think as far as it goes. Everyone is well aware of the different points of view between the parties regarding this right of access which is to be in the future. The Progress Party remains firmly committed to what we have said and proposed many times: in case of any disagreement as to which documents the Riksrevision should have access to – if there is disagreement between the Riksrevision and a department – the Riksrevision’s views are to be taken into account. That's what's crucial. There are some who believe, from time to time, that although the Riksrevision is granted access rights, it means that the public is granted access rights. I would like to stress that there is the transparency of the Storting's own body we're talking about. It's not the public, it's not the public. The National Audit Board is used to getting information that is confidential, which may be secret and will not be passed on to anyone, without my acquaintance having been any leaks on the part of the National Audit Office. The size should therefore end up giving their own control body full access rights, if the Riksrevision believes it is necessary for the matter they are dealing with. What else has emerged in connection with the correspondence that has been led as a result of the Government of St.prp. No 1 had some points of view that there have been several cases in which the Riksrevision has not gained insight and has found out about it – which, in my opinion, is a rather tedious claim to join St. prp. No 1 – the correspondence between the Prime Minister’s office and the Riksrevision has revealed that the Riksrevision itself is not aware of such cases, where they themselves have wanted transparency. It is rather slow when it is requested from the Prime Minister's office, if any, that it is not unusual for the Riksrevision to fail to see, and that the Riksrevision then finds itself with it. I think of it as part of the fight of individual leaders, in order to have a restriction on the Court of Auditors' right of access. When Stortinget comes to the final examination of Document No. Of course, there will be discussion, both in the committee and in the Chamber. But I think it's a little premature that someone is trying to create some kind of image in the public, and maybe in the media and elsewhere, of this. I am pleased that the Riksrevision has emphatically determined what it is like. But what has also been revealed is that there are different guidelines in the different departments on how to practice this and how to deal with the right of access and the Riks revision. That is why I am pleased that a joint committee is asking for action to be taken to ensure that there is a clear, uniform legislation applicable to all departments. Of course, it should have been so far that everyone had the same guidelines on how to deal with the Riksrevision. I assume that it is the Minister of Justice, since he is here, who will confirm that the Government will help to ensure that there is a uniform regulatory framework for all departments as soon as possible, so that the Riksrevision can deal with each department in the same way. I would also like to have a confirmation that it is now coming to an end that someone is going to claim and believe that the Riksaudition has the same rights under the Public Service Act as everyone else – a confirmation that the Riksaudition's right of transparency goes far beyond that of the public, the public and the media – which some departments seem to believe, based on the correspondence they have had. But I'm glad that there will now be a work going on, so that we get a uniform code, and so that the National Audit Office in the training of its staff knows that there are identical relationships in every department with regard to the relationship between the National Audit Office and the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e205	I can, of course, confirm that once the Committee of Inquiry has made a statement, as it has now done, and pointed out that there is no uniformity in the relationship between the Riksrevision and other parts of society, it is, of course, the Government's task to ensure that it is properly dealt with. It will of course be followed up. Other aspects of the issues raised will come back later when dealing with legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 760]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e228	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e239	The Judicial Committee shall today adopt a budget in which important and good contributions are made to the fight against crime in Norway. The Committee agrees on the broad lines of the budget, and the Progress Party has agreed with the Government Parties to provide subsidiary support for the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party. Prevention and combating crime is one of the main tasks of the authorities. A justice policy that ensures the security of citizens while at the same time putting legal certainty at the head office should form the framework of the policy, and these are principles to which all parties subscribe. The rapid and correct response to those who break the law is crucial, and this requires a well-functioning criminal action chain, where the time between reporting and executing sentences is as short as possible. Rapid criminal proceedings increase the preventative effect of the punishment and will often make the situation easier for the victim, pending the case being brought before the court. For that judgment, too, speed in the matter will ensure legal certainty. In recent years, police and prosecution authorities have had positive developments, and the courts and criminal services are now the bottleneck in the criminal proceedings chain. In its draft budget, the government has taken this seriously and re-prioritised something from the police to the criminal services, which has been very rarely done by governments in the past. In addition, there is a great boost to the programme content of the housing, which is behind all batches. In the agreement on the state budget, the police were strengthened by 46 million. DKK and further 10 million for criminal services. kr. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have also agreed to strengthen the courts by 5 million. kr within the limits. This is a good contribution to improving the flow and balance in the criminal justice chain. For the first time, the administration of the Court of Justice is in the budget. They shall have an independent position and have the privilege of having direct contact with the Storting. The dialogue with the Court of Justice administration is already good, and the Justice Committee has had several meetings with them. It is important that the Ministry of Justice's steering signals for coordination in the justice sector are channelled to the Grand Duchy during the work on the budget proposal. Such a control signal goes, for example: on the coordination of ICT efforts in the justice sector in order to improve the flow of criminal justice, which the Committee expects will be followed up by the Court of Justice. From the turn of the year, the Government extends the legal mediation system to six new courts. If the court-martial procedures prove to be a success, the future scheme will be an important contribution to speeding up the determination of civil matters. This will reduce the burden on courts. The government is also committed to increasing the use of the conflict management system, which may also reduce the pressure on the courts. I believe it is important that criminal policy both focuses attention on the responsibility of individuals for their own actions and on the conditions in society that affect the development of crime. Strengthening the growing-up environment is essential to prevent a criminal career and must be done through an interaction between the family, the school and other public services. We also recognise that crime is often committed in both drug and alcohol abuse. Alcohol consumption has increased in the last 10 years, while illicit drugs have been brought into line with new youth settings. Such developments reinforce the social problems associated with alcohol. There is a close link between drug use, violence and other crime, and the prevention work here is very important, also in order to reduce crime in society. An overall justice policy takes away from any liberalisation and legalisation of drugs, and I believe that the Committee here is giving a very important signal. Attitude-building work in schools and youth settings is an important work, while considerable resources must be devoted to preventing the introduction of drugs and illicit alcohol. The government is actively warning prevention policies among children and young people, who can early stop a criminal career. Prevention and response measures must be applied as early as possible to children, young people and families at risk. In recent years, the police have been subject to extensive reorganisation through police reform and are still undergoing a transformation phase. However, the Committee expects this to lead in the long term to better coordination of resources enabling the police to meet the challenges they face. An overall committee wants feedback in relation to the achievement of its objectives in this respect, e.g.: the objective of increasing the number of operational staff by more than 400. In police work, there are visible performance targets and success criteria for criminal proceedings, such as the percentage of detection and the duration of proceedings. Other elements of police work have no visible measurement criteria, e.g. What is good police work, whether the public is satisfied, whether the prevention work is properly prioritised, etc. Work against organised crime to track networks and backers cannot be measured according to the same criteria as ordinary reported crime. The work on good measurement criteria on the quality of the overall police product suggests that the Committee should be given high priority in 2003. The Government Parties and the Advance Party consider it important that police use their resources to combat crime, and less resources for administrative and routine work that can benefit others with a different background. We would also point out that the majority of the Committee in the Budgetary Section. S. No 4 for 2001-2002 the Ministry looked at the possibility of putting the transport of prisoners on the market. The Directorate of Police has now carried out an investigation into the transport of prisoners by tender and will also issue a report on the transport of asylum seekers. In our opinion, such measures will help to free up more resources for operational police work. The justice sector has a great responsibility to organise instruments that ensure a society where people can feel safe both outdoors and at home, and where people can move freely without fear of violence. Security against abuse is a prerequisite for freedom and the development of life and thus a prerequisite for a functioning society. The Committee welcomes the announcement by the Government that it will strengthen its efforts to combat violence, both in terms of the position of the victims and in terms of the need for assistance of the offenders. The focus must be on all violent crime, both against the elderly and children, and on the violence that is taking place at home. Violence against women is not only a problem for the individual woman, but also a major social problem. A number of measures are now being implemented, such as family violence coordinators, mobile violence alarms, visiting bans, discussion of fictional identity – a matter that Stortinget is about to deal with. All of these are important actions that are or will be undertaken. In the case of the male perpetrator of violence, the Government is adding up to a fund-raising program next year. It is an important measure that is believed to have a good rehabilitative and preventive effect if the offender is motivated to do so. The government in its proposal for a State budget provides for more people to receive such an offer. The Committee believes that it is important to be committed to this also in the future, and suggests that offers be developed that can reach people across the country in this respect. I would also like to point out that the voluntary organisations are making an important effort to rehabilitate offenders, as well as that many constitute an important support for relatives and victims. We also want to focus more on the many children who grow up in violent homes. In addition, studies show that these children, if not given help, are more likely to become victims themselves or overlap later in life. The Committee also points out that the Stortinge has been committed to the creation of Barnecryptus, where the intention was to increase the police’s knowledge of the treatment of criminal offences involving child abuse. We're asking the government to report back to the Stortinget on how the Barnecrypto system works. There is a great deal of effort in this budget in the field of criminal justice. It's a huge increase, and it's important that we now get more shelters to get rid of the atoning queues. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are also satisfied that the Government has placed great emphasis on the content of the settlement and will increase the use of measures to prevent relapse after release. The government also suggests that those with drug problems are more likely to zone in an institution, so-called §12 zoning, in addition to the fact that the conditional judgment system with pro-mille programmes as an alternative to unconditional imprisonment becomes a nationwide offer. With regard to the construction of prisons, I note that we are now seeing the results of last year's proposal to open up private facilities for the construction of prisons. Creativity is great, and many are on the field. At this stage, the Committee has chosen to support the project that Inner Salt Growth has been developing. We will now review this project in the future, and funding will also be provided for this. There's a lot of things you can catch up to. One of the things that I haven't been into, but it's important to focus on, is the international, organized crime. A lot of projects have been started. The Council for Organised Crime, CATCH, etc. has been set up. which helps to combat the organised crime that we see is spreading more and more. Finally, I would say that there is a broad consensus on most things. The working party and the SV have chosen to make their own comments in some areas, and they have also found room for budget increases in selected areas. I heard Jens Stoltenberg say that the Workers' Party was not in favour of new tax increases. In this budgetary position, the Workers' Party has chosen to obtain about. Eighty million. kr from the increase in legal fees, which gives an impact that suspiciously reminds me of the much-described money, especially because it is known that these funds do not necessarily go straight into the justice budget. The Committee also refers to the main objectives and targets of the justice sector drawn up in St.prp. No 1, and join these.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e297	After hearing the conclusion of the committee's chairman, I must really say, where is it from the visions of the Government in relation to the fight against crime? If we are now going to start a debate on the fight against crime with such a conclusion, I must say I am surprised. We are now discussing one of the greatest challenges facing us as a common society, and we have to give a different impression of such a debate than when, for example, we do. discusses the annual report to Buskerud Right. This is important. I have to say that I am calling for Regeringas – and to the extent that also Right – to spark in the debate and the fight against crime, sail if I have not always agreed with the proposals for solutions. There are two areas in which I think the majority position lacks any input that can really help. This applies primarily to prevention. For example, the right-hand side says: in the setting: ‘The majority will point out that maintaining a restrictive alcohol policy is a central tool in the fight against crime.’ And they keep going: ‘The majority are well known that the most effective means of alcohol policy are those that reduce availability and increase price...’ What, then, is the Government's and, in particular, the Right's vision on this issue of future alcohol policy as the main instrument for combating crime? And field number two, which I am asking for the committee's chairman's answer, is: what is the vision in relation to the enormous challenge we are now facing in terms of the reconciliation queue, which has not diminished? Is it possible to give some signals in this room that the Government, with the support of the Right, will be willing to support the massive escalation of criminal care for which the Workers' Party and SV are now in favour, of more than 50 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Will there be hope of getting support for such a proposal – at least at the next round when we discuss finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e321	The representative of Storberget called for the visions, and was a little surprised that I closed my post with a criticism of the Workers' Party's coverage. This is actually a budget debate. But I had too much to say about our visions. I had an post that could certainly have stayed for five more minutes, and it was full of visions. It was half a page about the opposition's budgeting. I think it is worrying that when the Workers' Party is going to cover this, they increase the legal fee, which means that people who make more than NOK 240 000 will have a number of more expensive procedures, while at the same time the party has gone in to remove the legal expenses for people who earn less than NOK 240 000. Then the question is whether this is a real funding. But our visions are both in the setting, and they are in my post – I spent over ten minutes on the visions. As far as the payroll is concerned, it is precisely this government that has seized it. I can't see that the Workers' Party has anything to boast of in this room when it comes to it. It hasn't happened like Christmas Eve on the bitch that the reconciliation queue has increased. But the Workers' Party did nothing in the years they put in government to expand their prison capacity. So now we've gone in to open up so that private people can build prisons. It has triggered a creativity. In fact, it is the bourgeois parties that are responsible for the creativity and innovation of criminal policy. Knut Storberget’s contribution so far has been to go in to convert prison sentences into community sentences to reduce the pay queue. It is a policy to which this government and the parties of this government will not join.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e328	It is always interesting to hear the Chairman of the Committee explain his assessment of future times. It's also interesting to notice that the right as per. Today, possibly a responsible party, is something other than the Right in opposition in terms of foreshadowing the views of a criminal, perhaps in line with the Progress Party. This vision is clearly significantly weakened by constructive cooperation – in the Cooperative Government. And that's okay. We're going to have to take note of that. At the same time, I am very much in agreement with much of what the representative Storberget mentions. I think this draft budget that has now been submitted has no vision of dealing with crime. There's an increase in criminal services, it's supposed to be said, but otherwise it's pretty much out of the last year's budget, and I don't think that's impressive. What I would like to ask the chairman of the committee to answer is: what does the chairman of the committee think would be natural cuts within the police if we had not received the reinforcement that the government parties have received together with the Progress Party? Would he then have reduced the crews out in Oslo Centre, if possible? Would he have committed more cases concerning profit-criminalism, if possible? Should we investigate even fewer acts of violence, if possible? In concrete terms, what action would the committee leader have proposed that the police should deprioritise?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e337	Now I'm not the police director, and that's why Elling's question is really going to be hypothetical. It's no longer the Stortinget who's going to run the detail and direct the police. I think we've done the right thing by setting up a police directorate that has the overall governance and that prioritises the funds. But when that is said, I would like to add that I am very pleased that the Progress Party will meet the Government in the budget negotiations, first in the big budget and then in our budget, in the justice budget. As a result, we have received the necessary funds for the police in place. We have received a strengthening of criminal justice, and we also get a smaller strengthening of the courts. So I have to say that I'm a little surprised by the angle Ellingsen suggests, that he agrees with the Great Mountain in most cases. Then it will be interesting in the future justice policy! But I assume that he agreed with much of what was said in the reply to Storberget, and there was a lack of vision that was the theme. I had a post that was full of visions, and the most important vision this government has is actually to make sure that there's a balance in the criminal case chain, and that it's driven a good prevention work. And along with the Justice Committee, I think the government can do a lot of this. The Judicial Committee has now delivered a position in which there are many non-framework decisions, including: the police role shall be investigated. We will explore the possibility of a ‘university prison’, which is a new way of thinking in Norway. We're also going to look at this by giving increased prosecution powers to the police lawyers, just to get some of the plugs out of the criminal chain. So I'm very happy that we have a justice that really works well together, and that helps to draw up visions of Norwegian criminal policy and justice policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e344	SV believes that there are two things in particular that should have been carefully spent in this budget, in the total budget, too, not just in the area of justice. One is the prevention side. How do we prevent us from creating a society that produces more and more crime? In relation to childhood and juvenile delinquency, the Government has often pointed out that the main prevention work is in the municipalities. So this government doesn't deliver at all. We are very much afraid now that the result of a decline in the local economy, a decline in the offers to children and young people, will lead to more kids slipping out and, as later, will probably be met by a mixture of this government and the Progress Party – that party is going to put many of the leaders ahead – tough lines towards them. The second is rehabilitation. How are we going to make sure that prisoners come out again on the other side that – I was saying – better people, people who are able to function normally in society without ruining the lives of others in the future? Then I would like to point out that Alternatives to Violence are one of the very best offers we can expand in dealing with people with violent problems. The government has ordered a book that has gone into violence. Here it's referred to as between 60 and 70 pst. they may be treated by violent persons if they are adequately treated. I wonder what the government is doing to make sure that we build up this type of treatment site. And don't come here and say that a grant is 1.5 million. kr., for there is only a small drop in the sea. What's needed here is a massive bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e351	I'm very pleased with the recordings that Thorkildsen's representative made. When it comes to prevention, I said a lot about it in my post, I said a lot about the growing-up environment related to home, school, public. These are important things that I take seriously, and that we are actively working with on the part of the Committee, but also on the part of the Ministry and the Government. No Marte Thorkildsen's cappphest no. 1 is ‘Alternative to Violence’. There is no one in this room, as I know, who has something negative to say about the way 'Alternative to Violence' works. But it is not that the organisation will automatically have the monopoly to operate with the kind of treatment of violent perpetrators. That is why a unanimous judiciary has also presented a proposal for a framework-independent decision asking ‘The Government to ensure the development of nationwide offers in the field of violence and sensitisation’. The Committee would point out, inter alia, that: The breeze, which has programs that go on much of the same thing. It's very easy to be fascinated by one solution, by one organization, but I think it's important that we open up to more. The objective, I think, we agree, is to gain control of men who practice violence and to reduce it. This is good, and I think it's the first time a government is so conscious of that kind of action. That is why I do not understand what the representative of Thorkildsen has to complain about. This is an offensive effort from the Government that became even more pussy before the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e368	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e371	After one year of co-operation, no one is in any doubt anymore: the Right is in the leadership of criminal policy. In the budget, we see this by not getting the much-needed bet, while the important crime prevention work done in the municipalities of the country suffers from the starvation of the municipalities. We are experiencing a Minister of Justice who is getting tougher and tougher in tone by calling for stricter penalties and restrictions on the legal security of ordinary people. He's got sent to the hearing proposals for an upper penalty framework for serious crimes ranging from 21 to 30 years of incarceration extended access for private individuals to make appeals to increase the provision of half-way penalties to two-time proposed privatisation of prisoner transport proposed forced collection of parents who do not meet with concerns Good, old Right Policy, but measures that have stood a liberal and humanist left-man removed earlier. The Left and Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, has been responsible for a human rightwing with long traditions here in Norway, and it has proved to be effective. We have little crime compared to countries where the level of punishment is higher. In the United States, the level of penalties accumulates according to the number of convictions committed. From there we hear about judges over 100 years old. But compared to the United States, Norway is an ideal for crime. The working party will strongly warn against the idea of a stronger integration into our justice system. Calling for increased punishment, whether from our allies or relatives, should meet with sensible decisions and arguments, not populism. It should also have been the line of the Christian People's Party and the Left, but after reading Marthinsen's chronicle in the newspaper today, I am unfortunately beginning to be a little in doubt. Crime prevention starts long before the police start their prevention work. The main appropriations for crime prevention are not entered in the budget of the Ministry of Justice. For us who are policymakers, the budget for the municipalities should be as important as the budget for justice. The fact is that crime prevention starts with a good family policy, good kindergartens, an inspiring and inclusive school, a good and cheap school leisure system and, in particular, good leisure opportunities for our children. In addition, society needs targeted and effective assistance for children and young people with special needs. Already in kindergarten, it is possible to point out some of the children who will later end up with a criminal racetrack. That's why it's so very important to have good kindergartens and a well-functioning babysitting system. In many cases we have succeeded. We've managed to catch up with the kids that seem to fall outside. But the danger that we will more fail is present when the municipalities are now forced to cut off important care services for children. Crime prevention needs to be seen in a wider context. It's this whole co-operation government seems to be missing. By cutting the school leisure system, cutting the cultural budget and depriving the public school, the Government, well assisted by the Advance Party, is building down central crime prevention measures. In addition, they feed the municipalities, which means that we receive daily messages from the municipality of Norway about the closure of schools, the closure of recreational clubs and other cultural services for young people, as well as cuts in child protection and outreach. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have had good cooperation in the budgetary process. We agree on how the money should be made available within the budget limits of the Ministry of Justice. Our main priority is to strengthen criminal custody. We are disappointed that criminal justice does not get the much-needed promise. Everyone is now talking about how important it is to increase the commitment to criminal justice. We now had a golden opportunity to solve the most acute problems. But when the Co-operation Government and the Advance Party are given the opportunity to increase the budget, the criminal services are fed off with small amounts of money, while the majority go to the police. Fine words help little, it's the action that counts. The next year, even less money will be allocated to the number of prisoners in Norwegian prisons. We know that Norwegian prisons are struggling with a small crew and poor follow-up of the individual prisoner. Many prisons only serve as a safe house. They are unable to provide an offer of rehabilitation that will help ensure that the prisoner is more law-abiding on the day he comes out than he was on the day he came in. In addition, there is an increasing number of prisoners with mental health problems, and in several institutions more than half of the prisoners have major drug problems. These need more than one cell space, they need help and treatment. We are going to deal with legislative changes to prevent childhood and juvenile delinquency for a week. A number of measures are proposed, including: the obligation for the police to investigate offences committed by children under 15 years of age, the extension of the use of concerns, the ban on residence and the speeding up of criminal proceedings involving young offenders. The working party and SV believe that this requires the police to put more money into this area. We therefore propose, in the context of the budget, that the increase to the police be 44 million. kr are earmarked, among others. for that purpose. In addition, we want these means to be used to strengthen the work of family violence. In the event of an incurrency, it has fallen out of the budget position. The proposition on childhood and juvenile delinquency also suggests increased use of conflict advice for children and young people. The Labour Party and the SV consider it important that society react quickly to crimes committed by children and young people and that the conflict council is a good response. That is why we are proposing to increase the allocation to the conflict councils by 15 million. kr. We know that there is a large unmet need for free legal aid in the population. This need for legal assistance is largely linked to legislation designed to ensure the cohesion of societal differences. We are pleased that in ours we got a majority to remove the excess of free legal aid, and that the income pile was raised to NOK 230 000. We assume that the Council of State will follow up on the budget and introduce these improvements from 1 September 2003. But for the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, there is still a little bit left before we believe that this system works according to its intention, namely to ensure a smoothing of the differences between peoples and to meet their basic legal needs. We therefore ask the Government to consider raising the income limit for free legal aid to NOK 250000 from 1 January 2004. In addition, we expect the Minister of Justice to come back with a separate case of free legal aid, as suggested in the context of the examination of the changes in the Law on Legal Aid in Spring 2002. We believe that this Communication should include proposals for free initial consultation, free legal advice relating to public service offices, the role of law students and the extension of the substantive scope of the Legal Aid Act. The great effort made by the police in recent years and their increased efficiency has not only led to atoning cows, but also the pressure on the courts has increased sharply. Effective criminal proceedings now require more money to be given to the courts to enable them to settle cases within specified time limits. The Labour Party and SV therefore propose to increase the appropriations allocated to the courts by 15 million. kr. Finally, I would like to address the proposals in which the Labour Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e429	The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change. (A banner is now suspended from the gallery with the inscription ‘Stop the deferral. JUSS BUSS Free legal aid now!)
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e442	It will be an advantage if you remove the banner and go quietly, otherwise you will be helped out. [[Security guards lead the demonstrators out.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e451	The black paint has taken over. One would, after hearing Mr. Gunn Karin Gjul's comments, believe that this judicial budget, to which the Workers' Party subscribes on the vast majority of points, would be a complete collapse for justice policy in Norway. I want to remind you that there has been no more than a year since the Workers' Party left the government offices, and much of what Gunn Karin Gjul describes is the results of the Labour Party's policy for many years. In the last period, the Right Party and the Labour Party agreed on justice policy. We agreed to conduct a tough justice policy. The Progress Party may have led a crude justice policy, but the Right and the Labour Party agreed to pursue a tough justice policy. The fact is that the person who has changed his mind in the last year is the Workers' Party, which has gone from being tough in criminal policy to becoming'soft'. If one is to interpret the opinions of individual representatives of the Workers' Party, it is now the rehabilitation that is the most important thing about the compensation, not the punishment. It's clear that both are important, but there's now a lot of emphasis on one piece and not on the balance that's needed. There's a lot of work to do on the crime scene, it's a big deal. It is a shift of line that the Government in the justice sector actually prioritises criminal justice at the top in terms of new appropriations. It didn't do the Workers' Party. That's why Gunn Karin Gjul's representative has little to do with presenting the situation in the justice sector, in Municipality-Norway and in the country, as black as she does.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e464	I understand that it is uncomfortable for the Co-operation Administration to talk about the actual situation in criminal matters. I don't think the Norwegian policemen thought it was a black paint I was running with. On the contrary, I think they recognize in the situation description I gave, that there are major problems in criminal matters. There's a lot of sick leave, they have a lot of problems following up on the individual prisoners. And instead of the fact that the representative of Greece is concerned about criticising the Workers' Party because we point out the unfortunate developments we have in criminal matters, I think the Cooperation Government and the Right should be concerned about finding solutions and discussing with us: how are we going to solve the challenges we have in Norwegian criminal matters? What we're experiencing now is that there's going to be a discussion about who describes reality right or wrong. It is also a fact in this case that there has been a shift in Norwegian criminal policy in the last year. In the past, it was actually such that the main centre of gravity of criminal policy was at the intersection of the centre and the Workers' Party. That was the policy we pursued, which got a majority among others. in the case of the prevention of crime and in the case of the severity of the penalties. In all of these areas, we had a majority. But what we're seeing now is that we've got a clear line shift, where the right-hand side now sits much more in the driver's seat. We record that, among other things: by giving much clearer signals that more severe penalties and more police will be the lead in criminal policy, not the fight against crime through preventive measures and by doing something in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e473	The representative, Gjul, asked for money for the crime department and for the police and pointed out that there were spooky conditions. We in the Group of the European People's Party fully agree with that. If you look at our alternative state budget, you see what numbers we wanted to get in. But at least we got something, while the Workers' Party threw the cards and got nothing in the negotiations. So to the framework within which the Workers' Party has prioritised: the Workers' Party tends to talk about totality and solidarity. It means in the Workers' Party that it should be as expensive as possible to live and as expensive as possible to move tax. So when the Workers' Party is now going in to increase the bill of things, and they in their alternative state budget have not lowered the extraordinary increase in money laundering and mortgages, they have added at least NOK 900 to the transfer tax. Then there are specific questions about this in practice is solidarity with those who want to establish themselves? Perhaps it is so interesting when the Workers' Party, in its comments, mentions the competitive outsourcing of captive transport. The Workers' Party has had a high tabling. Now the Workers' Party says: ‘These members are of the opinion that the transport of prisoners is an authority task. Such transport may result in the use of power, which these members consider to be reserved to police officers». But then they also say, ‘However, these members consider it positive that, as part of the pilot project now being launched, efforts are being made to use civil servants to perform such services.’;» What does the Workers' Party even mean? Is the Workers' Party really on track now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e497	It's always very unpleasant for the Progress Party to talk about what they're into. That is why they constantly refer to their alternative budget. They're talking about their primary positions, they're talking about their secondary positions, they're even talking about their tertiary positions. But the problem in terms of criminal law and the fight against crime is that the Progress Party has a responsibility for this in this Chamber today by being heavy on the scale that makes it a majority that we do not take the initiative in criminal matters that we need. It is no good that the representative Kvakkestad sits in the News of the Day, Athens, talking about how important criminal care is, and how important it is that we increase our efforts, because when they arrive at the hour of settlement and have the opportunity to increase their efforts, they choose to give a completely different priority to criminal services. I think it is a bit alarming that when we talk here today about as important things as combating child and youth crime, how we are going to solve the problems of criminal care, and how we are going to be tough in the fight against crime, prevent people who are being put in prison from becoming repeaters, and help them to be more law-abiding on the day they go out than on the day they went in, the Progress Party is talking about a matter-handling fee. I would like to encourage the Advance Party to travel around leisure clubs, which they are now laying down. Travel to Holmlia and talk about that in the criminal policy is the most important thing for the Progress Party the luminosity fee. I'll encourage them to do that. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is to find solutions to the major criminal policy challenges we have today, and that is why we have been hard on our priorities. We have given priority to criminal services over something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e502	First of all, I would like to say that the SV and the Workers' Party have had excellent cooperation in relation to this budget. We've written together on almost every point and on absolutely every number. I think that's very good. This means, among other things: that we are now laying a basis for, hopefully, getting a majority in favour of a massive commitment to criminal justice. Our two parties have added 57.9 million. kr in relation to the government’s budget. There is still one thing I want to ask the Workers' Party questions about. It's about insulation. We have a common note in relation to what was revealed in the Evening Post on 25 November 2002, that the new legislative reform adopted by the Stortinget in June has not been followed up on isolation, and that the situation is partly worrying in Norwegian prisons. Nevertheless, the Labour Party will not follow SV until what should be the conclusion, namely a total ban on full isolation of prisoners in Norwegian prisons. SV believes that there are several reasons to go for such a total ban. One reason is that isolation can make prisoners more aggressive so that they pose a risk to the staff of the criminal justice system. Another reason is that this counteracts rehabilitation. It's a very strong feeling for an inmate, and especially if he's initially e.g. have ADHD or mental problems, to be totally isolated in cella. I would like to ask the representative Gunn Karin Gjul if the Workers' Party is somewhat doubtful about this, and whether they would like to go in for a ban on isolation once in a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e512	First of all, I would like to commend the representative Thorkildsen for the good cooperation we have had with SV in prioritising the justice sector. We fully agree that we need to make quite significant improvements in criminal matters. It is precisely in this area that the question of isolation also comes in. This is because of the major problems that you face, among other things. Criminal custody, the fact that we are constantly being told by the torture commission that we are not complying with fundamental human rights in this area. We also have a common observation that we recommend to the Council of State to resolve these problems as soon as possible. I actually think there's quite a broad consensus in this room that we have to follow up international human rights in this area. From the Labour Party we see it very seriously, and we have it all the time for observation. I also assume that the Council of State has. In the case of SV's proposal to remove the entire isolation scheme, it is probably more sceptical of the Workers' Party. We know that in a situation where we have an increasingly tougher crime scene, with great international crime, where the police need to have good investigation methods, and where the risk of evidence was constantly going to be present, would be very unfortunate if we removed the entire isolation system, precisely for the purpose of investigation and the possibility of having what happened, and getting convicted of a serious criminal act.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e521	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e524	Reading the government's draft budget is always interesting, because it says something about the direction the government wants to go. We in the Progress Party thought it was defensive when we read it. We think, as we've been up to in the past, that there are no visions. For us, it seems very clear that justice policy is not a primary task for the current government. We're sorry about that. For us, it looks like the government's most concerned about forming an image outside of being concerned with it, while you're actually not. We also believe that there is a clear perspective here in relation to the perception that people in the street have of the crime they experience. That's where we think there's a great deal of distance between what you're expressing and what's real. Because if you read the proposal, you'll see that it's an increase in drug crime. The win crime is approximately: 50 pst. of the crime we have. Here, too, it's an increase. In Focus in the NRK on Tuesday there was an entry from Oslo where it was shown that over 40,000 burglary and winning cases in Oslo are being deposited – over 90 p.m. He's being deported! That's the priority that this government is able to achieve. We think there is a total lack of respect for those affected by this. Unfortunately, there is also an increase in the number of violent offences and in the number of violent reports, and we have an explanation rate of 33! A little ugly: we should probably be happy that we don't have a greater percentage of information, because we have no room to do with these people. It is true that settlement queues have only increased in recent years, and unfortunately they continue to increase. It is not surprising that people are frustrated by this – not only ordinary people, who are directly affected, but also the police, who in a way must be responsible for a part of it. There's a look in the papers today that because of lack of space you have to release people. It does not promote respect among ordinary people – and ordinary people are once again our voters. These are the ones we have to be responsible for. There is also more and more serious violence, and not least you experience people calling the police and asking for help and not getting it. It's something of the worst, at my discretion. There are burglaries, there are other crimes that may be debatable, but for those affected, it is extremely serious. And it's to be taken into account. Something else is unacceptable. The budget includes, among other things: the need for a judicial policy to safeguard the security of citizens. I doubt whether you actually have it today. At least it doesn't seem like that to me. What, then, is the attitude of the Progress Party towards this? I will, of course, deal with our primary draft budget. We have, of course, subsidiaryly supported the Government. I'll come back to that. But from our side, there is a clear reinforcement of the police. We believe that the police still need more funding. With regard to the frustration expressed by the police, it is clear that they want to do a better job than they are able to do today. It is we, as politicians, who give them the framework conditions through the budget. Here, in my opinion, we all have a challenge in relation to doing more on that side as well. Another point that we also see need to do something about is, of course, criminal law. I have no problem taking inwards that we should have done more there. As I said this time in our alternative budget, we have strengthened the criminal justice system by 142 million. kr, and thus think that we have benefited from farms. But we have not received a majority for that, and we have then reached a compromise, which I will also come back to. Of course, we have strengthened the courts. We have strengthened the rescue services and the conflict councils. We have, after negotiating a settlement with the government parties, obtained, within the framework, an increase to the courts. We've got a reinforcement of criminal custody, and we've got a reinforcement of the police. For us, it was very important to get to this, including what we ourselves have done with amendments within the framework, as I said. In addition to this, we have looked at organisational features. We believe that time is ripe – and we are the only ones who believe it – so that private individuals can operate prisons in this country. We believe that private property can be responsible for running a prison for people convicted of less serious crime. We don't think that's a problem. It should, of course, be based on given guidelines that the public imposes on the operator of such a measure. It's not like we're going to have something wild west here. But we believe that a private offer can be a supplement to remedy some of the problems we are struggling with today. We have also said something in a note about the purchase of properties abroad. I am very surprised that the Right does not agree with this. I have registered that the representative Hofstad has flagged high opportunities to look at settlements abroad. But when it comes to reality, I do not see that the Right is following up on its own proposals. Again: Only paper and Watch and Hear journalism – and politics, not least! That seems to me to promote the moment that you don't get respect for what you do. And that's what I think you should try to avoid as much as possible. We have also taken the initiative to assess prison management training in North Norway. The Justice Committee has visited the Police College, which is a success in that part of the country. We believe that the same should have been considered in criminal matters, but we are therefore alone in this matter. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party. Furthermore, as I said, we have negotiated a settlement with the government parties. When you negotiate a deal, you take it and you give it. So have we. But we have been strengthened in areas that were important to us, such as the police, the courts and the criminal justice system. And we're going to keep doing that. For us, it will be important to look again at organisational issues, a review of the police role, to which the Committee has joined. We think it is necessary and sensible to look at how we use police resources today, whether we should have a greater distinction between what the police are going to do directly and what others can do. Our point of releasing resources is not to balance the justice sector, but to transfer released funds to other necessary sectors such as the police and the criminal justice system. As the committee leader went into it, we also of course go in to reduce the pay queue by increasing the number of settlements. I think it is positive that a new prison should now be considered in North Norway, and perhaps at the same time you can phase out some of the old ones, which do not hold any particularly good standards. Reviewing the defence facilities is part of the reconciliation between the government parties and the Progress Party, and here it is, among other things. currently to look at the Rodbergodden in Troms, which has some facilities that you might be able to use here. Violence is a matter of concern to the Committee, and it is important to have a common front. It will be different from a political approach, but I understand that the committee is united. In the case of gross violence to which women are subjected, the Committee does a comprehensive job in relation to the identity and prohibition of visits, as well as in the budget on violence and sensuality. The representative of SV has previously been on ATV, and the committee has said that this is important. It's important because violence is going to hit them in the defenseless society, and it's going to hit the kids. That might be the most important reason why we should focus heavily on this. And not least, we should focus heavily on what goes on using weapons. The police reform is also one thing that we have said something about. It seems to me to be worrying, at least part of us. The intention of the police reform, as I perceived it, was that there should be more visible police in the streets. So far I'm in doubt if that's the case. At least I get a lot of enquiries from people who claim to have a worse offer today. It is possible that it is right in a transitional phase, but we will soon have to have some visible effect on this, unless we have to assess the reform. Alternatively, we need to put more resources into a transition phase, so that we don't hit ordinary people out. This is, in my opinion, a challenge for the Stortinget, but also for the Minister of Justice, the Government and the Department. The Committee has also supported a research project on crime. It is a good proposal that the representative from SV first addressed in the committee, to which we have joined. I think that's a very good idea. It's probably the way criminal policy fights against other disciplines when the government lays down its framework. I think that such a research project can be involved in clarifying the challenges we face with regard to crime in Norway, and if you can get facts on the table, what the price is, it is likely to be easier to get an impact on increased efforts to combat crime in this country. It's at least our approach to this. That is why I think it makes sense. Another thing that was important to us was this with strengthening in relation to asylum and refugee recipients in the light of the fact that some communities are being very hard hit, and that now opens up the possibility of doing something about it. So short at last to the Workers' Party and SV. When I read the comments from there, I understand, of course, that we have a different political approach. But I think one simplifies some of the problem, because it's not that bad local economy automatically causes increased crime. Nor is it that if you are poor, you become a criminal. I refuse to believe that. I think it's a simplification. Of course, that's my interpretation of the notes that are available here, but part of it I'm taking a great distance from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e564	The representative Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e569	That the Progress Party is the government's support party, there is no doubt about it any more. For the second consecutive year, they participate in and secure a majority of the Government's budget. But for government parties, having the Progress Party as a partner must be a rather frustrating and, not least, confusing situation. At one moment they enter into a budgetary agreement, in order at the next moment to use all the energy to discharge themselves of any responsibility. To read the Committee on Budgets' remarks on the justice sector is rather a strange experience. For what is the party really saying, and what is the party going for? I almost have to ask if the party suffers from a little personality disorder when, in the form of a note, they operate with primary, secondary and simply tertiary alternative choices. It all seems to me like a budget parody. For those in criminal care, who have been promised more money by the Progress Party throughout the spring, the summer and the autumn, it is absolutely inconvenient whether the Progress Party has an alternative budget in which they primarily want more money for criminal care, or, for that matter, secondary wants more money for criminal care. What is important for the staff of the criminal justice system and also for the prison population in Norway, in order to improve the enforcement of criminal sanctions, is what is ultimately granted in this room. And as long as the Advance Party is involved in the appropriations, they also have a responsibility for it. The Progress Party had a unique opportunity to increase the efforts of criminal services, and I want to ask the representative Ellingen: What happened? What is the reason why the criminal services were fed off with small picks, while the police were the ones who ran away with the money again? I would like to have a good answer on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e578	It's interesting with a string changer. – If one goes far enough about this problem, it means in its ultimate consequence that those who have not adopted their budgets should not present them. In that case, perhaps the Workers' Party and SV should have ‘ship’ that part of their own job, if there were to be logic in what was suggested by the representative Gjul. It has clearly been a priority for the Progress Party. We have prioritised the police on the basis of the approach that more police will be involved and prevent increased crime. If we succeed, we can get fewer needs in criminal matters. In addition, I think that the representative Gjul should take inwards that there is actually an increase in the compromise, and that was something the Progress Party was given, which the Workers' Party did not get.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e587	A broad majority of the Judicial Committee has voted in favour of a more active use of community sanctions. It's just the Progress Party that thinks this is a hair-removing attitude. I believe that the party with this is showing the same unknowing attitude as for accommodating in an open prison, or ‘prison with a lower level of security’, as it is called. I think this is about prejudice. Or is it a deliberate deception to the people, because the party believes it is important for them to maintain a distrust of such types of atonement, which we actually believe helps to rehabilitate people in a much better way? I'll tell the representatives of the Progress Party that people who zone, for example. in an open establishment, it appears to be tough. It's tough because they have to stay free, they have to undergo treatment, they have to participate in education in a completely different way than when they're sitting on the cell saying, for example. at Ila or at Ullersmo. The same is true with regard to social sanctions: many people think this is a bone-tipped problem precisely because they are so strongly demanded. They can't just sit there with their hands in jail. Then I wonder why the Progress Party is not willing to consider what this really is about, that there may be much more important measures than the party claims, that it may be an important effort to prevent further crime, for example. among children and young people, but also among those with low penalties, who are currently waiting a very long time to come to the settlement. There are people who have been judged, for example. a few weeks or just a few months, waiting several years to come to the settlement. It's not a very smart criminal policy, because it could mean that once they've got a job, for example, they have to stop it to make a living or tell the employer what's really going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e598	In order to remove any doubt about the attitude of the Progress Party towards the Social Penalty: it is, of course, politically conditional. In many cases, after what I've been made aware of, you're down on an hour's compensation per. Day, which then becomes synonymous with a day's atonement. We think we should take inwards the victims' position in this. Once again, SV comes on the track, but with an overlap focus. The only time we see that SV is concerned about the victims is when it comes to women. Otherwise I think SV lacks total credibility. The only thing you care about – time and time again and again – are the ‘stackers’ of the attackers and the violent, while the victims are small, with a few exceptions. That's why we're skeptical about social punishment. We have said that for a few exceptions — first-time criminals — we can make use of it. It's another factor that's important. It's my reverent claim and my feeling that the majority in this room are hiding behind open atoning and community punishment because you have no backbone to do anything about the atoning capacity. Had you done anything with it, we would have escaped some of these problems. So, of course, you can say that in some cases there is more merit in terms of community punishment and open settlement. Yes, it has also been said by the Progress Party that we believe for a few exceptions, but not as a substitute for a lack of commitment to criminal care and compensation through many, many previous governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e607	The party of progress also lives in this misunderstanding that the Government lacks visions. There is no goal for the government to make the criminal care of the big business in line with the one we recognize in, among other things. U.S.A. Care for the individual must not drown in requirements of efficiency and capacity. Parental care failure cannot be corrected by public budgets. This can also be noted in relation to previous speakers’ speeches. Parents use alcohol affects many children and young people. Many children and young people start using alcohol and other drugs very early. This helps to make the way out into criminal activities often very short for some of them. It can also be said here that everything is related to everything. Freedom and responsibility belong together. The personal freedom that the Progress Party stands for in many political areas must be followed up with greater demands for personal responsibility. And my question to Ellingsen will then be: How will the Progress Party contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e616	Initially, to the representative of Holstad about ‘big business’, care and the United States as a reference here: I was in my post saying that to the extent that alternative forms of operation should be open, it should be according to public policy. Then we think you'll give clear leadership on it, and I don't think it's necessarily going to be big business. With regard to the other issue raised by the representative Holstad, it's up to the Progress Party to find a balance point between giving people opportunities and the ability of people to take responsibility for their own actions. Basically, we have great confidence in people. We have great confidence that every individual person knows best what is right for himself. It's when you abuse these things that you have to have a tool on the other side that balances it. So my answer must be, to the extent that I see the question as clear, that for us it is about a balance between trust and responsibility of each of us who live in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e623	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e627	I am addressing the suggestions that SV has in the setting, immediately, so I will not forget it when there is a bad time at the end. SV's criminal policy starting point is this: how can we ensure that our society is as secure as possible? How can we prevent people from destroying the lives and quality of life of others? How can we make sure that those who commit criminal acts do not commit new ones? These questions are absolutely fundamental to us, but we don't have a fascist answer to them. I don't think anyone in this room has that. At the same time, we know a lot about this, and I would like to use this knowledge a lot, a lot more than we do when we decide what is Norwegian justice policy. What do we know? We know a lot about those who are locked up in Norwegian prisons. We know, for example. that very many of them have drug problems. We know that many of them have experienced care failure, domestic violence or absenteeism. We know that many of them, actually as many as 30 pst, have ADHD, and that inmates, especially those with mental disorders and ADHD, experience isolation on the cell as a particularly strong strain. We know that many prisoners have poor connections to the housing market, low education, that they are without a permanent job and do not exactly have a stable and good social network. We know – among other things because John Alvheim of the Progression Party has investigated it – that many more than we like to acknowledge ourselves, are struggling with mental problems, and that some have very severe suffering, even mental retardation. Some of them are sitting on Ila. We also know that many people who work in kindergartens, SFOs and schools think they can point out who will go wrong with the later ones in life, and that most of these are boys. In fact, almost all prisoners in Norwegian prisons are boys or men, so many that on the one hand it is likely so conspicuous that it blinds us, while on the other hand we tend to forget that some prisoners are not men but women, and that they often have different needs and backgrounds than the male prisoners. I would like us to take on board the knowledge we have about what is the main reason why people are slipping on, that we are, unlike, for example. The United States does not assume that these people are first and foremost filled with a bottomless evil that makes them immutable, but that the actions they do have a history, and that most can actually change. Most of them have a story we can congratulate ourselves on not having. Not to say – to the representative Ellingsen, who is somewhere, not here – that this is an excuse, but at least it is important knowledge. We had an interesting discussion here on Tuesday, when we discussed whether people who commit criminal acts with weapons should have a firm, unconditional prison sentence, without individually assessing each case, a proposal from the Progress Party. I have to say that I often meet myself in the door when I discuss criminal policy. I notice – fortunately, really – that I often doubt that I would like to be able to say: Yes, punish them hard, they deserve no mercy. I have close contact with many victims of violence, and I have seen too many times in close proximity what this does to people, not just women. At the same time, I have also had contact with some prisoners and employees in Norwegian prisons and heard what they have to say about Norwegian criminal policy. Often everyone agrees on one thing, both victims and perpetrators: our society is not safe. Victims want help to deal with the problems they have after they've been through. They want the attacker to be punished, and they often want severe punishment, natural enough. The inmates I've met have often told of an uprising where everyone saw what was about to happen, but no intervention, or they tell about drug problems, trouble at school, that they sailed into criminal acts. Most people actually want to start over. I have met a few cynics and few who have given up their wish for change – sail if I have met them as well. These people often want to educate themselves, they often want to be able to zone in the last time in so-called open-plan and in the shelters, so that they can get used to a normal life again, and many also want to get help to deal with their problems. Last, but not least, they want someone to accept them when they release, that they get a place to live and a job. Somebody's going to the hospital instead. I don't think I've met a single one who before they took the criminal action, set and calculated what punishment they could expect to get, but I've seen what it can do to people when nothing happens, when the reactions fail. At regular intervals, housing conditions in Norwegian prisons are characterised as ‘hotel-like’. I'm glad to see a hotel-seeking prison. But I have met an inmate who had to be persuaded to move over to the open ward, after sitting five years in the closed, because he wanted to zone under what he felt as “safe conditions”, behind high walls on his own cell. I know that I will rather meet this man after a longer stay in an open school where active participation is required in treatment and education or work, than to meet him directly after a continuous stay in a closed school, without treatment for the problems he had. Taking decisions in the field of justice includes: about getting involved in what it means to be subjected to criminal acts. But it is also about taking the steps that allow people to be rehabilitated, among other things. in the interests of potential future victims. And it's a matter of legal certainty. Personally, I think we have too often seen that the legal certainty of the victims is not well cared for, and criminal acts are expounded and excused. This is particularly true in cases of rape and domestic violence. I think we've done too little in many ways to make sure that, for example. violent men have a rapid and appropriate response. But I honestly think it's an even bigger problem that we don't do enough to prevent crime or rehabilitate criminals. The police will never get enough money to fight crime in a society that does not prevent and rehabilitate. I've been asking the police in the debate about the rest of the state budget: the part that's about municipal economy, mental health, child protection, school and drugs, to mention something. And I am convinced that a large-scale effort on the treatment of drug users and those convicted of violence in Norwegian prisons will pay off enormously. SV and the Workers' Party have been committed to this in their budget. In addition, SV has taken money from the Defence Agency, oil investments and shareholders in order to add an extra SEK 8.5 billion to the municipalities, because we believe that investing in good and safe growth conditions for children and young people is an investment that will pay off and, among other things, will pay off. will determine crime statistics. There's no contradiction between this and standing for quick and fair responses. On the contrary, these two elements complement each other and are the wisest thing a politician can do. Imagine if we could think 50 years ahead in time and not just until the next elections! Think if we could give a real priority and not spit in a little bit here and there and hope that it goes well. One thing is certain: with the budget presented next year, many will experience that things are not going well. I'm not going to paint black, because I have a little sense of that. But I think it is quite appropriate to point out that a Minister of Justice, who is not a private-practice government council, but who, on the contrary, is behind the overall profile of a proposal that increases the differences between people, who weaken the local economy, the SFO and the schools, who liberalise drug policy, who do not follow the psychiatry escalation plan, and who, at the same time, add to a massive competitive outlay, privatisation and flexibility in working life, will have a real backbone. An animal like that. Now the Minister of Justice has a background from the Church's Bymission and has looked at a close team how bad it can do the day after. I wish I could say that I admire him, had it not been for the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities, especially children and young people, to have to share it. This fall, the government has provided a big message that addresses developments in children and young people's living conditions. This message shows a list of all others. between 14 000 and 19 000 Norwegian children grow up in homes with persistently low incomes. Many of these belong to households where adults have a weak connection to the labour market. In addition, children with a migrant background are overrepresented. Almost every child from their homes with persistently low incomes was first- or second-generation immigrants. This can have major negative consequences for both the individual child and its family and for society. The government notes with satisfaction that children and young people are extra commodities for inequalities in the distribution of well-being goods. SV believes that it is appropriate to focus heavily on countering the differences identified by the Bondevik Ice Government's disparity notification. SV also believes that it is necessary to invest in the SLT, that the provision to children and young people with mental problems needs to be upgraded, and that the psychiatry must be included in the multidisciplinary follow-up hours. SV believes that we should have a debate on what to do with increasing drug consumption, how many adults are very bad role models. ADHD/ADD issues present particularly major challenges, both in terms of knowledge, resources and cooperation between different public agencies. Studies show that the incidence of ADHD is extremely much higher within prisons than outside, in fact it has as many as 30 pst. by prisoners in prisons. Why is it that few of them get the help they need? Why is it still that so many young people and children with ADHD are not caught? The Minister of Justice tends to say something wise: it's about having a warm heart and a cold head. Well said! Had he followed up in practice by investing in prevention and rehabilitation, combating total isolation of prisoners and duplication of cells, reintroducing the activity permits and giving Alternatives to Violence and other treatments the means they need to treat people, I would say that he is a man for his words. I don't think he is – not completely. It is excellent that the Minister of Justice spends as much time talking about cooperation, volunteering and caring about. But we also have to be willing to bet the money that is needed so badly. This is not free. Even though it is claimed from the Justice Department that the Justice budget is almost a historical commitment to the criminal justice system, I choose to look at it differently – because I see how many prisons are struggling, because I see how many people in the criminal justice system who end up or are struggling, because I see how many swinging door criminals this society creates. We now have a government that is committed to volunteering and that is engaged in the private initiative. So why in the world is it so hard to cough up the crowds of millions that need to give, for example. ATV, the FFO Rights Centre and the Student Rights Assistance Measures a safer future? This is a cheap investment. The community would have a lot left because the few million would require this. I don't understand that we can afford to throw millions after the richest of the country, while tiny investments seem to be able to overturn a fragile budget balance. Or is this an unwillingness? In the case of ATV, the government has ordered a book as one of ATV's psychologists, Marius Raakil, was the editor of, and shows that between 60 and 70 pst. by the perpetrators stop beating if they are treated. To point out that it's set at 1.5 million. I will characterise as petty, all the time this money has to go to a variety of violence prevention measures. And the Minister of Justice knows as well as I do that at least $3 million is needed. kr only for ATV to ensure that this offer can be further developed. I just don't understand that all the signals from psychologists, therapists, people in criminal custody and from the crisis center movement may have passed the Regeninga house. Or is the problem that one does not want to give priority to this, and therefore chooses to let them go for lye and cold water and live with an uncertainty that could cost us the best offer of violence in the country – perhaps in Europe? It is not that I believe these should have a monopoly on this, but according to the book that has been published now, and which the government has ordered, it is said that 1700 of the 2000 men who have been treated have gone to ATV. Shouldn't we bet on what's actually best? Then you can also bet on other things, but then we need more money. We have seen a number of cases in the last one where taxi drivers have committed acts of rape and violence against their passengers. Someone thought that especially young girls now had to take care of themselves to take a taxi alone. I'm terribly tired of having to take care of everything and all the time. Sometimes I think that we might as well put on a jar and sit at home on the sofa, so we don't both get exposed to anything and then get blamed for it later. We can even interpret a certain gentleman there that he believes this would be an appropriate alternative for Norwegian liberated women. We must be careful to make a picture of Norway, and Oslo in particular, as a haven for criminals. We have a responsibility to give a nuanced picture, to show that the violence in the few cases is totally blind, and that most of the violence is actually committed at home with people and/or in the affected state, that Norway is largely a safe country, and that most taxi drivers are elder-ridden people. I took a taxi home from Stortinget on Monday evening and asked what the mood is like in Oslo Taxi the day after all that happened. The taxi driver, one of the few white Norwegian specimens of the species, thought the breed hatred was growing. He used the word racehat, it's been a long time since I've heard that word. I asked if it's not like that that the vast majority of immigrant drivers are law-abiding, decent people. There are, after all, over 1,000 drivers with a migrant background in Oslo Taxi. He said that yes, that's right, but the other immigrants don't do enough to clean up their own rows. I asked if it was normal for Norwegian taxi drivers to arrange in their own white rows when a white driver has done something criminal. He didn't say much more, except that he had driven Simonsen home before me, and Simonsen at least thought that they should be thrown out of the country, which he sailed agreed with the heart. I believe it is our responsibility to stand for what is fair and wise, preferably in the long term, and that we should nuance. We're not putting people in a booth. We're going to show that there are differences between people, and maybe that's one of the most important things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e661	The representative of Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e666	No Marte Thorkildsen said she wanted a nuanced picture of what happened in the justice sector. Instead, we experience a dramatic and a dramatization that a dramaturg would be proud of. A month ago, the court administration opened in Trondheim. It was supposed to be an independent, independent court administration, as SV supported. Instead, we experience in the setting that SV and the Workers' Party describe in detail how to solve the sound conditions in Norwegian courts. In addition to this, there is also a requirement for new premises to a number of courts. Then the question is, has SV actually set aside money for this, and where is it set aside in the budget? SV has also proposed a number of things to strengthen the provision of criminal services. They propose faster criminal proceedings — faster than the Government and government parties are in favour. They suggest improved premises, better than government proposals, PCs to all prisoners, improved prison libraries, improved work environment, more employees because they want less overtime and better work environment, better follow-up of prisoners after release and increased training — all in addition to the Government rates. Government rate 9.3 pst. increase in order to address some of the deficiencies caused by former workers' party governments with SV's support in this case. There are major shortcomings in the budget submitted by SV, whether we should deal with the Norwegian level of costs. In addition, the SV is very sceptical that tasks can be put off for competition, so that this also reduces the available framework in a way. So the input of funds that SV has in its budget is not a matter of intervention, and then everything that is said becomes empty promises without content.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e675	On the contrary, I would say that we are more realistic and more responsible than what the Government was in its budget. It is the government that has provided some guidance on how fast the process should be, for example, how to cut down the queues, etc. So it's the government that hasn't delivered in that connection. Now the Progress Party was able to get 10 million. extra kr for criminal services and 5 million. extra to the courts. Fair enough, but we've invested 57.9 million. extra kr to the police and 15 mill. kr to the courts, in addition to SEK 15 million. to the conflict councils that will also reduce the queue, for example, and some legal aid measures that may prevent some cases from ending in court. In fact, I believe that we have a very realistic budget option as opposed to the Government. We have set about the same goals for how we can implement this, but we have allowed the money to follow. That's the problem. What may irritate me most about the government we have is that there are very, very many great, fine words, but there is little action. It's not much money, and I also think that the Progress Party will sign it. Now, of course, the Progress Party has an extremely large amount of money for the justice sector and an extremely large amount of money for the most part, but we have now given priority to spending money in the areas where we see that it is the most lacking. In particular, it is criminal services and courts, it is in relation to the conflict councils and part of the legal aid measures, among others. We think these are important parts. I have to say that I think that the representative, Mr Dybevig, should be a little bit more involved in how the administration of the Court of Justice should be handled too, because that is the way in which the Storting should manage this through the budget and through the signals we provide in the budget. Otherwise, we believe that they should be allowed to operate fairly freely in relation to both the department and the magnificence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e682	I asked the Workers' Party and Gunn Karin Gjul questions about the prisoner transport and about the Workers' Party there was drifting. If you're going to deal with the Ten's consent, at least the Workers' Party is on the run. It is in itself that SV wants to appear more principleal than the Workers' Party, but I must nevertheless be able to ask the SV also the question all the time they spend with the Workers' Party about the comment. To refresh the memory of the representative Thorkildsen, I can take the quote again: ‘These members are of the opinion that the transport of prisoners is an authority task. Such transport may result in the use of power, which these members consider to be reserved to police officers». At the same time, they say: ‘However, these members consider it positive that, as part of the pilot project now being launched, efforts are being made to use civil servants to perform such services.’;» My question is, do you mean something in principle, but choose to do something else, or are you drifting? Does SV think that this is an authority task that the police basically and necessarily have to do, or do they think what's at the bottom, that you want to test out also in relation to civil servants?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e699	I'm going to answer quite briefly this question. This is that we do not want it to be put on the market for civil service companies to make money on this. What we want is a system similar to that, for example. arrest warrants that are not police trained but are nevertheless in controlled forms. We think it is a matter of concern, for example. Securitas guards were supposed to carry prisoners, among others. because it can cause you to have to use power. At the same time, we see that there is a problem that the police are using very large parts of their capacity and their resources on this, so we want to be something flexible to try and find solutions that can relieve the police to some extent. But then it's not going to be civil society, it's going to be. an arrangement similar to the one you now have in relation to detention.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e704	I think there's a lot of positive in SV's justice policy. In many areas, we are united in defending the views that I think it is important to get an impact on the Norwegian community and get a greater sense of it. But there is some of what SV says in this setting, which concerns me somewhat. I'm not least thinking about what's going on with non-governmental organisations. SV says that the voluntary organisations are positive, and the representative Thorkildsen said in his main post that this was about cheap investments, for which it would be understood that there would be a lot of money left. However, both the SV and the Labour Party consider in the vote that ‘the existence of religious offerings in the area of criminal responsibility must not lead to a reduction in the freedom of choice for users in reality, and that public responsibility must in no way be weakened or eroded as a result of such organisations’ taking on tasks for which the public is initially responsible’. Then comes a sentence that I agree with, but the context makes me unable to join it: ‘These members consider it very important to have a thorough control and quality assurance of the use of government grants.’ In addition, the note states: ‘At the same time, these members ask the Government to ensure that religious organisations are not paid at the expense of other non-religious organisations, where they have an equally good offer.’ My question is: is the reason for pointing out and drawing out the religious offerings that they have their origins in religious people and the commitment of organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e723	This round we had last year as well. It's fun to see that we're repeating our sails. The reason for this is simply that we see that this is needed; there is a need for control of the use of public funds. Of course. I believe that Mr Marthinsen fully agrees with that. But we also believe that there must be limits to how many religious entries we should have in a field if that means that non-religious offers are being pushed out, for example. in the field of criminal law. This means that if prisoners who want follow-up afterwards cannot get a non-religious offer, it is a problem. Does the representative Marthinsen not think that it is a problem if that is the case at the end? We have asked questions about who has received money from the Ministry of Justice in this area. We have received an overview of the applications that have been granted. I have to say that I was somewhat concerned when I read that overview, because it's the City Mission Centre, it's the Pinsevenne, it's the Pinsamneiten, it's the Salvation Army, it's the Marita Foundation, it's the Church's Prison Work, it's the Forum for Christian Work in Criminal Welfare, it's Prison Fellowship and a whole bunch of other organizations. Then I look at the list of those who have been rejected, and there are a good deal of good measures that have been rejected, including. DIXI, which is for raped women. Then I also believe that you could have invested more strongly, for example. on some individual measures, e.g.: ‘Life after atonement’. It is a very important measure that we from the Workers' Party and the SV have added extra money, 1 million. kr, because we think it's important. We've also given 1 million. kr extra to the Church's Social Service. So it is not that we believe that anything that is Christian or religious is vinegar. What we think is that there must be a proper quality assurance of them, and that it should not be that the total of religious organizations in this field pushes out non-religious offers, so that there is actually less freedom of choice for the prisoners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e730	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e733	‘... the efforts for drug problemrs in Norwegian prisons are weakened’, writes the Knut Storberget Labour Party in a chronicle in Dagbladet on 2 December. It would have been if it were true. But the truth is that the government is increasing its efforts to get prisoners out of prison next year. More must be transferred to so-called § 12 zoning. Could it really be that the representative of Storberget has not read the Government's draft budget? ‘It is totally unacceptable and dangerous that, among other things: rape victims or others must be released from custody due to a lack of detention places despite the existence of a detectable risk of recurrence.» Knut Storberget said this during an interpellation debate this spring. However, in the budget configuration of the Judicial Committee, the Labour Party polemises over the Government's efforts to bring down the pay queue and highlights the content of the remuneration as the central one. Yes, content is important! But atonement also involves punishment. Punishment is the consequence of criminal acts. Consequences must follow the action, but the Christian People's Party is concerned that the consequence should be meaningful. We know that the individual preventive effect of the punishment depends largely on the closeness of the punishment to action and judgment. But for the Workers' Party now, compensation seems to be equivalent to rehabilitation. It's like I almost understand a 180 degree revolution in the party's judicial policy from the previous period to the present. The Christian People's Party manages to have multiple thoughts in its head at once. We want to strengthen the courts in order to reduce the length of proceedings. We want to increase the prison capacity to reduce the pay queue. A faster criminal chain is important. But it is equally important to improve the quality of criminal services. I am proud that the Government has given the criminal service priority in the 2003 budget. Budgetary growth is probably 9 pst. I guess you're going back a long way to find the corresponding example. We know that the quality of settlement has a direct impact on relapses into crime. That is why it is right and important to bet on support for drug withdrawal training during prisons, providing good health care to those such as drug users. Strives with mental illness organisation for work, housing and positive social community after end of residence For the Christian People's Party, program development in criminal care is a matter of heart. The composition of the convict population changes over time. Needs are changing and therefore the provision of rehabilitation needs to be adapted and improved. For the Christian People's Party, the rehabilitation aspect of the punishment is very important. That is exactly why I am pleased that the Justice Committee asks the Government to assess the establishment of a so-called university prison in Bergen. It's supposed to be a collaboration between Bergen Prison and the University of Bergen. The undersigned, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, took up these interesting thoughts in an interview with the Minister of Justice last spring, after the committee heard about the idea during the visit to Bergen in prison. A prerequisite for good criminal care is the continued development and improvement of programmes and measures that can be used against convicted offenders. For us politicians, it is often easy to forget that criminal care is largely and necessary complemented by voluntary action. Visitors’ arrangements and events inside and outside prisons help relatives and others to facilitate the daily lives of prisoners. This effort is invaluable. I would also like to highlight the valuable efforts directed at prisoners' relatives and, among other things, their families. carried out by the Fangers' Family Association. The Christian People's Party is also very positive in the preparatory work presented by many non-governmental organisations through the Joint Action "New Life". This is a programme that helps prisoners to choose a life without drug abuse and crime and has led to a radical reduction in the repetition of criminal offences in other countries. Crime must be prevented by a wide range of efforts on the part of children and young people. Sufficient resources shall be allocated to the police for the arrest of offenders. Good criminal law should provide justice with tools to judge criminals. The dependants shall be taken care of both during the investigation phase and during judicial proceedings. And through the criminal justice system, the convicted people have to deal with themselves while being rehabilitated into a law-abiding life through self-help and qualified help. Ambitious, yes, but in criminal matters there are no easy solutions! The organisation of good growth conditions locally through leisure activities, school and home are among the conditions that the Christian People's Party has always put in focus. We also want police prevention to be strengthened, and we have called for this. But one is certain: if we are to prevent our children and grandchildren from committing crime, we need first of all present adults who care and who stand up. Do we have the power to be such adults?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e781	The representative Marthinsen began his speech by saying that he was proud of what was in the budget in relation to having more §12 soning and help for those who have drug problems in prison. The representative Holstad took up in his reply to Ellingsen that the alcohol is the problem in relation to a lot of our crime. Greece was also in the same situation. The research shows us that 70 pst. by the violence in society is being perpetrated in a state of intoxication, and we know that 200,000 children are struggling with their parents' drug problems. Then I have a question. I know that the Christian People's Party usually sees the connection between alcohol and alcohol and the development of crime. So the second year in a row now is a Christian People's Party in a government that lowers the price of alcohol. You've had a rush at the store. The availability has improved, and the price has fallen. Is it not also seen that this will increase crime in the future? And then I ask: I know that the government has put forward an action plan against drugs, and I know that the government has made a poverty package, but what other new and forward-looking measures does the government now have in its sleeve, once it has released on one side? We know that there will be increasing crime, so what do you do in the future? Does the Christian People's Party have any measures that they can now reveal, or is it also there completely pointless?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e788	No one has to be in doubt that it is not the Christian People's Party's proposal that has been implemented when you get easier access to alcohol. But we are in a context where the Christian People's Party does not have a majority in this Chamber. We try to participate in the creation of a majority, and then we have to get the majority where we can find it, and then we have to get an overall assessment of the offers and opportunities that exist. In this case, we are in a context where we clearly see that with easier access to alcohol can lead to new and greater adverse effects. I fully agree with Mr Rui. That's why the government has also granted $5 million. in the context of this facilitation of preventive action. It's not clear what these means are going to, you can't say it goes to one or another organisation, or that or that. For the Christian People’s Party, however, it is important to view the family as an area where positive attitudes are important. Therefore, not least the family policy of the Christian People's Party is an area that we strongly support, by giving families the opportunity to design their everyday lives themselves, giving them freedom of choice as to what kind of public solutions they want to go into. We've remedied the possibilities because we trust the parents. With regard to the other things that the representative Rui asked about, I didn't see that it was very explicit, and that's why this is my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e795	The cord shift is... No Marte Thorkildsen gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e800	I'm sorry I was a little slow. I honestly believed that the Progress Party would also have a line, but I was wrong. My question goes on this with § 12 zoning and making sure that all prisoners with drug problems will receive a similar offer when they come out of prison. Now it is announced that the care of Russo will be taken over by the state. I wonder if the Christian People's Party can guarantee that when the state takes over this, all prisoners who have drug problems will be assured to continue the treatment they have started when they leave prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e807	It is an intention to provide help to all those who have different types of problems when they go to prison. This also applies to drug problems. Therefore, the Government of this budget has also indicated that it is expected to increase what goes on in Section 12. A very important point the representative points out is the relationship between the programme you start in prison and what must continue after release. The Christian People's Party will do what we can to ensure that this relationship is not broken, that you can have continuity so that what begins during the atonement can be completed when you are released. Of course, there's nothing you can promise from Storting's pulpit, because there's a lot of things about it. But it is nevertheless an intention that we should do this. And I hope and believe that in the spirit of cooperation we will also be able to do this. Whether this can happen immediately, I'll be careful to express great thoughts about, but the intention is that what the representative asks me about will be implemented. And the Christian People's Party has an explicit objective that we will contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e812	I listen with interest to Finn Kristian Marthinsen's posts, not least the emphasis he has on the fight against drug use reduction, and the context there in relation to power and crime. So I'm surprised to see that he's saying he's sorry that there's no plurality in the Storting for a more restrictive policy in this area. In fact, a number of different settings have now emerged, in the treatment of several specialised budgets, that there would be both another plurality for a strengthened prevention work – I don't least think of the local authorities' possibilities for it – and there would be another plurality of anti-transaction measures when it comes to drugs, if the Christian People's Party had stood at its former positions. The latter was expressed in the social committee's position that the noise should now be released into the shops. At that time, the Christian People's Party was not willing to go for 20 years of age or to ask the Government to outsource measures to prevent translation. What is it that makes the Christian People's Party here find support for the Advance Party, but it makes it like they don't have a choice, because there isn't another plurality? So to § 12 zoning and Marthinsen's answers to the questions he got about it. What is my Marthinsen missing, when he so strongly emphasizes his intention, but does not give the impression of believing that there will be an equivalent offer across the country? Are there funds missing, or are there other measures, other instruments, that need to be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e821	With regard to the last question from the representative Meltveit Kleppa, this was not the case with the §12 soning that was the problem. The problem was the continuation of what has been initiated by programs while in prison, when you are released and transferred to civil society, whether that continuity can last. And that's where at the moment I can't deliver it someone would well call an adequate answer. With regard to the second piece, what goes on a majority in this Chamber, the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa of the first Bondevik government knows that when you join a community in a minority government that is a minority government and you have to seek a majority for budgets, you also have a responsibility in relation to the commitment you make by joining alliances. It is clear that the Christian People's Party, in isolation, naturally wants the kind of policy that could be involved and support the individual measures to which the representative referred. But in the Community context in which we stand, and with the responsibility we have assumed to be solidarity, with the fact that we are in a government, it will be devastating and government-dissolved to go into such individual things. I think the representative Meltveit Kleppa knows that very well from his time in the previous Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e828	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e831	The Central Party has not been represented in the Judicial Committee. When it comes to our whole-hearted review in relation to this budget, I refer to the financial situation on page 84 and the supplementary position. But I would like to mention five points in my article, for the first prevention. Prevention is easier and cheaper than repair. It's in the municipalities people cage. It is precisely in the pre-emptive work that many local people now see themselves content to cut. The centre party is pleased with all the positive words that have been used for prevention in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The more surprising we are that the government party and the Progress Party do not see the open relationship between local economy and prevention. Major classes, fewer teachers, out with social teachers and other support functions, more expensive school-time arrangements – all this is the result of the decisions that are now being taken in the autumn in this area. When local authorities still lack 5 billion kroner, it means that fewer children and young people are seen and included. Alcohol and drug policies are given special attention also in municipalities. Firstly, there is a driving road in this area — strengthening culture, volunteering, as well as schooling and leisure or otherwise. Secondly, treatment and aftercare: those who have been admitted to prison hope that the municipalities can provide a holistic approach. A state-of-the-art community economy is also a dilemma in relation to the lack of protection. Thirdly, the control of access: unfortunately, the government has now been required to comply with ESA when it comes to noise, with the result that it has to be able to strengthen the prevention work. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to pay particular attention to good cooperation models locally, both on the prevention and on the follow-up work in relation to after-sales protection. There are some municipalities that are good here when it comes to cooperation with youth, parents, school, business, social and health services and police, and there are certainly some of these models that have transfer value. My third point is the police's work. The Central Party proposes 46 million in its alternative budget. extra to the police. And we are pleased to record that all parties in the Justice Committee have strengthened the police. We want more visible police in the streets – we know it seems crime-preventing, and we know that it means faster reactions when something happens. We are calling for the outcome of the police reform. The main argument for it was just more police officers out in the street, fewer service people in administrative settings. We thought there was now a disturbing announcement, last in the Newspaper on 26 November from former assistant police officers in Asker and Bærum, who called the police reform a blow in the air. He says that he thinks we will experience an increased distance between the police and the audience. Chief Sjursen of Haugesund has come with a nude call. He now wants to recruit unskilled workers into the settings in the area for which he is responsible. Now there are extra funds in the budget to ensure police high school students work after they have finished their work. I would like to invite the Council of State to comment on whether more can be done to spread the newly-exploited police around the country. My fourth point is transparency. Here is a very important and good proposal from the Working Party and SV to extend the access time for their own folder. [[President clubs]] I'll get back to it in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e844	As Minister of Justice, I focus a lot on the criminal chain. It is important that the police, the prosecution authority, the courts and the criminal services function well as a whole chain of criminal proceedings. The government prioritizes the criminal justice system, while facilitating continued high levels of police intervention in the 2003 state budget. I record and note that during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, the budget for the criminal action chain has increased by 61 million. kr. With this, the majority has chosen to further strengthen the criminal chain – both police, criminal justice and courts. The parole queue for unconditional imprisonment was 2,509 judges per year. 30 September 2002. I meet this challenge by implementing a number of actions. The number of settlement sites shall be increased. In 2002, 11 places are to be established in Trondheim, and in the case of new Kongswinger prisons 40 open places are to be used. In 2003, the capacity of Kongswinger prisons, including old Kongswinger prisons and some duplication, will increase to about 110 places. The government is proposing to grant $28 million. kr from the Ministry of Labour and Administration budget lines for the planning of 90 new custody sites in Bergen and a new prison in Halden with 251 new places. For both of these constructions, it is set up for the design and then open tendering round, allowing private access to construction. At the same time as the budget facilitates significant growth in the number of settlements, I emphasise the value of the value of the content of the settlement to make the prisoners better fit to meet society after release. The budget has been strengthened to make the system of pro-mille programmes an alternative to unconditional prison sentences nationwide. We facilitate the transfer of more prisoners with drug problems to settlement in institutions and strengthen measures for violently convicted men. In addition, the budget has been strengthened to maintain the high number of aspirants at the educational centre of criminal services and to be able to raise more aspirants from the harvest. The Social Penalty is a new main penalty. The social penalty is expected to be an important tool for preventing new crime and could also contribute to the reduction of the pay queue. The government's draft budget also increases the amount of money spent on the courts. The operational budget has been strengthened to increase case resolution capacity and to cover expenditure on reform work in the courts, including: the work of reducing the number of first instance courts from 92 to 66. The budget has also been strengthened in connection with a new thinghouse in Tromsø. Friday 1 November 2002 was a historic day in the Norwegian judiciary. Then the decision of the Stortinget to set up an independent court administration was realized in Trondheim. I have no doubt that the establishment of the administration of the Court of Justice will strengthen and confirm the independence of the courts, because the Ministry of Justice will no longer govern the courts administratively. At the same time, the establishment of the Court of Justice will pose challenges. The division of tasks shall be clarified and forms of cooperation established. My justice policy shall be coordinated and coherent and contribute to increasing legal certainty while respecting the independence of the courts. I am pleased that it now appears that we can see the results of the efforts we have had on the police for several years. The average clearance rate has increased in recent years and the average time of handling of notifications has decreased. The government strengthens the police budget so that the department can offer 100 new graduates from this year’s high school police work in the building. Funding has also been provided for police additional expenditure in the field of asylum and alienation. Oslo Police District is strengthened as part of the Government’s overall effort to combat drug abuse, and funds have been made available for helicopter services to the police from 1 September 2003. The Government proposes to increase the appropriation for further work on a common mobile radio network for emergency budgets based on the TETRA standard. The pilot project in the Trondheim area is to be continued for the first half of 2003. The rescue helicopters are a cornerstone of the rescue service. The Ministry of Justice shall assume budgetary responsibility for the State rescue helicopter service from 2004 onwards. The base pattern of the 330-square, including the base of Banak, is maintained. Further work is being done on the establishment of a civil base in Florø. The appropriations for social security and preparedness have been reinforced by exceptional appropriations since 11 September 2001. A high level of activity is continued in the 2003 budget. Government promoted in St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 a number of proposals for organisational measures to strengthen civil security in society. The measures will be followed up in accordance with the examination by the Storting of the notification by the two cooperating committees of the Justice Committee and the joint opinion of the Defence Committee. The Government proposes to raise the income limit in order to obtain legal aid free of charge and to abolish the excess as of 1 September 2003 so that more will be covered by the scheme than before. The Ministry of Justice will set up a resumption commission in criminal matters from 1 September 2003. The Commission will strengthen the legal certainty of individuals by their autonomy and the ability to intervene in previous criminal proceedings. And it's with pleasure I realize how strongly the committee expresses its agreement on this point. The Ministry of Justice will work to increase the number of cases dealt with in the conflict councils. There is both a potential crime prevention effect in this and a relieving of the judiciary, which is important. In many cases, the conflict councils are also well suited as a response form to young offenders. It is important for me to present a budget in which the response to the social problem of violence is reinforced. Many victims of violence are women. An important boost to the fight against violence is that we launch the work of a new action plan ‘Violence against women’. We're going to focus on women, but at the same time we're going to put a much stronger spotlight on violent men and on children who grow up in violent homes. Just the children of violent homes have so far been the most invisible in the work against family violence. The majority will soon deal with a number of issues in order to combat violence. These include both a restraining order, a fictitious identity and a number of other practical and important proposals. The government has made plans to combat violence such as sexual mutilation and forced marriage against women with a minority background. With its actions, the government has taken important steps towards a society in which, hopefully, less will be affected by violence. It is a disturbing trend for more and more children and young people to be targeted for crimes. The government is working to strengthen its efforts to prevent child and youth crime. Children who commit serious crimes must have a rapid and clear response. The government has in Ot.prp. No 106 for 2001-2002 proposed a six-week time limit for the prosecution of cases of 15-18 years of age. The police are required to give priority to prevention among children and young people and to take borderline measures to prevent children from developing criminal behaviour. In order to succeed in what will be a long and continuous effort to prevent crime among children and young people, it is important that schools, child protection, police and parents cooperate in a good and constructive way for the benefit of young people and society. Yes, we must work well for each of us, but at the same time continue to work to strengthen administrative cooperation. To meet the challenge of organised crime for the justice sector, a number of measures have been taken. The Council for the Coordination of Organised Crime (ROC) is an important piece of this work. The Council shall prioritise, coordinate and organise specific research projects. CATCH is a project that is subject to the ROC and is designed to fight backmen in serious drug crime, smuggling and money laundering – and I have to add what we call trafficking, which is also in the 2003 budget proposal. ROK and CATCH can show good results. The important work of these two projects will be continued in 2003. In the near future, the Ministry of Justice will present an action plan to strengthen the fight against trafficking in women and children for sexual exploitation – what we call trafficking, but we can also call it the modern slave trade. Cross-border traffic is an increasing problem and an example of how organised crime contributes to humiliating individuals and breaking human rights. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have jointly established a three-year anti-corruption and money laundering project. The aim of the work is to give priority to the fight against corruption and money laundering in Norway, and Norway is to play an active role in the development of international cooperation and conventions in this area. The Ministry of Justice is putting forward proposals for new provisions on organised crime in the criminal law and will come back to the Stortingen case. It is important to stress that while some of our challenges in justice policy are clear, we will have our adaptability and adaptability tested in other areas. We have a good starting point for doing that through budget and organisation. Let me also sum this up in the following way: the main objective of justice policy is to prevent crime, both by preventing someone from getting into it, and then by helping those who have gotten into it, out of it, and the possibility of getting back. This applies, inter alia, to: people who are struggling with intoxication, but also many others. And it's effective control. If I'm going to formulate my vision card, since vision is demanded, I'm going to do it the following way: Point 1 is systematic and consistent to follow the backbone of organised crime, which cynically leaves wrecks of people on the road, through its trafficking of drugs, alcohol smuggling, arms smuggling and slave trafficking of children and women. Point 2 is to give the invisible, those who lack a voice, one voice in addition, whether there are many victims of violence, relatives, people who struggle to get their foot attached to charity because they're drunk, or children who fight to avoid getting away from criminal behaviour. Many of these haven't seen enough, space enough, or been seen enough in society. It is a vision for me that they should be given an extra vote through justice policy. Let me say it this way: the humanity of justice policy, the person who is about preventing and preventing someone from returning, is exactly where justice policy and social policy meet. I can assure the Storting that precisely keeping good administrative cooperation with the social authorities, the health authorities and the school authorities will give me a great deal of emphasis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e917	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e920	Through the debate today, and also by listening to the input of the Council of State, there is no doubt that Dørum is trying to cover up the fact that he has actually lost the fight internally in the Government on the money for the police. He's pretty good at wrapping it up. And the government parties are trying all the time in the debate today to defend themselves by blaming former governments and the workers' party government. What you have to start asking questions about is when is this government going to start taking responsibility for what's going on, for example. in criminal matters? They are also trying in the debate today to present it as if it were the Workers' Party that has made a criminal policy shift. From a management article in Dagbladet on 16 June of this year entitled «Different Dørum Tones», which refers to Dørum’s proposal to increase the punishment limit from 21 to 30 years of imprisonment, the following is quoted: ‘We believe that such a proposal would run counter to the liberal and humane thinking that has so far been at the root of our justice. It surprises us that it is presented by the Left politician Dørum with a background in the Church's City Mission." There is no doubt that Dagbladet is not an organ of the Norwegian Workers' Party, nor is it more known for respecting old Left traditions. I guess it's pretty clear that those who have changed him are Odd Einar Doors and the government parties, especially those on the left, the ones that are in the center. Another aspect that needs to be asked is the criticism that is now being voiced against domestic reconciliation. It was first proposed by the Bondevik I Government and the Council of State there. What's happened when you're suddenly so critical of home reconciliation? Is it the Progress Party that has also had political influence in this area? It was the only party that was against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e934	State Council Odd Einar Dørum – the President will note that he is of the opinion that from the pulpit of the Stortinge should state councils titulate the state councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e937	After that little clarification: The representative Gjul is still insisting that I lose matches that she obviously has little insight into assessing how is going on. The only thing she can assess, and which is the situation in Stortinget, is what comes out of a budget. And what came out in a budget was the government's will and my willingness to move a smaller amount from the police to strengthen the criminal justice system. When it happened, it was for a whole in the criminal case chain. There's nothing that seems more devastating about the possibility of being rehabilitated than being in a shelter for a long time. That's why it's important that you have enough places to live, and that you have the content of what's going on. When it comes to change in politics, I've written a response to the newspaper, where I try to prove that it's tough against different kinds of crime while you're going to have an open mind so that people have a chance to come back once they've settled up, I've actually been doing it for a long number of years. I'm not going to go into what's the difference between the Workers' Party's judicial fraction in this magnification period and in the previous one. I'll leave that to those who read the documents to assess. On the other hand, my own policy has been so that I have kept this line of being tough and consistent against organized crime and at the same time be able to give a voice to those who have been invisible in society. I can repeat what it is, among other things. applies. This applies to those who are subjected to violence, especially at home, in many forms, in the case of children, and to those who are in need, among other things. the people treated with a lack of dignity and respect. I strongly support being a Minister of Justice – now as in the past – to ensure that administrative cooperation takes place. So it's a two-part policy. In one way, people need to know that it is being strictly responded to by those who abuse the trust of society in violence, profit and moral abuse. On the other hand, people need to know that they have a chance to make up for themselves when they first take the punishment. This two-part line I've stood for before, and I still stand for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e950	President, first of all, congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e955	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e958	In my reply to the Council of State, I intend to focus on the relations between the Council of State and the Stortinget. I have repeatedly recorded that the Council of State has said that there may always be differences of opinion between the department and the Council of State, and what the Government decides. But he's always concluded that it's the Storting that actually decides. I appreciate that he draws that conclusion. Something else would have been quite surprising. Of course, there is also the expectation that the Council of State and the Ministry will follow up the decisions taken by the Stortinget. And that's the background for my question. Because it is that there is a variable majority in the Judicial Committee and thereby also in the Storting. My expectation is that the Council of State, irrespective of who the majority consists of, will follow up the decisions taken. What I am calling for in this way is for a majority decision taken in this Chamber in our Chamber on free legal aid, where they asked for this to be inserted from 1 January 2003. The government has not found room for that. Thus, no room has been found to accommodate a majority as long as it consisted of the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, in terms of that increase, but it is done from the autumn of 2003. Then my question becomes: is it that it is easier for the Minister of Justice to say yes to majority remarks when the government parties are involved, and that several times heavier when the opposition is? Or is it such that one can expect loyalty from the Minister of Justice, regardless of who the majority consists of?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e967	Of course, Storting's decision counts, regardless of who's behind the decisions. At the moment you break that principle, there will be natural reactions in the staging room. As far as the issue of free legal aid is concerned, the Government has taken the consequences, among other things. in the agreement concluded with the Progress Party, with subsidiary support at the beginning of the year, that it is not possible to impose burdens on the budgets of later years as part of a different procedure. That agreement was not in force last year. But it is a fact that what was adopted on free legal aid, in many ways, came next to all the other budgetary work. I was prepared to follow it up. But we made it clear what we could do within our economic framework. That is why we proposed 1 September. Should I have been the right fight, and I never meant to be, I would have taken a fight to eliminate the excess and rematch the whole system. I didn't, precisely because I'm basing what the representative is Ellingen's basic relationship here, namely that one has to follow the decision of the Stortinge. But then I have to make a balance as the Council of State in relation to the resources we have at our disposal. Then I can only see how the Storting has dealt with this. It's like that line the Government has put up here, has secured a majority in the Biggest. Then it must mean that the Storting has all decided to accept what has now happened, because they have chosen to see the budget as a whole. But the excesses are abolished and the legal limit is raised. This happens correctly, as the representative Ellings himself has said, at a later date, namely 1 September 2003, than the majority's assumption and wish, on 1 January 2003, but the Stortinge itself has had the opportunity to govern it through the budgetary procedure. I am, of course, also loyal to the budgetary procedure that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e976	President, congratulations on the day from me too! The answer given by the Dørum State Council here, I do not think it is satisfactory. It is clear that we had to accept that the postponement will be implemented, because we do not have as many millions of dollars as the Progress Party has, which has put this into its alternative budget. This costs – as far as I remember – about 80 million. kr. I think it costs more than that. It's expensive. And if we were to prioritize criminal care, we couldn't deposit money for free legal aid. But I think that if this was a proposal that the government parties had wanted to support, it would of course have been submitted from 1 January. It bears witness to a certain rudeness, I would say, to postpone this until 1 September and then, as well, to push responsibility over to the Stortinget in relation to prioritizing this here, when it comes to as much money as it does. But I was actually going to ask a question about doubling, placing more inmates on individual cells. In a letter from the State Health Authority dated 30 November 2001, the State Health Authority states that: ‘do not recommend that two or more prisoners be placed in the same room and that this applies even if the toilet is not located inside the cell. The reason is that from a health point of view, it is unfortunate that prisoners are deprived of the possibility of a private life. It also conflicts with the purpose of incarceration, which is rehabilitation. They are physically ill, with 25-50% of prisoners suffering from mental illness, often in association with drug abuse.’ They continue to write: ‘We have not taken a position on situations with two on one cell in very short prison sentences, for example for per mille convicted or similar with good physical and mental health.’ Then my question to the Council of State is, are there only these that will have to divide the cell when the Government now enters for doubling as part of combating the reconciliation queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e997	First, about the trial case. It is a fact that it took place in addition to the standard revised national budget and outside the ordinary budgetary procedure. As far as I remember, the cost of doing it is 56 million. kr. So it would have been quite possible for the representative of Thorkildsen to give priority to this action. Because here the law of nature means that when a budget is to be provided, priority must be given to it. This is true of the Government, and of course it is also true of the opposition, because the framework is determined by the Storting in the way you do. I have chosen to make a priority as I have done, accept a decision and make sure it is phased in, but it will be phased in later. But the 56 million. kr is full coverage for prioritising e.g. within the budgetary framework of the Judicial Committee, if one wished to do something about it. You have that choice no matter where you sit. When it comes to doubling, my starting point is what it's been all along, that we're going to use it to a limited extent and very carefully, and always for health, environmental and safety reasons. It's always going to be crucial. This has been taken into account in the past when using it. You had a careful double line when you had cows at the beginning of the 1990s. I do not intend to change the basic principles that should be justified in every case, when that is the case. That means that if we had ignored such considerations, we could eliminate the reconciliation queues on a wink by duplicating. But that's not the line I stand for. There must always be health, environmental and safety considerations that count when considered in the specific case and in the specific institution. It's a line I've given you in the past, and it's a line that will also be continued. The result will be a very limited and very moderate use of this form of reconciliation, as demonstrated by written replies to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1004	Mr President, it would be strange if the Christian People's Party were not in the ranks of the congratulations. It's done. I have been very concerned about the abuse of children in the work of the Justice Committee. And the Stortinge has decided to create a Barnecryptus. This is as far as I know, established by the criminal police. We write in the setting that the “Kripos” unit for the control of child pornography makes a very good effort with the resources they have available. We also write that the establishment of Barnecryptos was intended to ‘enhance the police's knowledge of the treatment of criminal offences involving child abuse’. At one of the officers' offices in Buskerud, a police officer came from Kripos. The politicians involved did a very good job, in the sense that she had both eyes and ears for, and for all I know, perhaps also nose for, to smell up to where there were other problems associated with what was presented, precisely in relation to Barnekripos, because she had background from there. My question to Minister of Justice Dørum is about how the Minister of Justice thinks this unit works, in order to get the knowledge out to the various police districts and to the individual county offices. Is this something that is taken seriously, and is the necessary resources given?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1016	The President is pleased that congratulations should not be added to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1019	My question is really in what form the congratulations are, and what it is all about. We can clarify this in a different way than from the Storting's pulpit. But I expect that the committee wants itself and the people to be happy that they get a good budget! With regard to the question that the representative Marthinsen raises, I do not have per. a detailed overview of it today. But it has always been on the basis that the assumptions of the Storting expressed about Barnecryptus should be followed up. I want to make sure about it, not only in this area, but also in other areas where both the Government and the Stortinget have wanted to increase the build-up of their competences in the police. This applies, for example: family violence coordinators, for whom there was a recent conference, including political leadership in the Ministry of Justice, and in economic crime and other areas. What I can say to the representative is that at the moment that we incorporate the Children's Convention into Norwegian law, we will also look at provisions relating to child pornography, so that we should be better able to respond to this. And I share the representative's view that coming up with this problem that he's taking up here, to life, requires enhanced competence, because you have to be experienced and wise enough to see what's going on, so that you can react in a timely manner. I want to address this question, and I want to find a suitable way to report back to Stortinget, both in the case of Barnecryptus, and in the case of other build-up of police competence. The aim of the police reform is precisely to – in addition to what many have had to do with the release of people from administrative posts to active police services – to enable them to build specific competences where important through the districts. And this crime against children, which the representative has brought up, is one of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1028	I'm going to ask the council two questions. The first applies to the fight against violence, and above all to women's elections. It could be presented as a failure statement that the central government had to present its own action plan against violence in society. It was most necessary, and unfortunately it is also necessary to have a women's own selection. One of the measures in the action plan presented in 1999 was a careful funding of crisis centres. I would like the Council of State to comment on the fact that crisis centres, as the important element they are, both for the women it owes and, unfortunately, when it comes to prevention, have not yet received adequate funding. My second point concerns the transparency laws and the proposal that is currently being made to extend the transparency period by two years, so that the laws on transparency in own folders will remain in force until 2005. The centre party intends to support that proposal. We thought it was very important, and that there are obvious grounds that speak for such an extension. We are very surprised that a government council from the Left – a party that has produced itself as close to being in a special position when it comes to openness and transparency – rejects such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1037	With regard to the action plan against violence in society, I can only acknowledge a past that I had in common with the then government council, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, as it was necessary to make the action plan that was made, precisely because it had been kept invisible, not for the many engaged and not for the many activists, but at the large, central, public political level. And it is necessary to continue the action plan. At those points, we just have to admit that many people have to be made visible, they have to get a voice. There I have a past that I fully acknowledge, and a future that I intend to fight with glow. Of course, in the case of crisis centres, the representative knows that it does not belong to me constitutionally, but of course I know very well the importance and importance of crisis centres. And just what the Women's Violence Committee to which the representative refers has got to look at as its decadence at a permanent and good funding for crisis centres. They themselves have asked for a postponement of it, and I have had to follow it, but I expect that we will. We have to find arrangements that make the centres secure, and then I get to follow it on in an appropriate way, without saying more from the Greatness Chair. As far as the Transparency Act is concerned, it was always meant to be temporary. It must be seen in relation to the fact that the Storting has also – rightly – created a separate sample, an EOS selection, which has no limitation in its scope of functions in terms of transparency and which, among other things, has. reports to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Storting also address individual cases. With the transparency law that we have, there is full opportunity until 31 December to ask for transparency. It's very easy to do it. It's having a form and writing a name. There are information phones set up. And because there's also been attention to a lot of things with a Sami background, this is also, of course, announced in Sami. It has been announced that even those who turn to that language will be properly served when they use the phone that is there. It is therefore possible to use the Transparency Act until 31 December. Moreover, the Stortinget has set up the EOS Committee – an excellent scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1046	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1049	President: The start must be: Congratulations on the 55th anniversary! The framework of the budget for justice was decided last year by the Government in cooperation with the Progress Party. This confirms that the Progress Party remains the parliamentary basis of this government. First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the pro-mille programme is now becoming a permanent scheme throughout the country. This will, hopefully, mean that a lot more of those who really have alcohol problems get help when they are taken for driving under the influence of alcohol. That even next year's budget settlement makes alcohol cheaper, I am deeply sorry. Those who work with the troubles out on the street here in Oslo are very clear that the angle of entry to the beginning of a russian career is that they start with alcohol. That availability and price have a lot to say for a negative development, is well known to all. That a lot of crime and violence is carried out in a drunken state is a reality. As this budget has now become, the development of crime in our society will increase, and it goes into the government with open eyes. That the Christian People's Party can be involved in doing this is incredible to me. From 2003, we have a new court administration that holds in exciting old premises in Trondheim. They face a major challenge in securing future appropriate sites for the mergers that are now to take place in the courts. These courts shall not only be accessible to disabled persons and persons with hearing impairment, but there shall also be a plan for further development in respect of human and technical resources required in the courts in order to keep the time limits set and to keep the time-limits of proceedings without disrupting the staff. Safety for workers, service for users and better space are also quality requirements that must be ensured in the future justice system. An overall committee is also concerned that pilot schemes such as the use of video recording in court could provide new flexibility and cost-effectiveness, which could contribute positively to the work of the courts. The experiment, which has been named Conflict and Reconciliation, can produce good and forward-looking results for the parties involved in child distribution issues. When those who are convicted, finally, after standing in an unworthy reconciliation queue, arrive at atonement, the content of the soning must be of better quality. In my opinion, the government is doing too little of this. In this budget, there is not enough money to raise the quality of the soning. When we're in criminal custody and we hear that there's no call for temporary workers in the event of a disease, that the manning is so scarce that it doesn't follow up well enough, that detention is still largely safe, and that there's not enough people to actively work for improvement, it just doesn't do enough. But I am glad that a joint committee believes it is in place to review what kind of knowledge exists about the ADHD/ADD problem in prison, and what kind of offer and follow-up these prisoners are offered. We know that this type of problem is much more common in Norwegian prisons than outside. I am also very pleased that a joint committee at least asks the Government to assess the possibility of setting up a university prison in Bergen in cooperation with the University of Bergen. There is too little research on Norwegian prisons. These are the people in the prison system in Bergen who want to correct, and then I think we have to do the best we can to get this research done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1068	Today we have approx. 2 500 in pay queue. We're increasing the funds of criminal protection by 9.3 pst. This is a serious situation, and it is a slow, increasing trend towards the growth of housing queues. But the government has speeded up the process of reducing pay queues. Among other things, we want increased capacity utilisation in open prisons. Partial duplications have been carried out, and not least: prison construction is under way. It is decided to establish a new prison in Halden and make extensions in Bergen. In addition, there is a prison in a former military camp at Vardåsen in Kongsvinger. In addition, the government is planning a prison in Northern Ireland. Governments and government parties are also working to make better use of social sanctions. All of this building, of course, is a result and a build-up of the accident units of former workers' party governments. In addition, I would like to say that the Workers' Party has hit the government and the Minister of Justice in order not to do enough to reduce the settlement queues. Then I would say that the Labour Party must have a bad conscience for its own accident. I want to use a Swedish saying, especially in relation to the representative Storberget, who has been very eager to criticise the government's emergency units in relation to the compensation capacity. The saying is, 'I'm not lying,' said the old man, 'but I'm talking a little more true than I actually know.' This is also true in relation to the Workers' Party and the violent description of misery and criticism. They do not have their own answers, but the misery is not least due to the lack of measures and strategies from former workers’ party governments. Storberget & Co. With verbal swords, the prisons are full. But then you should go back to 1994-1995, when in St.prp. No 1 was said that the need in 2000 would be 3 350 prisons, and in St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98 it was said that in 2000 the need would be 3 100–3 300 settlements. The real figure for 2000-2001 was 2,900 prison places, so the settlement queue we have today may not have come as a surprise. This was provided in St.prp. No 1 for 1994-95, which was established many years ago. As far as the content of the ransom is concerned, it's true, as many people say, that we have to look at the quality of the contents of the ransom. However, the content should not be such as to reduce penalties, but it should be treatment-qualifying in relation to the treatment given in prisons. The government has a big investment in psychiatry. In connection with the previous state budget, we have heard a number of tribute speeches from the Workers' Party and SV. But what was done to add funds to these tributes? Much of it was given much less money than what you said. What you're doing now is you're actually satisfying what you've expressed in words, through a strong commitment to psychiatry. This, of course, will also be helpful in relation to, among other things. the 30 pst. prisoners with ADHD diagnosis. There are also a number of young offenders that we have to try to prevent a major relapse — as it is among young people — and we want to stop this. Psychiatric reform and its means can help to give these people a desired offer, so that they do not have a relapse in terms of crime. We want to stop unwanted behaviour, and we want prisons not to be training institutions for later criminal behaviour. Therefore, the housing needs to be adapted to the individual’s situation. Today, there may be too much talk about a one-sided, collective and common solution for large groups instead of having an extreme adaptation to individual needs. We agree that there is a lack of adequate rehabilitation, but then you cannot do as the Workers' Party and SV do, that you actually waive the possibility of using, among other things. ‘New life’, which has a very high success rate in relation to the number of people who have no relapse after the end of atonement. In addition, the Government wants to launch a number of instruments to combat crime. We want good growth conditions in a secure environment. The family is the backbone of society itself. That's the security chance and the most important social network. In addition, school, community and voluntary teams and associations must be given good conditions. The foundation of life begins in the home, it begins in the community. Therefore, the right hand-shake in the State budget gives voluntary teams and associations, so that people who contribute to them can receive a tax deduction of up to NOK 6000. We've seen the utility of this. This is important for example: the local environment and the growing-up conditions of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1085	President, we also want to join the ranks of congratulations. In this budgetary position, we in the Progress Party have chosen to show what the views and priorities of the Progress Party are. This is done to clarify what is the policy of the Progress Party, and what we are working to achieve. I hear that the Labour Party believes that the Progress Party, as the only party, should not be able to make its policy visible. This may be because the Workers' Party does not like that there is a difference between what is the lead position of the Advance Party and what is a purely compromise. That the Workers' Party should be able to express its political line, I believe it is good, but the Advance Party reserves the right to do the same – i.e. a requirement for equality for both law and regulation. Now that we are dealing with the budget of the Judicial Committee, there has been relatively little mention of the courts. The courts are the part of the criminal proceedings that actually determines the guilt and the degree of punishment to be served, if any. For victims and others, making a decision is very important. Living in an unexplained situation is so burdensome that this must be avoided, as far as possible. That's why we're happy to have increased the appropriations by 5 million. kr in the compromise agreements. If the Progress Party had been given priority solely on the basis of its own policies, it would have become considerably more, as the figures also show. But it's better to get 5 million. kr than just sitting on the sideline and yelling for amounts for which you do not actually have a majority. The treatment period for criminal proceedings is taking us all. Regrettably, the lack of priorities of the courts both in the first instance and in the second instance has led to excessive time for civil proceedings. It is often the case that once you have been informed that the criminal cases are to be given priority — which is natural — and the necessary funds are not to be spent, this is at the expense of civil matters. In a legal society, it is important that these matters too be resolved quickly and in a good way. The alternative will be to find other channels, such as arbitration, or that things eat even more than necessary because one thing is not static, but also lives one's life while one's waiting for a decision. In the context of the courts, it is natural to address the question of free legal aid. I see it as very unfortunate that the changes we adopted would apply from 1 January, and now only apply from 1 September. In this connection, I am actually surprised at the Workers' Party. They talked hot about it, but they didn't even try to do anything when they actually had the opportunity to do it. When the Workers' Party started its negotiations with the government parties, there was nothing in their first draft of the claims referred to as free legal aid – not one penny for the Workers' Party. Then it's a little strange that they're now flagging so high something they weren't even interested in trying to get into the budget. I am sorry that the Progress Party did not get through to start free legal assistance from 1 January in the negotiations we had with the government parties, but the Progress Party tried at least, as opposed to the Workers' Party. On 1 November the Court of Justice came into force. Now the courts as the state authority have also been given their own administration. This does not mean that the courts are becoming a totally free-floating satellite in relation to magnification and government, but they are to be governed by the budget and its treatment. It is right to develop and use management tools that provide opportunities to see the practical functioning of the Court and that it is implemented in an efficient and good manner. Then we can get a comprehensive assessment of the challenges across the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1100	It is important for the Christian People's Party in the context of free legal aid that no one suffers legal loss because of social differences or lack of financial capacity. Student rights support measures play an important role and should be better addressed. They assist many people in difficult situations within a sobering cost framework. Disabled persons in need of legal advice who have used the trial project offering free legal assistance experience this very positively. The Christian People's Party wishes to meet in the long term the wishes of the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons to make this a permanent arrangement. Inner. S. No 156 for 2001–02, on the rescue helicopter service in the future, was addressed by the Stortinget on 16 May this year. I also refer to the debate based on Innst. S. No 9 for 2002-2003 on social security. The public rescue service is based on the basic idea that all resources in our country, state, county, municipal, private and voluntary, can quickly be mobilised for operations in the rescue service. When the Government increases the subsidy to non-governmental organisations by 0.5 million kr is a signal that the voluntary initiative in the rescue service is valued. An overall committee believes that if the various actors involved in rescue operations cooperate more closely on training, it will be able to bring future improvements and rescue professionals, human and economic benefits. The areas covered by the rescue services are often crucial for life and health. It is important to maintain a focus on this service and the qualities it is expected to have. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to putting in place the conditions that affect the overall security of the Norwegian people. It concerns the upgrading of the rescue helicopter service, the establishment of a new Security Directorate, the Main Rescue Centres and other relevant professional bodies and non-governmental organisations. Today's analogue radio connection, used by emergency buildings and other emergency departments, needs to be replaced by new digital technologies over five to ten years. Today's system, based on outgoing technology, is not leakproof and does not meet the needs for cross-departmental communication. The Committee is aware that the police have to use mobile phones in many places to get in touch with their own central network when the regular network fails. A new radio link will therefore reduce the risk of life loss and make police work more effective. A national deployment solution with TETRA standards will cost approximately DKK 3.5 billion in 2002 prices. A joint deployment of the emergency contact radio requires the deployment of TETRA equipment into existing telecommunications spaces and antenna masts. This must be done for both costs and environmental reasons. It is a prerequisite that emergency states terminate their separate communications systems and apply the new TETRA as soon as it is made available. It is essential to limit the cost of development that work is coordinated with other major development projects that coincide on time. Reference is made here to the GSM-R project of the Railway Agency. The coordination of large, ongoing and new projects must therefore be a continuous process. Reasonable efforts in this area could provide valuable synergies. The Christian People's Party sees the need to continue the pilot project in the first half of 2003 in order to carry out further testing of critical functions and testing of second-generation appliances. It is essential that the police initiate the use of TETRA equipment. Bindings to the pilot project must not impede effective competition when entering a tender phase in the spring of 2003. In addition, reference is made to the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002, social security, and joint comments on TETRA. Finally, I would like to express my joy at the fact that by 1 September next year, there will be a separate helicopter service in the Oslo-based police department. In this context, there will also be an advantage if the trial period prior to the establishment on 1 September can have effects in relation to making the police visible in the traffic picture, so that we may avoid the ugly statistics that we saw in connection with the holiday settlement and traffic last summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1121	Since the debate raised many objections to the Labour Party's judicial policy course and any change in course, I would like to introduce you to a 12-year-old. He is described in recently published documents – and he has also published it by sea – as follows: From the age of 12, the mother was still away from home. The absences were partly long-lasting, and he and his brother had to cope well along the way. The mother was right enough inside to fill up the refrigerator and to put money back, and a little help was given to the two boys from relatives who lived nearby. But in reality they were careless. Contact with the father has been very limited. When he was about 15 years old, his brother moved out, and one year later his mother moved to the United States. He then stayed alone, except that he occasionally gave shelter to comrades who got on the verge of their parents. He lived with his mother in the United States for a short period of time, but did not find a place to go home. Nor was an attempt to live with the father between 17 and 18 years of age successful, and the same was true of an attempt to live with uncle. His difficult situation in life and the lack of care seem to have been given little attention from outside the world. Because of drug abuse and petty crime, child protection was linked on a couple of occasions, but the cases there were closed without action. I allow myself to read this out, because it is this boy who was sentenced yesterday to 18 years in prison for killing Benjamin Hermansen at Holmlia, and because it shows how difficult criminal politics are. When representatives from the government parties almost in desperation about not having other arguments accuse the Labour Party of being soft in criminal policy, then there is no doubt that such a reaction as 18 years of imprisonment for a serious criminal offence is in place, but at the same time it is also in place to ask questions about what kind of growth we give younger people both in Oslo and elsewhere. And one must also be allowed to ask such questions, sail if one has previously been responsible for both the government and the magnificence. It can't possibly exempt us from taking the right action today if we failed in 1994, which someone was in, or in 1997. What in the world – what meaning should it have? This boy committed a cruel crime on Holmlia in Søndre Nordstrand, a city that is currently suffering the fate that only a few weeks ago cut 800,000 kroner in child and youth work measures and projects, 500,000 kroner in prevention child protection, and we know that the additional consumption in this part of the city in terms of social assistance has grown by nearly 10 million. kr. My concern then is that if we can't hold up both of these phases – reaction and prevention – to bring down the crime scene, we've not only lost an important vision, but then we've lost a very important instrument to do something about it. In Oslo today, we know, among others. that child-restraint institutions operate in open spaces. Biermannsgate Emergency and Investigation Institute and Rakel Grepp-heimen have a covering down to 50 pst., and then we know that the need is reported to have become almost twice as big just over the last few years compared to a few years earlier. If there are anyone in this room who insists on asking other questions and focusing on other things than increasing penalties and building more prisons, then it can't mean being soft in criminal policy. It leads me to just the suggestions that the Workers' Party has made, and which I wonder about, are almost made as being a kind of software. Is it soft to say that now we have to rust up the state attorney's offices and give the state attorneys $4 million. In addition to what the Government has proposed, is it possible to obtain rapid criminal proceedings? As a former defender, I have to say that giving money to the state attorneys is hardly seen as particularly soft. Is it soft to suggest, as the Workers' Party does, 15 million. Do more to Norwegian courts, in order to be able to impose penalties? Or is it soft to suggest – it is, in my opinion, the main line of this debate – between 50 and 60 million. extra to the criminal justice agency in addition to what the government has proposed? Is that soft? In my opinion, it would actually mean that you could open up to get even more hold of the payroll, and you could also be able to fill your stay with much more content than what you are doing today. But I agree with my associate Gunn Karin Gjul when she says that this must be the fight the Minister of Justice has lost in his own government. In particular, in view of the fact that an overall committee has pointed out not only in its position this year, but also in relation to what was set up last year, the growth in the judicial budget in the years to come, in order to have any growth, had to come into criminal custody. I've tried to ask the Minister of Justice several times, and I was going to take a line on him, but the representative Marthinsen took it in the name of democracy, so now I'm asking: Is it so that you think that now you actually have increased the resources for the criminal services per. the working day, or is it right, as the Working Party has claimed, that the resources per. Soil traps and per year. Well, you've actually been going down for 24 hours? It's serious. Then this 9pst.-growth to which the government refers becomes a lean comfort to people in criminal matters, who really want to take a hold on the issues we are now facing. It is therefore my opinion that we cannot dismiss such a debate on the increase in criminal custody, in order to strengthen it both in terms of content and the possibility of reducing the pay queue, in that this made the Workers' Party so poor in 1994 or 1997 or when it might be. It's totally uninteresting. Nor can we dismiss it with a debate that all other proposals should be soft, and I do not think we can deny it when the undersigned and representatives of the Workers' Party ask questions about the judicial proposals that come, among other things. from the Progress Party, which is now being supported far into the Government, e.g. in relation to the duplication of criminal penalties in the case of repeated offences or in the case of multiple offences. Today, when you are convicted of serious thefts, the sentence is nine years in prison. We know that the government will propose twelve years in prison if you commit two serious thefts. I have applied for criminal statistics, and it turns out that of 2,550 responses for gross theft last year, 95 were pst. fines or imprisonment for less than one year. Ten reactions occurred in prison for three years or more, while the maximum penalty did not occur. So 95 pst. responses of less than one year. The punishment sentence today is nine years, and the proposal in the Grand Duchy is that you want to raise it to twelve years. I think it must be the law of justice politicians to say that this is actually symbol politics, this doesn't count. We need other measures. I also think we need to be able to say it without being accused of turning back to do something effective in relation to the important field we are actually facing. In my opinion, this debate has shown that the Government, and in particular the Christian People's Party, has been in the vanguard of the ideas that have been flagged very high in this House in the past, when the representative Marthinsen begins to talk about solidarity within the Government in terms of the fraud that is now taking place in the drugs policy, both in relation to the age limits, in relation to Brussels, and also in relation to the charges. There have been some of the most important issues for the Christian People's Party in the past. It has been so important that it has even been repeated in the year's budgetary position, a little inconspicuous, where it has been said: ‘The majority will point out that maintaining a restrictive alcohol policy is a central tool in the fight against crime. The majority are known to be well-documented that the most effective means of alcohol policy are those that reduce availability and increase price.’ The Christian People's Party in the Government does this on the basis of showing solidarity within the Government. Is that what has been left of the Christian People's Party's thoughts of solidarity in the matter of drug policy? Then I have to say, it is very expensive to sit in Norwegian governments. Finally, since I did not get a reply from the Council of State, there is also another issue I want to challenge him on, and that is the question of the law of transparency. What is the real reason why the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left to extend the scope and working time of the Transparency Act cannot now be supported? This has been a very important institute of transparency. You've given people a chance over time. But there have been groups, among others. Notified in a letter to the Ministry of Justice, on the basis of ethnic surveillance that has now come on the ground, and we know that there is an ever-need. But what is the real reason why you actually won't do it when it's said out in society that there's a need for it? What's the real reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1145	It was clear that the head of the Justice Committee met a sore point at Storberget when he earlier accused the Workers' Party of being ‘soft’ in justice policy. But it was still good, because it's actually the first time in a whole year that I've heard the Great Mountain standing up and telling you what the Workers' Party means. During this year, Storberget has used every opportunity to criticize the Minister of Justice and the government parties for a cold and cynical judicial policy, so it was good that Storberget now actually got the chance to tell what the Workers' Party wants. That's good. There is no doubt that everyone in the committee agrees that the main task of the police is to ensure security and to combat and prevent crime. Right-wing belief is that the main strategy pursued by the police, namely general prevention measures to prevent crime and criminal proceedings, is the right strategy. During this year I have had the opportunity to visit more police districts around the country, and I will praise the police too much of the good work done around. One example I would like to highlight is the SLT scheme, which is now working well in several municipalities. Finally, we have a system that makes it possible to work across the board, and there is no doubt that this is the way to go for results. The prevention work done by children and young people is an investment in our future, and I am absolutely convinced that it is not possible to get such a job if it is not anchored at the top level of the municipality. I would like to highlight in particular the work done around the municipalities where you go in and help the individual young people who have been in a difficult situation. This would not have been possible if it had not been for all the fires that are working around. I have also spent some time with the police this year, and it is very impressive to see how much good police work is done around. We have seen to it that the new police districts should be put in place, so that, among other things, could reduce the length of the procedure, have a more visible police force and free qualified police officers from purely typing tasks. And it's natural now to ask ourselves if we're satisfied with the new structure of Police Norway. Of course, we expect coordination of resources to enable the police to better meet the challenges they face. It'll be exciting to see if our expectations are met. The right-hander thinks that this reform was very correct. But we cannot hide the fact that many of the childhood diseases have already been evident through the transition phase. Of course, a thorough evaluation should be carried out, and it is not least important that we have good target criteria in place, so that we have the opportunity to measure the quality of the overall police product. And it's not just us here in the hall who have great expectations of the result. The entire population expects the police to make us feel safe as citizens. The police have been allocated considerable resources in the last few years' budgets, and when we look at the appropriations in the criminal chain, the police have been privileged. But it is not obvious that increased appropriations will improve the quality of police work. The police use approx. One and a half billion dollars a year, and then we also have to expect results. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party are concerned that every time we assign extra tasks to the police, it has to keep up with money. I don't always think that's right. I rather think it is necessary for us that we now make demands on how the police should use their resources. The Joint Police Association is often very good at pointing out the need for more resources. They include: that the proposition dealing with fictitious identity, which we now have to deal with in Stortinget, is an unprofessional proposal because it does not come with money. I think this is a completely wrong approach to the issue. Making demands to the police that they use their resources properly is actually a responsibility that politicians have, not least it has something to do with trust in the police. Increased resources are also expected to improve the quality of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1165	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1168	I only have a few points of view on something in the budget position on page 36 on housing, which is about Anders Jahr dødsbo. I think it is remarkable that the majority of the Judicial Committee has said that they have ‘trusted in the work of the organs of the household’. It seems that the majority of the Judicial Committee believes that this is a bankruptcy settlement, while it is in reality a residence of death. And in a home of death, it's, at least, as I've understood it, first and foremost, a consideration for the lotteries. In this case, there's only one lottery. It is the lodger who is the principal contractor, as I have at least assessed the legal situation. It is also rare that this estate, which of course also has a right of replacement responsibility, has been allowed to continue for so long, and especially when the property no longer has the trust of the lodgers. It is then remarkable that the Justice Committee is involved in the assessment of the death penalty, a settlement that thus fights with the lodger. It seems like you, because the state is the creditor, for some remarkable reason, have staggered to do what had been natural, namely, to strike the fatal bankruptcy, and then to get a real bankruptcy home where the state as the principal creditor would of course be controlled. In some ways, the right to change seems to have recognised that instead of the property manager dealing with lotteries, you relate to one of the creditors. The role of the state is purely as one of the creditors, of course the largest one, so that the right to change also seems to be working in a way based on doing what is in the interests of the state. And then I would like to call a little warning: is that in accordance with the principles of the rule of law? There have been enough views that we might have a little too many in our court system, which initially seems to be too many times to pay more attention to the interests of the state than the legal assessments should be based on, because the state itself is like something that should weigh heavily. I think it's strange that the Justice Committee here has gone into this matter when there's a conflict, and so try to say that it's no longer going to be such that resident administrators in the Mortgage should take into account those who are heirs in the Home, and are lodgers in the Home, but only a representative of the Creditors, in this case one creditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1180	The representative of Storberget once made a visit to the Christian People's Party and said that for the Christian People's Party it is precious to be in government. I would like to point out that for the Christian People's Party, it is at least cheaper at the moment to sit in a government that receives subsidiary support from the Advance Party than to sit in a government that should be supported by the Workers' Party. The costs that it looked like we had to adjust to according to the Workers' Party's alternative budget say something about us, for example. must have set us up on great sacrifices from the Christian People's Party. There would certainly be some changes in the negotiations along the way. But just to take two of the pain points that the Workers' Party pressed on: a reduction in the cash support by NOK 1 1⁄2 billion and a reduction in the appropriations for the Church that would result in the cancellation of 100 priests. Then I think you should be careful to mention costs in relation to the agreement that the Christian People's Party has been in. The problem is that the Labour Party has difficulties in understanding that when working together, one must also be willing to suffer defeat on some points. You can't get what you want anywhere. Having said that, I would like to conclude, for my part, this debate on the budget of justice by quoting the representative of Storberget, and this time with support. During an interpellation debate in spring, he said the following: ‘The fight against crime is one of the main challenges we face. However, we should be careful to turn the debate on combating crime into a debate on who is calling the highest, who is proposing the'most', which is the most extreme, and who is given the greatest notice.' - That's very well said! It should necessarily lead to self-searching questions, even for the Workers' Party in relation to the rhetoric they are now performing. Justice policy is not an area of polemics and games, but for joint action against the challenge of crime in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1192	I'd like to use the opportunity to get to the end of my five points. First cards back to what's up with the police, and a question to the state council in that respect. Does he have a good answer to the police officer in Haugesund, who can't now recruit new high school police students to Karmøy, Sauda, Suldal or Ølen? Does he have enough resources in the budget that is currently under way, so that we too can get our share of the new ones on that side of the mountain? So short to the transparency laws and that answer I got there. From the centre party we want to stress that it is now in the very last time that it has actually come to light that the illegal surveillance has gone far beyond what anyone could consider to be right. According to Bergen's Official Journal of 28 October this year, some actually were registered with the police as late as in the 1990s because they were involved in women's political work. Then it's our view that since it's been a long time since it's been a strong desire to correct the injustice done to individuals, it's also important to end this investigation in a way that gives trust. It is then absolutely necessary that the information recorded by the surveillance police can be made transparent, and this can be done by extending the transparency period. My last point relates to the fight against crime. It is good that the police have actions, as they have now had, against cross-border crime and illegal immigration. We thought it was the wrong use of the word ‘advent’ – a word that actually leads to the idea that there is room in the hostel. We like to see new actions, but we think it's a Christian People's Party-led government that doesn't have much to do with church celebrations when you're about to name such actions. We hope it doesn't happen again. So an explanation of vote on the part of the Central Party. We're going to support the Workers' Party and SV's proposal for the framework, we're going to support their proposal No. 2-6, and we will also support SV's proposal, No. 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1207	It was the representative of Dybevig who made me take the floor again. I think it takes a history description that coincides with the truth, and that you don't claim, as Dybevig did, that the Workers' Party had done nothing to get rid of the reconciliation queue. During my previous period in the Justice Committee, from the spring of 1993 to 1997, new prisons were built in Skien, Bergen, and Ringerijke. And in the summer of 1997, when I left the Judiciary Committee, there were less than 50 complete judges waiting in a payroll queue. What we now have of queues, as per. 30 September is at 2 509 people, we've got in the last few years. And in recent years, at least the Workers' Party has not been the longest in government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1217	It was the representative Hagen who made me draw on the list of speakers one more time. What Hagen said, didn't surprise me, because that's how we know the Advancement Party when it comes to combating the perhaps most serious form of crime, that you fold back. The formal and legal arguments are put forward, both state-law arrangements and what they need to be. I believe that the Judicial Committee, all the parties who have expressed confidence in the settlement of Anders Jahr's residence, is fully aware that it is a resident of death. It is not possible to read the configuration as the representative Hagen did. To the question of whether, as a politician and as a justice economist, you should focus on what is happening in relation to this residence – I felt that it was Hagen’s main concern, is precisely what the Progress Party has been doing for many years, trying to obstruct this settlement. It's a good sign that you actually use false legal and formal arguments when it just fits a sail. What is important and correct is that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has done, and which I am pleased that the parties to the government have also supported in relation to this matter, is that the budgetary statement actually states that this follow-up must continue with 'undiminished strength'. It's important, not just to get the money that the Norwegian State legally requires, but it's also very important to show that such persecution has a general preventive effect, because this is a serious financial crime. Then the comment of the Justice Committee is not self-evident, as Carl I. Hagen was inside. What's rare is that the Progress Party is still high on the field in fighting crime, but it's retreating when it comes to people's wealth, and how people have really cheated on their very big fortunes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1231	I would like to address some of the things that the Minister of Justice had to say today. He spoke, among other things, on the rescue helicopter service and the acquisition by the Ministry of Justice of 2004. He suggested something about the base structure that made me have to ask for the word. For this reason, I shall quote from the debate on 16 May when we debated the report by Mr St. No 44 for 2000-2001, where, among other things, the Minister of Justice said the following: ‘Suitable and cost-effective operation with a continental private operator may mean that a private operator should have two bases, one in addition to Florø. This may be the base of Finnmark, but other solutions may also be relevant.’ I interpreted it as a signal that the minister also sees the need to have two civilly operated rescue helicopters on the mainland in order for a private operator to be synergized to the extent that the operation is economically sound. I expect the minister to come back to it next year's draft budget when you take over the management of the rescue helicopter service. I also find it strange that he did not comment more clearly on the police reform, which several others have been involved in and expressed a little scepticism so far, because no particular result can be seen from it. Then he talked about his vision, and that's okay. It's totally acceptable that you have a vision. For my part, I have had the pleasure of having been in New York three times this year and have, among other things, been. Experienced how the New York Police have worked. I guess there's no doubt that the prescription they've been using in New York has worked. From 1994 to 2000, crime in New York was reduced by over 60 pst. evenly over. The reason for this was to double the police force and introduce zero tolerance. I think we should take it inwards also in Norway, because they have shown that this is true. New York was among the cities that had the largest crime in the world — raw and brutal crime in many contexts — but today, at my discretion, is as safe as Oslo is at times. So to the representative of Hofstad, who in his speech was very concerned about the Right-wing reinforcement of the police. Yes, they were so concerned about the reinforcement of the police that we had to help them get 46 million in place. NOK, which I registered that she skillfully changed. In addition, I record that the representative, Hofstad, once again leapt over his distinguished political stunt – if I can use such a term – in terms of using housing abroad. She was challenged on it instead of me, did not pick up the glove and left it again. It is my reverential claim that such a policy-making approach is a form of See and Hearing policy that should be avoided. It doesn't create credibility in this room. In conclusion, I would like to say to the representative of Storberget that I actually agree with what he said in his second last post about having visions, about having a picture of criminal policy. I think you should. That is probably the way the policy changes within the respective parties, and also through the conclusions we finally draw from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1249	The Storberg gave a good lecture on prevention and that it is important in the fight against crime. I also mentioned that in my article. Good growth conditions in the home, but also in the community, are of course very important for the future of the individual. Of course, the cause of crime is very complex. The active substances are many in the prevention of crime. In terms of the responses of society to criminals, it is also essential, in our view, to have adequate and good criminal responses. Every time we talk about criminal reactions, the Workers' Party starts discussing prevention. It must also be possible to have severe criminal responses. I would like to mention some of the areas where, in my opinion, the Workers' Party has failed and where they are'soft'. It is in relation to quantum discounts that quantum discounts are granted when several crimes are committed. Penalties are given, and the Workers' Party has also previously practised parole far earlier than intended. Now you want to consider so-called home reconciliation. In my opinion, there is a serious attack on privacy. So you let the homes of individuals be converted into prisons. In fact, family members are allowed to become part of the compensation, and the punishment that each individual receives, and the detention, is very distorted, depending on the place of residence, depending on living conditions, depending on income, depending on social activity and not least on the means of communication. It raises the question of whether it is detention at all. So a little line to Anne Helen Rui. I mentioned that the Workers' Party has done little to expand the prison capacity. The point of saying it was that the Workers' Party has been hammering the government for a whole year that the government is not doing enough to defuse the reconciliation queue. Now you do that. You build up in Halden, you build up in Bergen, you design a new prison in Northernland, and you start at Vardåsen by Kongsvinger. They talk about prison expansion in 1993 — I think it was — and it is earlier than the reports and reports that were presented and that were not taken into account. So I just want to end by saying that in terms of improving the efficiency of the court system, we have to look at Trondheim. Both Frosting Lawyers and Trondheim Townrights have shown great creativity and willingness to change to handle matters. They use video recordings, they use so-called ‘overbooking’ of cases, they have an additional willingness to judge, they have an alternative approach in child distribution cases, and they use legal mediation in civil matters. These are important things that other district courts, city courts and law enforcement rights should also watch and learn from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1262	The Great Mountain was concerned whether it was possible to focus on measures other than criminal sanctions and pointed to a tragic example of a killing case in Oslo. Regrettably, many children today are also exposed to great suffering in our society. You can ask the question, is it a human right to have children? Are unaccountable parents going to produce children for whom the public is going to take responsibility from early years due to extreme care failure? Yes, children must be protected, but the failure of parents to provide care can only be corrected to a certain extent with a public budget. I think the biggest challenge in our society is the overall moral decay. That is the real reason why almost all public budgets are going to crack. More and more people choose selfishness rather than the consideration of the nearest ones around them. This applies both in working life and in family situations and in general traffic behaviour. It appears that consideration of personal gain should be given priority to the needs of the Community. This development wants the Christian People's Party to turn towards more care for individuals who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1269	First, a heart attack with regard to the cows and the problems with them. An effective government had solved that problem within three months by simply quickly getting private security companies and property developers to offer prison capacity – they would not have needed more than three months more – for those prisoners who are at least safe to escape, the least violent, but who will zone. It would have been no problem to fix if you had had a powerful government that was not run by the trade unions or the public. Then Knut Storberget and Anders Jahre-saken. I have often felt that Knut Storberget and I have sometimes had things we have agreed on when it comes to legal certainty. But he says this is a crime. It is unknown to me that some court has ruled on such crime. There are cases before the courts, and then you should wait for the courts to decide. My main concern is: Why has not the State, as a creditor, made sure to get a confession that acknowledges that they have a real claim in their residence? The State as the creditor has in fact managed to acquire the authority of instruction over the administrator. In spite of the fact that the landlord is primarily the lodger's representative, it has therefore been sabotaged to enter a courtroom to decide that the state has a real claim against Anders Jahr diesbo. That's my charge. We sometimes see a lot of signs of system failure in our court system. That's what I'm going to say, because it's said enough about it in the literature as well. Our system is that governments, partly the government, appoint Supreme Court judges and other judges. They have every opportunity to – of course not on any scale that we know about in regimes that we don't like. But here's a nuance difference. There are sliding transitions. Then it's time we asked the question: do we get completely objective and independent judges when it's the government that rules who is becoming judges to a great extent? We tend to be very gullible in matters where the state is a party. I think we need to see that when the state as a creditor takes over the management of a dwelling, where the state is only a creditor and not a lottery, instead of deadlines for the processing of the property, gets the help of the right of replacement to continue, they continue to sabotage that the courts get into the picture and get a sense of the matter. Now we'll see. Of course, these are cases before the court. Part of the things I'm talking about, goes to the Supreme Court's favorite selection. But I think it's wrong to say that people, who at least I respect very highly, are criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1281	Only a few brief comments at the end of the debate, among others. due to the posts of Mr Meltveit Kleppa. The centre party is not in the committee, but I think they have a right to have a response. The representative was particularly concerned about not getting enough skilled people to apply for positions outside the urban areas. Obviously, it's a challenge. These are the questions I would like to take into account in a governance dialogue with the Police Directorate, precisely in the context of how the police reform works, as described in the budget proposal, and on which the Committee has also made important comments. I also want to focus on this perspective. I think it's important to take it seriously. Of course, we don't deserve to have situations like her, for example. refers to. When it comes to the debate on reconciliation and reconciliation day, it's like -- I don't think I've stated the number -- that with the policy that we're now putting up, and that the Storting has joined, we can get 170 new places next year, most of them open. It's just to get away from those who have the shortest sentences. We also get an arrangement with a pro-mille program, where § 12-soning will help the reconciliation queue to be handled in another way. We have also been entrusted with a task which lies in the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. Until the revised national budget, we will look into whether, by reviewing the country's military camps and other facilities, it is possible to find suitable places. It will, of course, be implemented. I agree with Mr Hagen that it is a threat to the sense of justice in a society to have large cows of atonement. Moreover, what has also been discussed in the previous debate is a poor starting point for the rehabilitation of those who have to deal with it, that they have to wait a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1290	Knut Storberget has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1293	I'll be brief. This concerns Mr Hagen's two references to the Anders Jahr-boet. It is amazing that you can assess the Anders Jahre- lived there that the State should not have tried to bring this case before the judicial system. That's what you've been struggling with for many years to most of the actors in this place. It's perfectly clear. So the second question is whether you have a real claim in the house. It's quite obvious that you have a real claim in your life. After all, the money has even begun to return to the legal owner, the state. When these actors, who are either banks or others, start repaying money, I think it's obvious that you had a real claim in the house. Then, in fact, one is faced with criminal evasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1300	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1303	The natural thing for the state that the creditor had been going bankrupt a long time ago. It had been a legal matter, and then a court could have come in and assessed to what extent the state has a real legal claim in this residence. They had then tried one of the main points, whether any foreign property belonged to Anders Jahre personally or to the company that was then the company Kosmos, which is quite central. The state has been terrified that some court should decide, and therefore the State has acted in such a way as to sabotage any possibility of the case being brought before a court. I assume that answers to written questions I have addressed to the Minister of Finance will clarify this when he is likely to have time to answer these questions in a moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1308	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[See page 761]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1323	It's gonna be quick. I just want to say that the Committee agrees with the proposed amendments to the 2002 State Budget presented here. The Progress Party has some own comments, and the Workers' Party and SV also have a special comment related to the police. But there's been some changes. I'll mention two of them. Among other things, it's under the hood. 440 Police Directorate gave 52 million. extra to cover additional expenditure on asylum and foreign affairs. Then everyone is aware that there was a big world banking meeting in Oslo that charged the Oslo police with large, extra expenses, and the government is now proposing to compensate this by increasing the allocation to the Oslo Police District by 75 million. kr. Otherwise, some minor changes will be made to other items, which will also have the agreement of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1334	This is a parallel matter to the one we were dealing with last autumn – which was my first similar case – where a budget regulation was made. As I recall, last time I expressed a bit of criticism of what you saw as a fine adjustment of the budget just before the year is over, so that the budget balances will be in line with the accounting figures. The Progress Party is critical of such a procedure, because what is actually being done is to avoid any criticism from the Riksrevision by making that adjustment. For our part, we think it's more convenient to do what you think is necessary within the year operationally, and then you get to present to the National Audit Office the comments and comments that are necessary to explain why it has become so. What we're doing here is we're adapting the situation to the activity that has arisen, regardless of the budget framework we actually had and decided the harvest before, and that's what we think is critical. It is also true that there appears to be some kind of estimate appropriations in relation to some of these chapters, and if that's what you wanted, you should come back to the Storting and ask for it as an estimate, then you let go of this piece. Then it would be the operating level that determined the consumption. What we are now considering and assuming, however, is that the Minister of Justice will keep track of developments in his area of responsibility, whether it was an estimate or whether it was the case today. So we've concluded that we're going to vote against a good part of these proposals. I have been asked a question about the race. Four hundred forty. We must also vote against it. In the event of an incurrency, under our proposal under 441, it has been omitted that this can be transferred. We have there proposed a reinforcement of the police beyond what is now inside, a total of 150 million. And we want it to be transferable. The point here is to reduce the risk of corresponding happening to next year, that we're going to re-run with large amounts to re-establish the budget at the end of the year. Another thing that we have reacted to is this with the conference that was in Oslo, which has put on considerable expenditure by the Oslo Police. If the government wants to facilitate such activity, we think it's more neat that they come to the Storting with an additional proposition, then the Storing gets to decide on it there and there. In the vast majority of cases, I'm going to believe that the Storting joins it. In conclusion, we have covered this transfer between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice in the case of Vardåsen clay. We're a little bit -- I don't know what kind of words I'm going to use, President, without being clubbed here, but "something amazement" can I say without being knocked down, I would have almost said -- about the Norwegian economy being so vulnerable that we can't settle this payment between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice, that we have to divide this amount over several years. It seems very strange to us, and we have not found any good explanation for it in the present proposal. I am addressing the minority proposal from the Progress Party and, hopefully, I have also given notice of what we are going to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1349	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1352	I'll make a few brief comments about the ejaculation. It's a fact that we've almost had a step effect that it hasn't been easy to predict in terms of costs. They are now visible, and of course we will relate to that in terms of further development. But I think the reality is coming out when I tell you that the police have sent out 2,200 in 1999, 3,400 in 2000, 5,200 in 2001 and about. 6,500 then there remained some months of this year. That means that there has been a development that one has to deal with. The government has said that it will review it both in relation to groundless asylum seekers, who have been raised several times in the Stortinget, and also in relation to the entire procedure. That's what led to this presentation, and it's also presented in the proposition. As far as the research conference is concerned, it is mentioned in the revised national budget. They say you're in front of something that you haven't had experience with before. The police have gone into it to gain experience, and have got it, and they handled the conference in a way that they generally appreciated. They managed to secure peaceful demonstrators their right to carry out peaceful demonstrations, and they were able to prevent anything from happening that could threaten this peace, as had been seen before. I believe that the good preparations of the police were important for this, but this has led to a bill that had to be covered. In the case of the Oslo police, which has been a debate theme, the situation shows that by The third quarter of this year has a slight decline in violence in Oslo in general, and especially in the centre areas. Some of it is related to what the Committee knows, which is called ‘problem-oriented police work’, which is targeted. Nor is it true that there are so few police patrols out there that you have read in some newspapers. The chief of police has informed us that there are always at least 15 patrols out in Oslo on weekends, i.e. at least 30 policemen, and that in no way do we have any worse preparedness than what we have in other Nordic capitals. With regard to overtime use, the Riksrevision has asked for a comment on this. We are also awaiting a report back from the Police Directorate. However, a reform that lies there is that the budgetary powers delegated to the police officers for 2003 will be assessed in such a way that the Oslo police district will also be able to obtain powers wider than today to set up new annual works for some job categories within the budgetary framework. If you have very rigid powers and have strictness in overtime usage, you cannot risk doing the job you are going to do. And just looking at the system itself here, I think I'll be involved in solving and ensuring that you get the police task solved in time. I think it was right to make these comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1368	I have two questions for the Council of State. This applies to both caps. 414, Judgment expenses, and cap. 440, which is a general description of the need for asylum and foreign affairs. It says in the technical summary that there is not enough money ‘to cover the additional expenditure made by the police in 2002 in the field of asylum and alienation. This is due to the fact that developments in the field of asylum have been significantly increasing in recent years. There's a need for 52 million. to cover additional expenditure on asylum and foreign affairs’; This is an argument that belongs to an estimate allocation. The same applies to the costs of justice, where developments show that there is a need for more money. Would it not be natural for the Council of State to take the initiative to ensure that there were estimates in the areas where the department treats it as if it were? It is clear that if you were in the department to keep your budget, you would have done something in July, August or September when you saw that the budget would break. In other areas, this government is doing so, especially in the health sector. That's the one question. The other is Oslo. I have read in the newspapers that there has been an end to some overtime and restrictions and restrictions now the last months before Christmas. According to the newspapers, there is a lack of money to pay overtime and so on. Can the Council of State assure the Government that lack of money is not a problem with the minor activity of the Oslo Police Chamber, and that there are other reasons, but not lack of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1380	The Progress Party has made its observations on an estimate. I have chosen – open, of course, as it should be – to explain to the Storting both in the new age and in the post why we have had an increase in the costs of the asylum and refugee field. There's something that the government will have to go through, so you have a neat and good relationship with it later on, and of course we will. I will not add any other comments to it now. It's been an actual development, and I've described it as a step effect. Once this increase has been brought by many asylum seekers, many of them groundless, who are going to be sent out again, it will have an effect on the police who have not had enough tools to predict. Then we get to go through our tool to make sure it's good enough, and budgeting is the way it should be. That's what's the essence of Mr. Hagen's question to me. I will, of course, ensure that this is done, both in my own department and in relation to other cooperating departments affected by this. In the case of Oslo Police District, the overtime discussion is based on a remark from the National Audit Office on the use of overtime. We have asked that overtime use to get a message back on. I think that some of the answer here is, without me wanting to predict everything, because we haven't got all the material, that in the middle of not spending too much overtime, because you have rules for it, and for rigid rules in the field of jobs, you might be at risk of getting off the property. That is exactly why I said that we want to look at the job vacancies, which will improve the use of the resources. In terms of money, Oslo Police Department has compensated 42 million. kr in 2002, which has gone to additional watch costs after 11 September. It's brought in 52 million. kr on the side of the asylum seeker, who will go to Oslo to a large extent, and it has been brought in the 75 million. kr that has now been deposited at the ABCDE conference. It is my opinion that a good budget should then be in place to govern, and that the budget for next year, where both watch expenses and other matters have continued, could give the Oslo police an opportunity to solve their problems. But I think we need to look at purely organisational issues, and that is what I want to address in the governance dialogue with the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1389	I thank you for the answer to my first line, but I have some follow-up questions. I was particularly pleased when it came to the Oslo police district, where the Council of State clearly concluded that lack of money was not the cause of any lack of patrol and inadequate use of overtime, but that there may be overtime provisions and rules for the cause. He made it clear that there is no lack of money that is the reason, and it is good to clarify it. But he did not answer the first question, which was very specific: will the department ensure that the recommendation is put in place for the two chapters I was talking about? That's one way to do it. It's perfectly curative just to put the estimate and say that the court expenses have become higher than what we expected when we calculated this, because there have been several lawsuits. It's completely curative for us, just like in the case of sick pay and unemployment benefits. It uses what is necessary under laws and regulations, based on the need for sickness benefits and the need for unemployment benefits. And that's the exact same argument that the department here uses. There's a need for more money for the judiciary, because it's done more than you'd expect, just as people get sick more than you would expect. So what I wanted to know was that if you want to either put in the keynote letter of estimates, or if you want the Council of State to make sure that the Ministry is complying with the budget regulations, so that if it is not an estimate, you will be encouraged to make supplementary proposals to the Grand Duchy before expenditure is incurred?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1396	I find that the representative Carl I. Hagen is not satisfied with my answer. I'll take note of that. What I did was explain why we have received a cost increase in the field of asylum and refugee. I said it had certain explanations. I said we had to go through the models and tools we have at our disposal, so we're sure that budgeting is right and real. We will, and we will, of course, act in a proper way with respect to the Storting later on. We have to take it inward that we have a large volume on the asylum side. The government has given a number of important signals to the municipal minister about a restriction on groundless asylum seekers, and I will of course go through the very tools we have, so that we can act properly in relation to the Storting. I realized that was the essence of Hagen's question to me, and I have said that we will. How we're going to deal with it is just one answer to that. Then we have to deal with it in such a way that it's predictable what we're doing, and known for the Storting. With regard to the Oslo police district, I said I haven't gone into all the details. I'm waiting for a report back in overtime. But I mentioned the additional appropriations that have been allocated for 2002, which are known sizes, and at the same time I said that there has been a rigidity between the provision that prevents too much overtime and the possibility of delegation from posts. I stand by this, and of course I will follow up on the governance dialogue with the Police Directorate in order to be sure you won't get involved in the kind of organisational issues. If that's enough money, it's always going to be a general political question. For example, the Progress Party believes that: That we have too little money. The government parties believe that what we have presented should give a good starting point, and then that debate will continue later in the forms it needs when you see how to solve the crime challenge. But the budget I have now, I think is a useful starting point for doing a good job in Oslo as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1403	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1407	In the exchange of lines, the Council of State referred to the means given. If I'm not completely wrong, it's the ones that are here for adoption. Then it is well to anticipate the events something to point out that the Oslo Police Chamber already has this money at its disposal. Or is it so to understand that the Government considers these items to be estimates in reality, but does it not want to propose it in terms of purely formality? For when items are not estimates, while one nevertheless, for example. as under the hood. 440, argues that there has been more activity — yes, there is hardly anything but a mere budget line. Would it not then have been equally real to do what to do with budget headings, namely to show the difference in the budget and the accounts, and then, if necessary, to deal with the Riksrevision and the Storting when that matter comes, with any comments? If the reasons are good, it may well be that the Riksrevision has the same understanding as the majority of the Stortinget. With regard to the ABCDE conference, I just want to stress that this has not been meant in any way as a criticism of the Oslo Police Chamber. It is not the Oslo Police Chamber that has decided to hold this conference in Oslo. As far as I understand it, it was the government that provided it. What we want is to get equivalent cost estimates of this before the money is spent. At least one could expect to do so immediately after the conference was held, at least not to be sent when there is a month left by the Stortinges session this year. But there's also another thing I'm wondering about, and that's the total final sum. I have understood that the Government is very concerned about the rule of action and the pressure in the Norwegian economy. That is, as far as I can understand, the reason why a transfer of real estate cannot be made from one department to another department in one year. It is therefore, as I understand it, economically justified that the internal transfer of Vardåsen clay must be taken over three years. Or, if that's not true, the reason must be that the Ministry of Defence can hardly be trusted with so much money in a year. But in any case, this government's fear of the pressure in the economy has been particularly evident both in relation to the 2002 budget and in relation to the 2003 budget. If the Progress Party questions the bottom line of the budget, there will be allegations of irresponsibility and one and the other. But when the Department and the Government themselves just choose to let the money roll and spend at least 120 million on this budget. kr extra, then there is no pressure in the economy. I would like to know why it creates pressure in the economy if the Progress Party had increased the judicial budget by 120 million. kr in December, so that one had had a complete and good budgeting on this money, and not when the government just lets the money rustle and go through the year, and comes to the same final sum. It gets a little weird when it's that there's no pressure if the government over-consumers, while there's pressure if someone budgets. A possible answer to this could be that the Government believes they themselves have brought extra pressure on the economy by the lack of enforcement of the budget they have made. And is it the case that the Ministry, in this context the Minister of Justice, believes that with his lack of budgetary discipline, he has led to a lower economy, a higher interest rate and a higher exchange rate for the Kingdom of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1421	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 772]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1434	We then vote in favour of the issues listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1789	The President will note that this is the only framework area that has a chance of being unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1802	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 7-9, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the The President will first address minority proposals outside the framework. Proposals Nos. 10, 11 and 12, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a ban on placing more prisoners on one-man cells.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose that duplication take place only where the prisoners and staff concerned agree to this.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for a total ban on the use of full isolation in prisons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1843	Proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider whether to provide legal assistance to persons applying for access to their own directory under the Transparency Act. This is taken from heading 70 Subchapters. Heading 1 Operating expenditure, if applicable.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to investigate the cost aspects of the retroactive effect of the Act on the Compensation of Victims, one, two or three years longer than the current provisions.’ This is where the Center Party has notified aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1867	Proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate private activities in prison in Norway, in accordance with public policy.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider setting up a prison officer training in North Norway, located in Bodø. In the assessment, the Government should examine whether cooperation between the Bodø Police College and the Bodø College will give positive professional and economic results in such an establishment.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1889	Proposals Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size is requested by the Government to grant 3 million. Extras to Alternatives to Violence in the Revised National Budget in 2003.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Alternatives to Violence have a stable and extended framework as from the financial year 2004 in order to extend the offer to far more violent people than today’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider how to ensure that prisoners receive equal treatment regardless of their place of residence for the implementation of Section 12 zoning.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the transparency period for its own directory under the Transparency Act by two years, and asks the Government to immediately submit a legislative proposal for the Stortinget allowing the Transparency Act to apply until 2005.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider raising the income limit for the receipt of free legal aid to NOK 250000 with effect from 1 January 2004.’» The Central Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e1929	So we're going to deal with area 5 and minority proposals related to this. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e4919	There is an alternative proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e6419	Then you still have to vote over the setting's B.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e6464	Here the whole committee is behind the option. The centre party has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e6478	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. It will first be weighed over chapters 400, 461, 471, 477 and 5630.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e6672	It will then be weighed over chapters 414, 430, 440, 470, 3410, 3430 and 3440.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e6921	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against these chapters.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e6933	Then there's still going to be a vote over the cap. 441.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e6970	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The 2002 budget shall be amended as follows: 441Oslo Police District1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter 1. 440 item 1 will be increased by 150 000 000 from NOK 1 137 983 000 to NOK 1 287 983 000’ The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, has made it clear that the words «can be transmitted» in the event of an incurrency have been omitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-05.ana.ud2615e7025	There is no record.
