ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e63	From the representatives Morten Højlund and Finn Kristian Marthinsen there are applications for leave in the days of 4 and 5 June, and from the representative Eli Sollied Överaas for leave in the period from 4 June to 6 June, all for participation in the 48th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, Part I, in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ola T. Heggem
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e107	The Committee has examined the Ombudsman’s name for the defence report on the activities between 1 January and 31. of December 2001. I just want to point out a few areas that the committee has noticed. In 2001, 87 complaints were dealt with with with a proportion of 40 p.m. The proportion of complainants who have been supported is slightly above the average in recent years, and the Committee is pleased that the extensive conversion and downsizing of the defence have not resulted in an increase in the number of complaints. In the case of the disciplinary situation, the number of penalties has decreased in recent years. It is reported by the Ombudsman that, compared with 1999, there has been a small increase in the number of penalties in both the Naval, Air Force and Joint Institutions, but that this increase is more than offset by a clear decrease in penalties by the Army departments. However, the Committee points to the fact that there has been an increase in the number of drug law offences between 1999 and 2000 and would point out that there needs to be a strong emphasis on a wide-ranging response to the problem of drugs in defence. It is important to take the problem of drugs very seriously. The Chief of Defence's implementing directive for the introduction of minimum rates for welfare purposes must be complied with by the military departments in order to achieve the intended non-discrimination of soldiers. I'm pointing out that the defence committee in Innst. S No 315 for 2000-2001 the Ministry of Defence requested that this Directive be complied with. Some progress has been made in the positive direction. However, in its comments, the Committee asked the Ministry of Defence to state what measures have been taken to improve this situation. The adult training budget must be maintained at a level that ensures that the education provision in the Defence Service is perceived as a real compensation for the study and training losses caused by military service. The adult training offer in the Defence is valuable in helping to reduce youth unemployment after military service and for meaningful leisure during military service. The budget for adult training should continue to be made available and allocated as earmarked central resources, so that coordinated education provision is ensured financially. Cooperation between adult training, the Swedish Defence Agency and the sessions should be strengthened with a view to facilitating the better planning of adult training services for those under protection during their term of service. In the report, the Ombudsman concerned the matter of physical abuse of captured soldiers during the exercise ‘Joint Winter 2001’. The Committee has raised this matter with the Ministry of Defence, which in its reply of 13 May 2002 describes the status of the case and the measures in place to avoid such events in future exercises. In its comments, the Committee has paid particular attention to the operational nature of the responsibility for exercises and the specific responsibilities of the trainer. We stress that there is a need to make strict demands on knowledge about the applicable rules in this area. The protection issue is addressed in the report to the Ombudsman. Issues relating to protection grants as a bonus for the provision of initial services and other matters relating to the subject-matter of compulsory protection will be addressed by the Committee in the context of the examination of St. pp. No 55 for 2001-2002, the implementation proposal, to be addressed in the spring. There is cause for concern about the strong understaffing of the defence, especially during the summer months, when many guardians are subjected to a very high workload with very long working days. The Ombudsman’s office includes, inter alia: requests received with messages relating, inter alia, to: service assessments of more than 100 hours per. week. This is unacceptable. The Committee will ask the Ministry of Defence for an assessment of the most appropriate measures to address the problems of heavy understaffing during the period June-October, and share the view that this cannot continue as part of the defence service system. I recommend the committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e130	It is with pleasure that I notice that the conversion and dismantling of the defence has not led to an increase in the number of complaints, and that it is in the social affairs group for the soldiers there are still a small number of complaints, and that there are fewer penalties. However, I fully agree with both the Committee and the rapporteur that there are also aspects of defence that give cause for concern. Increasing use of drugs in society also increases the use rate among vulnerable groups. I can assure the Committee that we are taking the problem very seriously and that we will fight it with targeted efforts across a broad spectrum. I'm also glad that the head of defense is practicing zero tolerance on this issue. With regard to the exercise ‘Joint Winter’ and the matters raised by the rapporteur, I would like to refer to my letter to the Committee on 13 May and add that of course we fully agree that there is an overall operational responsibility for such matters, and that this should be handled satisfactorily in the future. I have also noted the Committee's views in various areas, including the understaffing of soldiers in the summer months and the lack of follow-up at the departments on the use of minimum rates for the allocation of welfare funds. Of course, I will follow up the requests made in the vote and join the Committee's recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e141	Document No 5 for 2001-2002 tells us a lot about the defence activities at good and bad. The main message is that the defense works reasonably well, but that everything can get better. I want to take two small things – maybe not small, but at least two things. One concerns combating drug problems in military departments. We see that the number of cases reported by the police has decreased, and seizures have also decreased. That, of course, is joyous. At the same time, however, it can be seen that dog checks and inspections have fallen, i.e. that the defence has had fewer controls. It worries me. I believe that this is so important that the defence must intensify and perhaps have even more controls than they have had. For if, and I emphasize if, someone who treats weapons, ammunition, light and heavy vehicles etc. in the defence, is influenced by something, these must of course be removed. We could also read in the Defence Forum No. About 8 soldiers on hidden narcotics. It could have been exciting to hear what the Council of State thinks about this. The other thing I want to spend a little time on is adult education. That, of course, is an important part of the well-being service of the soldiers. But as it works today, not everyone has equal opportunities to be involved in this. This may be due to the burden of watchkeeping, it may be uneven with exercises — some have many and fewer exercises — or other services that make it difficult to participate. The ability to participate in this needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e153	Just a short additional comment from my side. Of course, I share Mr Bredvold's concern about drug use in the Defence Department, as I also said in my speech. With regard to responses to drugs, a specific action plan is in place and will be continued. The defence has also just organized a large conference on drug abuse among soldiers to provide further action for the future. I fully agree with the representative Bredvold that being a drug addict is not compatible with using weapons. I also underline that by saying that I support the defense chief's zero tolerance. I got a very specific question related to this with users on hidden lists. It's a matter that's been known through the media. There, of course, the defense will comply with the rules for registration that apply. We will take sufficient account of privacy, so that the registration that has taken place has been reversed, and it has also been announced by the Defence Department. Here, we're complying with the Data Protection Regulation, in line with everyone else. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e178	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e194	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e210	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e226	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2911]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e241	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e250	The agenda went very fast today! We have then come to the matter concerning two Document No. Eight proposals – on norms for care pay in all municipalities, and on pensions and social security for those who receive care pay at the same time as they have a public pension. Both of these proposals have been promoted by the Progress Party and the Committee has chosen to examine them together. An overall committee stresses the importance of this care pay scheme by the fact that those who carry out the care work like to do it in their own home, or at least in the care provider’s home, and in that way it is the most ‘natural’ care that you can have. The caregiver can get to be in his home environment, and at the same time there is a strength for those who have to do this work anyway. We have said that this care allowance should at least be in line with the wage level in the home care sector. Similarly, the Minister of Social Affairs said in a letter to the Committee of 29 April this year. So far the committee is united. With regard to the introduction of standard rates of pay for care proposed by the proposers, the Committee has shared its views. A majority of the Workers' Party and Government Parties ask the Government to review the care pay system to see how it works today and in what areas it should be improved. This majority also points out that a State reimbursement scheme could lead to adverse distortions in relation to the types of action the municipalities choose to take. This majority proposes that document No. 8:61 is appended to the minutes. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre wish to draw up norm rates for care pay in the municipalities, pointing out that this would mean that there would be little variation from municipality to municipality as regards the level of pay to be paid and the extent to which the remuneration is to be paid. As regards the second proposal, Document No: 8:95, the Stortinget has previously dealt with Document No. 8:50 for 1998-99 in Innst. S. No 13 for 1999-2000 said that we want the Government to investigate the consequences of the 1-year rule for all groups affected by it in terms of popular and paid work. In St. prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 the Government wrote that it assessed the introduction of a temporary non-entry fee when future working capacity was uncertain and that it was to investigate this with a view to presenting an oeuvre proposal by the last harvest. However, no proposals have been made by the Government in this area. An overall committee now proposes setting a limit of 1G for income other than social security benefits that can be received when performing care-paid work. It is important that this is put in place, so that you do not get a pension loss, which means that you do not see yourself able to do care work in the first year you have a care allowance and at the same time you are a non-pensioner. Caring is difficult and demanding. In many cases, older women carry out this work, and we should then facilitate the combination of disability benefits and pay to the extent that it is desirable to do so. To this end, the Committee proposes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Regulation of 30 April 1997 No. 0392 § 4 so that persons who receive a care allowance are also exempted from the second paragraph of Section 12-12 of the Swedish Social Security Act. The income before any shortening of the social security should be set at 1 G. The amendment shall apply from 1 January 2003.’» The Committee also points out that the spouse supplement is curtailed for the disabled person when the spouse’s/partner’s care allowance is more than 1 G. The Committee considers this to be unreasonable and asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner with an assessment of raising this threshold, so that the couple together can receive a reasonable income.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e279	Recording the suggestions in the configuration?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e282	I'm sorry, President! I am addressing the two proposals from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party that are in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e289	Ola D. Glötvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e292	We must note that the care pay scheme is practised differently in different municipalities. It concerns the number of hours accepted by the municipality, as well as the level of hourly earnings. The Labour Party, as is the case with the rest of the Committee, is committed to ensuring that care should be provided as much as possible regardless of where you live in the country and that care pay should be included as a real part of the provision of care and services by the municipality. There is a basis for improving the care pay system and there is a basis for clear guidelines on the level and extent of care pay concessions. To this end, a majority of the Committee of Governments is asking for a review of its functioning today and to come back with proposals on how to improve it. In this context, the working party believes that caregivers must be guaranteed a pay position in line with what is normal for home workers. Furthermore, if the care provider has training specifically qualifying him for such care, he/she must be compensated for this by making his/her remuneration proportionate to the qualifications of the care provider, provided that the need for care requires this qualification. Furthermore, the Workers' Party believes that it is unreasonable for the spouse allowance to be curtailed for it when the spouse's or spouse's care allowance is more than 1 G. That limit should be raised. The Workers' Party also believes that unearned pensioners who take care of themselves and receive care pay are treated in the same way as those who have political or trust incomes in voluntary organisations, so that they are exempted from the one-year waiting period provided for in order to obtain a 1-G free income without any consequences for their disability. The working party is concerned that municipalities should be able to have an economy that allows care to be handled as best as possible. In doing so, the working party is concerned with the overall offer and wishes that people who depend on continuous assistance and care be given their individual action and follow-up plan, which is to be set up jointly by the municipalities and the caregiver according to the needs of the user. Nursing pay is relevant for those who are dependent on continuous daily care and assistance. However, a strong care provider will need a range of services in addition to private care. We believe that individual plans need to be designed in the light of individual needs, not the financing of the various actions. If different actions are financed differently — for example: by designating and financing care pay, while home and other municipal services are not financed in this way – a few may distort the service provision towards the cheapest offer for the municipality, but not necessarily the most appropriate and best for the user. The working party is therefore very sceptical about the designation of one of the measures, and believes that we need to see this in a whole chain of action for the individual. The Labour Party believes, however, that a state top-level funding scheme for resource-intensive users must be established so that each municipality has a sufficient economy to make an overall offer and thus allow municipalities to provide a comprehensive provision of care and to pay care at an adequate level in relation to their efforts. With such a grant, the municipality will be able to provide what the caregiver really needs, and it will not be determined by technical financial instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e309	First, I have to be allowed to say that even after Mr. Glötvold asked a long time ago – it was certainly because it went a little faster than expected here today – he made an excellent contribution, to which the Progress Party in this matter can definitely join. It is clear that the majority here too have now realised that some of the issues relating to care pay in Norway have been misjudged, or at least that some of the schemes have to be looked at again. After all, the whole committee wants a change in the system, that is to say, it is quite obvious, because although we do not get a majority of the norm rates and the state extra funding of 50 p.m. today, the majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, say that at least we want a review of the system of care pay to see how it works. But we are therefore critical of the state co-financing, which the representative Hildeng had in mind in his speech. It is at least a joyous day when we have removed one of the unfairness of care pay. This applies to the 1-year rule, which means that if you have care tasks and you lose weight, you get a one-year waiting time before you drop the abbreviation in the disability level. It's at least very good that it's being removed. I must also make a small comment to the representative Hildeng, who, from the point of view of the Labour Party – I just have to remind you that the government that is currently sitting has actually only been sitting for less than a year – has had the opportunity to promote these proposals in the past, but has not done so. I must also say to the Government's defense, although it is not my job to defend it, that even though the Storting now imposes some things on it, it is the judgements that the Government is to make. I hope, then, that the Council of State – perhaps having a post here afterwards – will ensure that this work is continued, so that a broad review of the care pay system is possible with a view to a change in order to improve the situation for those who need it. Through these two proposals, the Progress Party has tried to bring about some changes, for the benefit of those in need of care. But it also gives those who provide care an opportunity to get a certain financial contribution to provide the care that actually becomes a municipal responsibility if there is no one who can provide care at home. It's in this context that these things are very important. It is also important, as the representative for Lutvold was involved in his statement, that there is a need for remuneration for the individual to be critical of the qualifications of the care provider. So it's important that we get these things in place. It is at least a happy day when we get something here today, and I hope that the Stortinget on a later occasion, after evaluations have been made by the Government, can also reason on the other part.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e324	Since several of the speakers have expressed surprise at the rapid progress of today's meeting, the President will allow himself to note that he assumes that this is a positive surprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e327	The aim of SV is that Norwegian municipalities should have such a well-developed care and care provision that those who need it and want it can get it through the public sector, either in the form of home-based services, nursing homes, old-age homes or nursing homes. Therefore, further development of both the capacity and the quality of these services is a priority task for us. This means, among other things: that we need to continue the action plan on care for the elderly, which is now being treated here in the United Kingdom. It includes both the capacity of housing units and the qualitative upgrading of the services announced by the Government and supported by SV. In order to get closer to all these objectives, it is therefore imperative that the Stortinget, while we are doing this, ensure that the local economy is able to do so. The signals in the municipal bill are in this way, as SV sees it, very negative. However, today’s situation is that we continue to depend on the efforts of the many – mainly women – who are doing care for their neighbors at home and who are able to receive care pay for this effort. We'll have that situation for a long time to come. The level of care pay varies greatly from municipality to municipality. SV wants the socially useful efforts they make to be properly valued. This means that those who provide care must be guaranteed a salary in line with what is common to caregivers, as stated in the case. It is not acceptable for thousands of women, often older women, to carry out part of the heavy and strenuous work for unreasonably low wages. Indeed, the option for many of these could have been a ‘normal’ job life outside the home, with all the positive elements involved. We also believe that it is unfair and totally unfair that wages should vary as much from municipality to municipality as they do today. It is then necessary to ensure that this work is valued in the same way, regardless of where you live. That is why we are promoting proposals together with the Progress Party and the Centre to ask the Government to draw up binding minimum standards for minimum wages. Although the whole Committee agrees in principle that such minimum standards are desirable, as Harald T. Nesvik also pointed out, unfortunately the proposal does not get a majority. The majority folds back for this, because it works for example. will have an impact on the finances of municipalities. Yes, it will obviously have, and therefore the minority will also follow this up by proposing that the state co-finance care pay by at least 50 pst., just so that the Storting should not do what unfortunately happens all too often: the Storting wants improvements and better quality of both this and hints, we make our decisions accordingly, and then leave to the municipalities to do the job. Because it is the municipalities that are primarily responsible for implementing the improvements that we are adopting here in this Chamber. It is also true in this case. This way of doing so, many municipalities, rapporteurs and other municipal politicians from all parties are starting to get quite tired of it. Therefore, we should not now send this bill to the municipalities, but take our responsibility to pay the costs. So that's going to be the smaller number by going in for at least 50 pst. State sub-financing. In addition, SV believes that it must be right and fair that those who have an education that makes a particular qualification for this type of work receive this compensation in a reasonable way. This is also agreed by the majority. We also believe that it is now time to remove the unfairness of the fact that the beneficiaries of the care allowance have not been exempted from the second paragraph of Section 12-12 of the Swedish Social Security Act, and then wish that beneficiaries of the care allowance should be able to have an income of up to 1 G before any shortening of the social security takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e344	Both Documents No The 8 proposals that we are dealing with today are promoted by the Progress Party. I want to give them credit for that. Care pay has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party for a long time. Society is completely dependent on the efforts of relatives for caring family members. Today, municipalities have a statutory obligation to have wages and relief measures for those who have a particularly burdensome care job. The salaries of relatives taking on such important, useful and necessary work are absolutely correct. The Christian People's Party believes that care pay should be as similar as possible, regardless of where you live in the country. Nor should the criteria and justifications for receiving care pay vary so much between municipalities. It is important that caregivers with similar carework are treated equally. It is good that the Ministry has given a clear signal that the level of hourly pay should be in line with what is common for home workers. It is important that a follow-up be given to this opinion, so that it serves as an indicative guide for municipalities in practice. It is positive that the Ministry of Social Affairs has carried out a pilot project in Stavanger, Bodø and Notodden to look at care pay in families with disabled children. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the results of the trials, which will be completed in 2003. We want the Government to review the welfare pay system to see how it works today and in what areas it should be improved. This necessarily takes some time, and we are therefore voting today on concrete proposals to which we are basically positive, and are asking for Document No. 8:61 is appended to the minutes. Christian People's Party supports the intentions of Document No. 8:95 for 2001-2002, so that persons receiving care pay are also exempted from the second paragraph of Section 12-12 of the Swedish Social Security Act. It is unreasonable that non-pensioners who take care of themselves and receive care pay receive different payments depending on whether the care pay is allowed before or after a disability. We support the proposal to set a limit of 1 G on income other than social security benefits received. The Swedish Social Security Agency informs us that there are about 1,200 people who are receiving a disability pension and a care allowance today. I think it's great that so many decapitators use their extra powers to help their neighbors.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e368	Care pay, as pointed out by the Committee, is an important mechanism for supporting care activities carried out by people who are close to the care provider. Social security benefits are currently available to municipalities after a discretionary assessment, and it is correct, as the Committee points out, that there are different practices in municipalities in terms of pay for care. I have taken note of the Committee's view that pay for care should be provided in the same way as possible, irrespective of where you live, and also the points of view in terms of pay placement. The majority ask the Government to review the care pay scheme in order to look at how it works and in which areas it should be improved. I'll follow up on this. In this review, I would also like to take a closer look at the views of the minority in the setting. As regards Document No: 8:95, there is a unanimous committee which supports the proposal to amend the regulation so that persons receiving care pay are also exempted from the provisions of the second paragraph of § 12-12 of the Swedish Social Security Act and are considered in the same way as by compensation for political duties or trust in organisations in respect of exemptions from the waiting time rules for the reassessment of disability pension, and that, therefore, care pay is not to be taken into account under the basic amount of the social security system in the event of the granting of a disability pension. I agree with the Committee's assessments of this proposal and will follow up with the necessary regulatory changes. So, to the articles of Mr Glötwold's report. I just want to say that it was the Stoltenberg government as in St. pp. No 1 promised to propose a temporary disability benefit, as proposed by the Sandman Committee in the autumn of 2001. This government has taken up this and will shortly make such a proposal. We also want to address here the question of the 1-year rule for all groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e384	It was gratifying to hear that the Council of State in the work to be carried out in a review of the care pay system will also take into account the comments made by the minority in that case. I think that's a very positive signal from the Council of State. But after attending the treatment of St. reported. No 4 for 2001-2002 in this room for a little while back, I find reason to ask the Council of State about the progress of the work she intends to do in the review of the care pay system. Then my question is: Will this be a priority task for the Council of State, so that you can get a case reasonably quickly to the Grand Council, as the Storting wants to be able to take the necessary decisions? I hope that the Council of State can say something more about the progress and how she wants to put emphasis on this, so that it does not go winter and spring and perhaps a new growing-up period before we get a new case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e391	To the question of whether this is a priority problem, the answer is yes. Before winter and spring comes summer and autumn. We are already doing the work, and I promise to make rapid progress in relation to this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e396	First, a comment on what I said about St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002. That it was originally presented by the Stoltenberg government is correct. But then came a supplementary and corrective version from the Bondevik II government. There was nothing to say that one had not intended to make an odelstingsproposition on this later in the fall, so that what was not corrected had to be taken into account by the government that made up only a supplementary proposition to what one had already assumed. Then I want to ask the Council of State about two things. I showed that the spouse supplement is shortened for the disabled person when the spouse's or cohabiting spouse's care allowance is more than 1 G. The Committee calls on the Government to return to this matter in an appropriate manner, so as to enable it to be adjusted. So finally, a majority in the Committee – Workers’ Party, Right and Christian People’s Party – says that ‘a government reimbursement system can lead to unfortunate distortions of the types of action the municipalities choose to take’. I would like to hear what kind of action the Minister for Social Affairs thinks is unfortunate here in relation to distortion — priority use or the wrong priority of action schemes. This has been said in connection with the absence of a standard allowance for care pay now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e407	As for what goes on with the spouse's supplement, I'm going to follow up on what's the committee's attitude. I've also noticed the views of the minority, and I'm going to make an assessment that has an overall impact. So we want to evaluate all relationships. With regard to what is going on with unfortunate distortions – I think that was the word used by the representative – there are many arguments that speak both for and against, but the starting point is that I am going to follow up on the committee's position. I'm going to take into account the minority's assessments in the overall assessment that the ministry will make.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e414	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e419	I tried to be the case rapporteur for the matter at a rather fast pace, and a bit hesitant. I also want to be a little central party representative when it comes to these questions about care pay, and like what I said at the outset, I would like to say that this matter of care pay is an important matter. There is one thing that the Center Party has flagged quite high – the first time many years ago, and we got quite a bit of pepper for our vision then. It is therefore gratifying today to see that it actually begins to move in the right direction by the fact that a majority here is approaching constructive arrangements for possibly a little more state involvement in care pay, such as in particular. The representatives Nesvik and Molvik were here. I have some comments on the vote and what is said there from the majority, among other things. with regard to this with a twisting effect – I asked the Council of State a question in the same area, but I do not think I got a very good answer to it. I think it's too easy to say that we can't do state intervention and use state reimbursement schemes, because it can lead to unfortunate distortions. The representative Hildeng was in on it. I understand some of the arguments of Hildeng, but it is clear that we all believe that there should be a set of measures here. Here we have personal assistants funded by the state, we have the home care system and home care, and we have state top funding that we hope will eventually come for the heaviest users. It is the Auxiliary Agency that comes in with solutions – also funded by the State. Thus, there must be a set of solutions, not least compensation schemes and short-term housing, so that there can be variation in the daily life of both the care provider and the care provider. So I think it's said, gets a little too light. Then I would like to comment on a comment from the Right and Christian People's Party, where they point out that ‘there will be a lot of work to manage a government reimbursement scheme’. Yes, some work will at least be, but it's clear that we get the least work if we don't do any things. So I think it has to be important to point out here that if we want to have a good care pay system, and if we want to help the municipalities financially to get this in place, we have to take the administrative work. And I can't believe that we're setting up a very large bureaucratic system if the state goes in with at least 50 pst. co-financing on the care pay side. It's part of these things that I want to get into place. In addition, I think it is gratifying today that we have achieved at least some greater justice for these care employees – those who may have done unpaid care work for a long time, who have now been proved some of this work, and who see that there are problems if this is combined with disability pension. That's where we've gotten a lot further today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e437	The representative of Lutvold asked some questions as to whether State financial instruments could have adverse distortive effects. We have a long history in the area of municipal welfare and in the provision of services, which suggests that different forms of funding can lead to the development of services that are not necessarily the best. We had it in our time in the area of child protection, we have it in the area of care – we have it in a number of areas. And here, too, the Center Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have a minority comment that just indicates that you can have that kind of distortion effect. These lots consider that: «care pay should be more relevant than at present for the care and assistance of people who depend on it in their everyday life and at home.» And then it just comes from such recognition that it can have distortive effects: ‘This will also be able to relieve the municipality in the case of old-age homes and sick homes, thereby saving the municipality for expenditure.’ This cannot be the objective underlying care pay. One must assume that the care allowance is the best for the individual caregiver, and therefore that person must be in the centre. That is why the Labour Party has said that we need top funding for highly resource-intensive users. We can then make a care offer for the individual and focus on the individual, rather than on the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e452	I'll try to stay very objective about what we're doing right now. I agree that there can be arrangements that can cause distortions, but I want to hear what unfortunate distortions can come here, and I do not think I have heard from anyone. I agree with the representative Hildeng that there should be a set of instruments, and I also said that in my previous post. But I cannot, with my best will, understand that good arrangements that at the same time save society – in this case the municipality – for resources should be unfortunate. After all, it must be a good argument for introducing these schemes that there may be savings in other areas. I do not mean that the municipalities should not have, among other things. institutional capacity – it must have absolute capacity – including, inter alia,: relief places and long-term places where people can no longer be at home, even with home-based care from family or from the public. It has to be that we can have two thoughts in our head at the same time, and that good arrangements for each user can at the same time be good arrangements for the public and be economical in addition. It's very important, I think. And then a little bit to this top finance scheme. The government Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party could have come with them when they sat at the rudder. It could also have brought others in a better way, for example. When we sat at the rudder, I'll admit that. We made an arrangement then, but it has never been working well. Before we show that the state top finance model is what must solve everything, we must at least have it there. At the same time, I believe that the state top funding model also has its weaknesses in incorporating all kinds of measures. State top finance will only be for those who are in a very difficult care situation, and therefore we must have something for those who, among other things. may be longer at home with a State co-financing on the care pay side. It is not always heavy users, but it is users who can largely manage themselves if they get some help from both the family and the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e461	The President will assume that there is access to an unlimited number of thoughts in his head at the same time. Several have not asked for the floor, so the debate on the subject is no. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e480	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e489	The case we now have to deal with has its background in two Document No. 8 proposals, with very similar content and with the same intentions – in the case of Document No. 8:66 and Document No 8:96, which the President has just referred to. The Social Committee has therefore chosen to examine these two Document Nos. The 8 proposals together with common comments and common position. Both proposals are designed to amend the law so that the sale of beers and wine is permitted in grocery stores and specialised stores, and not currently traded only through the sale of the wine monopoly. A broad majority of the Committee – all parties except the Advancement Party – disagrees with such a legislative amendment and therefore proposes in the vote that the two Documents Nos. The eight proposals are rejected. I will explain the majority's views and the reasons for the majority's position, and expect representatives of the minority in the debate to explain their views. The majority want to maintain a system of a State wine monopoly with regard to the placing on the market and sale of beverages with an alcoholic strength of more than 4,75 p.m. In the view of the majority, this is the best way to ensure both the consideration of alcohol sales in strictly controlled and orderly forms and the availability of legal alcoholic beverages. Nor is this a strange scheme, as stated in one of Document No. The 8 proposals, and I will show that both Sweden and Finland have similar arrangements. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that this case shows a very broad political upturn in the state wine monopoly system in Norway and that it will continue in the future. The majority believe that the wine monopoly system has well achieved the objective of controlling the movement of alcohol. However, this does not mean that the majority is not aware of the fact that there is some significant illegal trafficking of alcohol, particularly related to home burning and alcohol smuggling. And the majority are committed to reducing both the illicit production and the illicit marketing of alcohol. But the majority do not believe that allowing starch and wine sold in ordinary shops would be a suitable means of getting homeburning and alcohol smuggling alive. Nor is border trade against Sweden, which is indicated as one of the reasons for Document No. The 8 proposals, believe the majority will be reduced in particular by the possibility of buying beer and wine at shops in Norway. Perhaps the main reason for both home burning, smuggling and growing border trade is that the price of alcohol is relatively high in Norway compared to many other countries. In the two Documents Nos. However, no proposal has been made for the 8 proposals relating to the price level of alcohol in Norway, and the majority have therefore chosen not to address this issue in detail. That question – to stick to a nearby terminology – becomes a different dish! The majority are concerned that, through the wine monopoly system, we should have good access to legal alcoholic beverages, while respecting the requirement of limited and controlled turnover. There is a worrying increase in alcohol use, not least among young people. And the majority recognize that there is a link between increased availability, increased use and increased abuse. It is important to maintain the monopoly of wine as an important alcohol policy instrument that the system has as high an upsurge in the population as possible. For this reason, it is also important for the Vinmonopolis to be able to show great credibility and competence and to be able to serve its customers in a good way within the limits given to them by the authorities. The majority are therefore satisfied with the way in which the wine monopoly has been deliberately committed in recent years to further developing its professional competence and service to the public. Consumer studies show that the wine monopoly scores high in consumers in these areas. In this way, the Vinmonopoly helps to strengthen confidence in the Norwegian society. To sum up, the majority believe that allowing wine and beer sold in grocery stores and specialist shops will mean a radical extension of the availability of stronger alcoholic beverages, both in terms of outlets and in terms of opening hours. The majority don't want this. Furthermore, such a system would significantly weaken the control of the placing on the market of such goods. In the view of the majority, this verification is best carried out by means of a wine monopoly arrangement. For this reason, the majority would ask for the approval of the two Documents Nos. The 8 proposals are rejected, and the setting is therefore recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e515	The conclusion of the two Documents Nos. The 8 proposals are in line with the Right Programme. Nevertheless, the fact that the right today will vote against the proposals is linked to the fact that this is a position that is not consistent with the Sem Declaration and not with the Government's policy. This is therefore an example of one of the issues in which the Right has stated its specific position in order to establish a cooperation in which we believe that we have a significant impact on the most important parts of our policy. And it's an assessment that it doesn't seem that the Right National Meeting was particularly disagreeable. I will therefore not argue against the very conclusion of the proposals, but will point to some of the reasons that I think are special. It is shown, among others: to cross-border trade, and that one has mainly border trade with the countries of Sweden and Denmark. But, as most people know, Sweden has similar legislation in its own country, and therefore there can't be any reason why Norwegians travel to Sweden to act. I don't think anyone will take the ferry to Denmark to have the pleasure of buying wine and starch at the store. As regards the argumentation in relation to the EU, it is also shown that there are EU countries that have similar legislation. One is also concerned about the position of the heavy beer. It is obvious that launching wine at the store would have meant that the Norwegian tradition in relation to beer would probably have been weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e524	There are a few comments that I will have to make to the previous speaker's posts. It refers to Swedish trade. It is true that Swedish trade does not go down just because of the proposal. It must be done in combination with the reduction of alcohol taxes, and also with the availability of wine for sale in shops. The representative indicates that the Right Program is broken. Yeah, you do that, that's right. I brought with me the Right Big Choice Program, because I thought that when you go to the elections on one thing and even write it in the Big Choice Program, at least it's supposed to hold it. Write Right here: ‘Righter believes it should be the same availability for wine as for beer and will allow the sale of wine and liqueur beer in the grocery stores. Municipalities must be given back the right to determine the time of donation for alcoholic beverages without being bound by time limits fixed by the Stortinget.’ In the case of the last: cf. the case which the Right voted against for a little while back, which concerned extended opening hours. This proposal is about adjusting the current monopoly regime of wine and giving Norway a law that is more in line with what it has in the rest of Europe. There are two exceptions – that's absolutely right. It is the EU countries Sweden and Finland. I think, personally, that in not so many years we will also see a change in attitudes in these countries. It refers to the control function of the Vinmonopole and the good job they do. But do you really? You could say that you have a good control function when compared to 40-50 pst. is the consumption of alcohol in Norway illegal, either via smuggling or through home burning? Then I ask myself if you really have the good control that some people claim you have. So the representative from SV, Sigbjørn Molvik, was up here and showed that if you increase availability, you get increased abuse. Then it is interesting that the same party for a little while back would set up pole sales at the service offices in the municipalities. In addition, the majority want to look at further measures to enable the wine monopoly to market its products. Does that not lead to more abuse in the view of the representative Molvik? Illegal trafficking is a problem. In order to prevent illegal placing on the market, this proposal could help, since it is at least ensured that this type of product is actually available where other types of goods are also sold for consumption. So in this context, you can influence, at least you will be given the people who want to act legitimately, the opportunity to do so. In fact, it is much easier to obtain illegal products in a number of municipalities today than it is to obtain legally negotiable goods in this country. The majority use an argument that increases accessibility is a challenge. But you go in with your eyes open so that the wine monopoly can sell its products over the Internet, and that they are to be distributed in the post office – yes, even by the mailman. Then my question is, what is so much worse about the customer being allowed to pick the goods and buy them in the grocery store? I was in the middle of a trade leak, but a little comment on it: it is interesting and a little funny to see from the comments that the Christian People's Party actually admits openly – and you would think that you would even want to do something about it, it will show you later – that the price level, the level of taxes in Norway on alcohol, is what leads to, among other things. the commercial leakage to Sweden. It has been consistently argued in the past that the alcohol charge is very little that is the cause, but rather other goods. So in this context, I think it is positive that the Christian People's Party now openly admits that the commercial leakage is, in fact, also largely due to the alcohol charges. Then I would like to remind you of the ESA judgment, which in fact implies – and the Council of State has also previously announced that it must follow up that bit – that in the case of cider and wine with an alcoholic strength of up to 4.75 p.m., it must be available for sale at the store. Then I don't think it takes many years before the majority in this Chamber will actually have an approach to Europe in this regard. There is, of course, an explicit desire from the population on the question of where to sell wine, that it should be done at the shops. In conclusion, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e553	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e556	First, I want to pay tribute to the case manager for a good job of collecting a broad cross-political plurality behind this important setting. It is essentially about two things: it is about the position of the Vinmonopolet, and it is about making an alcoholic drink available for the usual storeroom. The task of the monopoly on wine is to define and control, and then it is gratifying that one has this broad political agreement, where the parties are in charge, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has its own agenda here. We have an increasing drug problem in society, and the Christian People's Party has repeatedly pointed out that there are two things that essentially count. That's price and availability. This is not how it shocks the representative, Nesvik, especially if we're so honest that we admit that the price also has something to do with the border trade. It can't be a big sensation, but we're saying that we want to reduce the price because we have an excessive belief that it prevents it. The majority don't go into the price issue in this context, so I'm going to leave the rest of it alone. But I want to quote an important section from the plural comments in the setting: ‘The majority believe that allowing wine and liqueurs sold in grocery stores and in specialised stores would mean a radical extension of the availability of stronger alcoholic beverages — both in terms of the number of outlets and in terms of opening hours. The majority do not want this.’ For its part, the Christian People's Party will contribute actively in the future by focusing on drug problems, as we have done at all times, and we want measures to reduce the problems in society at the same time as we focus a lot on helping those who have come into trouble. It's two sides of the same thing, and the Christian People's Party has hearts for both, in the same way as the government we support. As a comment to the representative Nesvik’s reading of his right-hand program – the right can of course defend itself – I have to say that one could perceive Nesvik so that if they have a cooperation with someone, and if something is agreed on, they will have some program posts pre-emptive of what they agree with. Cooperation is such that one gives and takes – sometimes winning, sometimes losing – and that is what is the consequence of the cooperation between the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. It's obvious to everyone that we're together in some things and disagreed in others, and we've been working on this case until we've settled in. There is respect for Norwegian policy – we should perhaps be able to cooperate more closely across several parties in order to achieve good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e572	Sometimes it's a little liberating and quite satisfying to be able to go to the pulpit here without a manuscript and say that it feels both important and right to belong to a broad majority in this room. In these cases here, I think it's quite satisfactory. I believe that the fight against drug abuse is such an important issue for us and for society that it is good that we stand together – on a broad basis – in the Norwegian economy around this. And then we get to experience some populist games once in a while about this with increased availability etc. In any case, I think that there is a bad argument for these two proposals that we are dealing with today, that the control of the marketing of alcohol has failed, and that is why we must start to market beer and wine in stores. It is to extend the availability of alcohol, both in time and space, in such a way that we are at least experiencing major problems with increased control of turnover. That's why I think it's good that we have a broad majority here. I also think it is good that we have neighbouring countries that we can compare with, and I hope that the arrangements in these neighbouring countries will be maintained for a long time, even though these two countries are members of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e577	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e580	To the article by Harald Nesvik, who snarled that SV has been on proposals that will increase the availability of alcohol: it cannot come as a surprise that it is. Because alcohol is a legal product in Norway. It's allowed to buy, and it's allowed to sell. We recognise that there is a stress field between having a reasonably good availability and having a turnover in best controlled forms. We believe that the monopoly of wine is the best way to take account of these two considerations, but we recognise that easier accessibility can lead to an increased risk of abuse. What really is alarming is that the Progress Party does not see this context. So they can't be on a note where the majority say that increased availability can lead to an increased risk of abuse. That's what's alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e587	It's not that you don't see the relationship between increased availability and some degree of increased consumption, but it has a little bit of the way you refer to it. And then I want to ask the representative Molvik a question back. Beers with an alcohol content of up to 4,75 % by volume may be sold in stores. But if you get a type of beer, i.e. a type of starch, which has an alcohol content of 5.5–6 % by volume, you have to sell it at the sale of the wine monopoly. And as I understand the reason, it is believed that if heavy beer is traded in the grocery trade, it leads to increased availability, increased consumption and increased damage. Then my question is: does the representative Molvik really think that the issue of where to sell beer is relevant, and that it necessarily leads to increased consumption and damage? I mean, there's a regular beer in the store. I believe the representative from the Christian People's Party was concerned that this is a matter which is going to make alcohol sales legal in the grocery store. It is not to do so, it is to talk about, but what types of alcohol can be legally sold in the retail trade. Beer is already being sold there. And now you're going to start selling wine at the shops, as long as the alcoholic strength is less than 4.75. So that is the way the debate is angled on the Molvik side, this time as the last time I'm responding to it. And when it comes to prevention, we all agree on the importance of it. We were in it the last time the Stortingen dealt with this. It was pointed out by just all parties that prevention was important and that significant efforts had to be made in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e605	The turnover of alcohol is, as I say, a non-simplely manageable policy area, because we recognise – as the majority say, and in which the Progress Party disagrees – that there is a link between increased availability and the risk of abuse. So you can get more use, and so you can also increase abuse. And it is in this voltage field that we believe that the sale of weaker beer types can happen at the store. But we were e.g. not included in the proposal made earlier by the Advance Party in Stortinget to extend the opening hours at the beer shops. We believe that the rules of the monopoly of wine are those which best safeguard the ability of people to obtain legitimate alcoholic beverages, while this system does not lead to too much of the problems that we know the alcohol is causing. And when it comes to prevention work in relation to drug abuse, we're obviously concerned about it, but we can't do it in such a way that in one moment we say that we're in favour of prevention, and in the next we put in action measures that increase accessibility, not only marginally, but very strongly. We can't be in it the way the Progress Party is.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e614	If I have said that this debt is a sale of alcoholic beverages and not a type of alcoholic drink, I am sorry for that, and I am correcting it with this. But I would like to ask a question to the representative of Nesvik. I often hear that he refers to research. In this area, we have a clear, strong and clear research over the years that shows that the two main things that work on consumption and then damage are price and availability. My simple simple question is: Does not the Progress Party believe in this, or will they not take it inwards because it is contrary to their policies? What's the reason for this, because this is a party that in other social areas has a strong and good commitment, to which I can give a lot of credit? But in this area, it seemed as if a pinch again was ear and eye. If I could get an explanation of what made me understand it, it would be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e621	The representative Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e624	First of all, the party of progress sees it as a smart and sensible thing to do to distort alcohol consumption from stronger to weaker types of drink. This is a proposal that can contribute to it, for after this proposal, the availability of the weaker alcoholic beverages will increase, while the stronger alcoholic beverages such as spirits continue to be marketed through the same system. The second variant, in which the Christian People's Party has also participated, is to lower the fees just in order to reduce part of the illegal activity that is taking place. We see the sale of these goods at the store in connection with what is involved in illegal activities, and we want to do so while we want to lower the fees on this type of alcohol in order to get a positive effect on that as well. So this case is not about whether alcoholic beverages are to be sold in stores. The issue is what kind of alcoholic beverages are to be sold in the store. Here's what we're talking about. Beer is already being sold there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e634	Several have not asked for the word to be added to Case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2912]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e642	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e721	In the course of the debate, Mr Glötvold has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up binding norm rates for care pay in municipalities by the end of 2002’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to provide State co-financing of the care pay scheme with a minimum of 50 % of the compensation of employees in the context of the 2003 government budget.’ The proposals are being voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e743	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e750	It must be possible to correct it by shifting the number of votes by 1. The proposals of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are then 57 to 36 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e776	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for necessary legislative changes to allow the sale of wine and liqueur beers in grocery stores and in specialised stores.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-30.ana.ud1989e813	There is no record.
