ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e31	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will announce that the suspension of case No. 1 has not been outside the regulatory period — i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e47	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e54	This case concerns the law on compulsory payroll management of the employment dispute between the Norwegian Nursing Association and the Employer's Organisation (NATO) by taking over the State of the specialist. It's a special case. The state has assumed responsibility for hospital operations. Thus, the State has also assumed the responsibility of employers for large groups of employees. The state has been negotiating. The negotiations were not conducted between the Nursing Association and NATO. A broad majority in the Committee, all of them unreserved SV, supports the Government's proposal and I expect that the minority will do well for its view. There has been a small amount of time to add any comments in the setting, hence the following comments from my page: Through the strike, the Norwegian Nursing Association has shown something that is well-known: health professionals are key personnel. The health leaders have gained the most sympathy and understanding of their demands from people out there. It may be unwise for state takeovers to result in different salaries depending on the state hospital in which they are appointed, and whether they are before or after 1 January. It may also be inconceivable that the way to go for nurses who want a higher salary is through temporary employment agencies and private recruitment relationships. The size of the population in the last few years has achieved a series of comprehensive health reforms. They can only be realised for the benefit of patients through adequate access to competent health professionals. The lack of qualified personnel is currently an obstacle to good capacity utilisation and to capacity expansion in several areas within the Norwegian health system. Stable and competent labour will be the best basis for good health care, where patients are in need and where resources are used efficiently and flexibly. So the Storting has repeatedly underlined just this, for example. I mention for the first time that in connection with the management of budget revenue. S. No 11 for 2000-2001 the following unanimous decision was taken by the Stortinget: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a new action plan with further recruitment and stabilisation measures for nurses and other health professionals, as well as measures to promote more flexible work sharing between personnel groups. The action plan must also include measures on how to get more trained nurses back to the nursing profession.» And in the current year's budgetary position, the following proposals were adopted: ‘The government is asking the Government to draw up a new action plan for the recruitment of health professionals 2002-2005 focusing on concrete measures to recruit nurses and other nursing and care staff and to stabilise the manning situation.’ As I read the State Health Authority's report of March 5, I find reason to point out that it cannot be entirely on the side of raising questions about whether it is not the basic crew itself – that is, it is as low as it is – and perhaps sometimes more than the strike, which creates relationships on the borders of the irresponsible. There is a great responsibility on the Government to follow up its clear decisions to secure qualified health professionals. In taking over the ownership of hospitals by the State, the aim was, by bringing together the drug use in one hand, to improve the availability and effectiveness of the healthcare system. Today, it can be noted that the phase-in of the hospital reform is unfortunately not the framework conditions for all of them to be added, including the necessary harmonisation of the works of agreement, in place and resolved as part of the reform. Norway has ratified several ILO conventions that protect strike rights. I share the Ministry's assessment of the interpretation of the ILO's own bodies, which means that interventions in the strike can only be permitted if the strike endangers life, health or personal security for all or large parts of the population. In the handling of police laws in the Stortinget in 1993, there were several parties, including the Center Party, who went against giving the strike back to the police. We didn't mean the striker wouldn't be real. The same question can actually be raised when adding liabilities in the health sector. There is a need for greater trust between the government and the organisations. Here, there is a need for a negotiating climate that over time is a factor in raising an unworthy conflict situation. The Health Authority concludes that a strike can no longer be excluded as a risk to life and health. There is particular reason to note the situation of Health Sunnmaøre HF Ålesund Hospital and to announce from Health Förde where it is called that they can no longer provide a defensive offer of needed health care. The majority of the committee is unable to review the Health Authority's report, and we therefore give our support to the Government's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e86	The right to strike is a recognised right in Norwegian law and the protection of international law, and society must address the problems that a strike entails. However, there has been a general consensus in Norway that there are limits to the severity of the adverse effects that can be accepted. That's what this case is about. International law allows for intervention in strikes that could put life, health and personal safety at risk to the population. I choose here to deal with and take seriously the assessments made by the State Health Inspectorate of the consequences of the nursing strike. In the March 5 report this year, the Health Inspectorate stated that they could no longer exclude that the strike could lead to a risk to life and health, which was also reinforced by individual messages from an increasing number of troubled patients and relatives around the country. The strike had lasted six weeks and 1,190 nurses at 28 hospitals were taken out on strike, and a new escalation was announced. Health surveillance assessments were carried out on the basis of the reports of regional health companies, and the conditions in Health Mid-Norway and Health West were highlighted in particular. The conclusion was clear: there was reason to warn that they could no longer rule out the possibility that the strike could lead to a risk to life and health. In addition, when we know that the parties had failed to open new negotiations, there was a lot of pointing towards us facing a rather stuck conflict, where the strike could be very lengthy. This is a short and well-founded basis for the government parties in Stortinget to support the resolution of the conflict between the Norwegian nurses' association and the employer's association NATO without further work. This is also clearly reflected in the current position of the Municipal Committee, where the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, together with the members of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Central Party, have no comments, but agree with the legislative proposal of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e95	Yes, that's what we get shut up and get accused of interfering with the social partners, for example. when we believe that there should be an equal pay pot in the context of wage fixing and that kind of thing. But I feel that in relation to the social partners, we have the most tidy relationship in this case here. Our opinion is that the active use of compulsory pay terms used by different governments in relation to the conflicts in the world of work does not mean that the parties themselves are trying to find solutions through negotiations to a large extent. This means that the parties can easily speculate that the Government intervenes with pay terms. That is when we would stress that the parties themselves are responsible for finding solutions through free negotiations, and believe that if we had had a higher threshold to intervene with pay terms, it would result in a greater pressure on the parties to conclude agreed agreements. SV believes that the overall manning situation in the health sector is such that there is very little or nothing to go on before a crisis occurs. This is not a situation that occurred during the strike. The staffing crisis in the health sector is something that has arisen over a long period of time because of inadequate budgets and too little effort to provide proper human resources. We would like to point out that with such a low staffing as is available in many hospital departments, employers can, for example: by not sending reasoned dispensation requests for persons and functions in situations of conflict, provoke a forced pay bill. If you look at the letter sent by the Health Inspectorate to NATO on 15 February 2002, which states that NATO itself is not sure about its procedures for the care of life and health during the strike and has asked the Health Inspectorate for assistance to establish good practice, you can see that the Health Inspectorate expresses that this is the responsibility of the parties. The correspondence between the Norwegian Nursing Association and NATO shows that the practice has been that NATO applies for a derogation from the strike for groups of employees. This method makes it impossible to strike in principle because it is assumed that a derogation is granted to all strikers at a workplace. The nurses’ association states that the dispensation requests are processed by local strike managers and that they grant exemptions to named persons and duties, guards and functions covered by the termination of the place in order to avoid risks to life and health. From this point of view, it seems to us that it is the routines of the employer v/NATO who has put health businesses in a difficult situation and that another practice is possible to avoid endangering life and health. Then it is wrong for the government to intervene in accordance with our opinion. We will also focus on the fact that when the Health Authority said that they could no longer ‘exist that the strike could lead to a risk to life and health’, it is, in my opinion, a far weaker formulation than the one that has been used by the Health Authority on previous occasions. This again underlines that if NATO does its job as a party to a conflict, there will be no danger to life and health, and then we avoid the use of forced pay. And that is in our opinion good enough reason to oppose the use of forced pay in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e110	The freedom of negotiation with access to the use of means of combat is a fundamental democratic right. It is my view and the government's view that the social partners are responsible for the income and working peace. This implies that the pressures of a labour conflict are something that the rest of society must accept. However, it is generally accepted that the right to use labour is not unlimited. There's going to be a limit. In the conflict between the Norwegian Nursing Association and the employer’s association NATO, this limit was reached when the strike gradually reached a duration that could lead to a risk to life and health. When the nurses' union started the strike on 22 January, it was initially at a level that did not present an immediate risk to life and health. The situation was difficult for patients exposed to outpatient investigation and treatment, but no life-threatening or other serious consequences were reported. The strike, however, was continuously escalated during the following weeks, so that 1,190 nurses in a total of 28 hospitals were on strike on 1 March. By this time the conflict had lasted six weeks. In its ongoing reports, state health surveillance had expressed growing concern, mainly because among patients waiting for diagnosis, there was a risk that the extended waiting period could pose a risk to life and health. In addition, an increasing number of patients waiting to be diagnosed were hospitalized as immediate help patients. This could eventually cause serious capacity problems. On the evening of March 5, the State’s health authorities reported that they could no longer rule out a risk to life and health. They showed in their report, among other things: to the situation of Ålesund Central Hospital, where the strike affected the planned investigation activities. This increased the risk of delayed diagnostics and treatment for, among others, cancer patients. I had a meeting with the parties on Friday 1 March, where I invited them to investigate the possibilities of entering into new negotiations. The parties had several meetings in the following days, but found no basis for further negotiations. The strike had at that time lasted six weeks, and everything suggested that the conflict would be very long. The government then saw no other option than to propose the use of the compulsory payroll to stop the strike, based on the information then generated on 5 March from the State Health Authority. In a new meeting with the parties in the evening of March 5th, I informed them about the Government's decision, and advised the Norwegian Nurse Association to return to work. The nurses’ association met this and immediately cancelled the strike. All the members who had been on strike were back at work during Wednesday, March 6. The government is of the opinion that compulsory payroll is to be kept to a minimum. In principle, therefore, it will be where life and health are threatened we will intervene. The question of whether and, where appropriate, when to intervene in a labour conflict will always be difficult and must depend on a concrete assessment of the individual conflict. However, in the light of the conclusions drawn by the State Health Authority in relation to this conflict, the Government felt that it had no choice. Both in the short and long term, a continuing strike would have dramatic consequences, and there was no indication that the parties to the conflict could come up with a negotiated solution. The problem with getting a warning that you can no longer rule out a risk to life and health is, of course, that it will be a political decision to consider whether to go further if you have not been given a very clear advice. Going further could mean that life had gone with it. It was a problem related to the organisation of the strike, not only because NATO had problems implementing its exemption systems, but also because of the fact that it was not possible to assess in advance whether there had been any withdrawals that would not be met by exemptions, which could lead to a lack of adequate staffing at a given time. It was a case in point where the State Health Inspectorate was in and took care of dialogue between the employer and the employee and solved them during the whole strike. For me and for the Government, it was essential that at the moment when questions could be asked about whether it was proper, the government could not impose more on the question of human life or permanent health damage. Then, in this debate, some important issues that concern the problems in general in the health sector are addressed. It is obvious that there is low staffing, and it is obvious that there is a shortage of nurses and health professionals in general in Norway. This is why the Government agrees that we should have a development, take a better recruitment step and have other tools, to get more health workers in the years to come, and not least on the nurse side. But I want to stress that this matter is not about the role of the hospital owner, nor about the political responsibility of operating hospitals. In this case, we act, both magnificence and government, as those who are going to intervene to ensure that patients do not suffer undue overload in relation to an ongoing labour conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e131	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e139	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e172	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e185	President! I voted wrong. I voted against, I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e192	The votes 57 and 9 will then be against the position of the Committee, which has been adopted. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects SV to vote against this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14-lower.ana.ud2095e208	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
