ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e51	The representative of Thore A. Nistad, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternates of the South Trondelag counties, Ola Røtvei and Egil Hestnes, have taken their seats. The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad shall apply for sick leave from 10 June until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Svein Atle Roseth, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e83	Svein Atle Roseth is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e88	The President proposes that two presidents be elected for the Stortinges meetings this week – and considers it to be adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e93	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e98	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e117	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e133	For the purposes of this study, the National Audit Office’s notification of the activity is available in 2001. The Committee has reviewed the National Audit Office’s notification of the activities and indicates that 40 management audit projects have been carried out in 2001. Of these, 10 completed projects were sent to Stortinget as Document No. Three things. Two issues were closed after the preliminary analysis. Of the projects started, 27 are continued in 2002. A total of 48 cases were reported by the National Audit Office in 2000, 34 of which are notes and 14 are for information. The Committee is pleased that there is a brief mention of the cases which were closed after the preliminary analysis, as set out below. The Committee's comments at the Innst. S. No 260 for 2000-2001. The Committee also points out that in 2001, the company audit covered 26 wholly-owned and 31 jointly-owned limited liability companies, six state enterprises, eight special law establishments and 26 student partnerships. We note that changes in management, including: changing forms of connection for government tasks, setting other and new requirements for audit methods and audit focus. The Committee shall register, inter alia: exemption from state activities results in a reduction in the scope of the National Audit Office’s accounting audit, while increasing the scope of control relating to the country’s ownership management and the demand for administrative audit. Here I would like to add for myself that we in the Progress Party are pleased that when the government tried to exempt the health companies from the audit from the Riksrevision, it was corrected in the Stortinget primarily by the opposition parties, as the current government parties initially had a different view. Already there are trends in trying to limit the activities of the National Audit Office to central government. I would like to add that I assume that the Riksrevision is very attentive if, through the reorganisation of a more technical nature, the Ministry seeks to avoid the Riksrevision's transparency. That should be strongly countered by Stortinget. The Committee also stresses in its comments the importance of the active relationship between the Riksaudition and audit firms, including: to provide guidance on audit work. This should not be misunderstood to the point where the National Audit Office is to be so much of a supervisor that subsequent audit work may be jeopardized in order not to be good enough. Advice and advice shall be given, but there is nothing to be relied upon in a department if the Riksrevision subsequently makes critical remarks. The national audit cannot go so far in such guidance as to endanger the audit. The National Audit Office has also pointed out some of the effects of increased cross-border trade in relation to the risk of financial crime. The Committee is of the clear opinion that it is important for the Riksrevision in the future to pay greater attention to the risk of financial mischief when the audit is planned and carried out. This is a topic of international importance, and I have noticed that the government in the public debate is flagging very high its fight against corruption by appointing the French judge Joly. I assume that that means that you also take this seriously, which I'm going to get back to. The Committee also points out that the Riksrevision has raised several issues relating to some significant weaknesses in the financial management of several activities, such as: Document No 1 for 2001-2002. In some cases, the deficiencies were so significant that the accounts could not be approved by the National Audit Office. The Committee considers this to be very serious. The Committee's comments at the Innst. S. No 101 for 2001-2002. The Committee points out that these are very serious and critical aspects and that they must be followed up by the overall level of management. As stated in the Riksrevisions report, this applies in particular to: that the accounts for 2000 could not be approved for the Rikshospitalet, Aetat, Labour Directorate, Foreign Affairs Directorate, State Agriculture Administration, the Swedish Korn Business and the Sami secondary schools in Karasjok and Kautokeino. For my part, I expect the superior bodies, i.e. the state councils, to make sure that it becomes a system if the same institution fails to approve its accounts two years in a row. It should, in my opinion, mean something for the management of such establishments. When the Riksrevision does not approve the accounts for the first time, no number two shall be applied. In that case, there is something wrong with the management of that institution, and it must have consequences. The Committee then pointed out that, in the context of the National Audit Office for 2001, there were comments on the administration of the SF-SIVA Industrial Growth Agency by the Council of State, which argued that the Riksrevision had been refused access to documents relating to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. In this respect, the Committee makes reference to its observations at the Innst. S. No 111 for 2001-2002 and the views expressed in the subsequent debate. At that time, a unanimous committee said, ‘The Committee finds it difficult to see that there are circumstances in which the document in question should not be delivered to the Riksrevision.’ It was therefore clear that the document should have been delivered. However, significant changes have been made in the Court of Auditors’ right of access. In the National Audit Office’s own strategic plan for the future activities, the following is stated: «ICT development sets new requirements for audit methods and tools. The connection of ICT systems to global networks also increases the risk of financial crime. More competition and constant migration can also contribute to an increased risk of maladministration and corruption. The National Audit Office’s proposal for new legislation and instructions proposes to continue the framework conditions that will continue to allow for effective audit and control. We see it as particularly important that access is not restricted. It will not be possible to carry out effective control if the person being controlled is to determine what the Riksaudition can obtain, and it is a prerequisite for the independence of the Riksaudition that we can determine the scope of control ourselves.» The National Audit Office's report to Stortinget also introduces an introduction that makes it clear – it is therefore the Riksaudition that makes its contracting entity, Stortinget, aware of – the following things: ‘In the proposal for a new law and instructions of the National Audit Office, it is proposed to continue the framework conditions that have been applied since the adoption by the Stortinget of the applicable law and instructions. The national audit considers it particularly important that transparency is not restricted, and the Riksrevision itself must determine the scope of control. It will not be possible to carry out an effective audit and verification if the person inspected is to determine what the Riksaudition can obtain.’» This is relatively natural for most people who want to support an effective audit system. There are very many – I am absolutely convinced that Minister of Justice Dørum will be able to hear it by talking to Judge Joly – many larger and smaller companies that would very much like to have conducted what the audit would have been able to gain access to documents. It is a very central principle in all audits that if the statutory auditor, whether the National Auditor or an auditor of a company or an organisation, asks to be presented with certain documents, and the person who is then the audited opposes the delivery of the documents, it must in principle be almost because one has a bad conscience and does not want the statutory auditor to know at all what is in the documents. This we have had a debate about once before, and we will have more of that, until we get a change of attitude from government parties. Two governments have tried, and have stated directly in a letter to the Constitutional Committee of Storting that they want to have restrictions on the legal design proposed by the National Audit Office itself. Some documents are wanted to be exempted from the Court of Auditors' right of access, and this is alarming. In reality, what is happening in Norway is the exact opposite of what is happening in all other countries. Here, two governments are seeking to limit the Riksaudition's right of access, while the Riksaudition itself wants to continue the situation that has existed since the last law and instruction was passed. Fortunately, after the change of government took place, at least in a special case that I have already allowed myself to mention, the Workers' Party's big group has shown that, when it was put on the verge, it was accepted that the Riksrevision's views were to be taken into account. This is when the government of Stoltenberg proposed that health companies be exempted from the Riksrevision's transparency and control. But when they got a better idea after the government change, the Workers' Party's big group, along with, among other things, went. The party of progress and SV, in order for health companies to be controlled by the National Audit Office. I hope that means that the Workers' Party after they returned to the Stortinget – after the error that the Workers' Party had about this when they were in government and under the influence of the government – has got a little more common sense and sceptical attitude. This is to be achieved when it comes to wanting to restrict the right of access to the Court of Auditors. I hope as this case develops, that the Workers' Party will land on the only acceptable principleal position. It's also strange, and it must be a little awkward when the National Audit Office actively participates in INTOSAI's international work, i.e. the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions' work, among others. providing assistance to former Eastern bloc countries and other countries that have not had active audit systems, that their own home country now goes the other way, if the current government and government parties are on what it might suggest, namely to wish for restrictions on the right of access to the Court of Auditors. In the previous debate, which was a very shocking experience, there was a strong question as to whether we in Norway could be expected to continue with a sensible national audit with full transparency, then there was nothing but general views. This time, therefore, the Committee and the European Parliament have received both the views of the National Audit Office in the report and at the strategic level, and nevertheless the majority of the Committee is, in reality, putting this issue to the fore. It refuses to take a stand for the principle and pushes ahead of it the Grand Duchy's selection, the so-called Constitutional Committee. The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m. As far as we now understand, it is exposed to the harvest. That means that where the majority just wanted to have a few more days to decide, it's become much more serious. Therefore, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, I take up the following proposals, which are in the vote: ‘The decision asks the Government to make available to the Riksaudition in any context the documents requested by the Riksaudition to be made transparent.’; I also allow myself to ask the majority to consider whether they should not vote in favour of such a proposal, so that the doubt – the very great doubt – that has arisen in Norway whether it is such that the Storting itself actually also considers reducing the transparency of its own control body, the Riksrevision, is removed. For this is now a matter that only the Storting can clean up. The Riksaudition has correctly, when they have encountered problems, when they have seen attempts to narrow down – perhaps especially from the administration – communicated this to its contracting entity, Stortinget. If this proposal is defeated, it's a signal to the Riksrevision that you can't trust the Stortinge to give them full transparency. It means, in a way, some kind of mistrust of the Riksrevision's ability to judge, and full confidence that our central government will never do anything wrong, and that it is possible to reduce transparency in some documents. It will be a startling decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e185	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e188	I ask for the floor first of all because I want to clear up the doubts that the representative Hagen is trying to raise, that there are some parties on the Stortinget who are interested in denying the Riksrevision's transparency in documents that are relevant to the management of the country's joint ownership. I think it's sad that the representative Hagen is using such an opportunity as this to try to construct a kind of representation that it would be in the intention of some staging parties to open the way to dishonest elements that would want to enrich themselves on behalf of the community. That must be what he meant, when he suggested that we intend to restrict the employment opportunities of the National Audit Office, so that it would be possible to be corrupt and still survive within the central government, whether it be political management or other management. I just want to be as strong as I can, stress that I do not know that there are any thoughts about restricting the Court's transparency at all. I have not experienced in the time I have been in Stortinget, that there has ever been disagreement between the staging representatives or the parties of Stortinge when the question of the Court of Auditors' right of access has been raised, as in the example mentioned in the document. On the other hand, there is a proposal for a new law on the Riksrevision. The selection, led by the Grandfather Ranveig Frøiland, is asked to discuss the principal aspects, among others. on this proposal for a law, which, in certain cases, has been raised both by the Government of Stoltenberg and now by the Government of Bondevik, that questions can be asked as to whether the Riksrevision needs the purely party political assessments made before a decision is taken in order to meet its need for an independent review. That question we have asked that the selection that Ranveig Frøiland leads, and that Carl I. Hagen sits in, look at the principle before we take a final position on it. It would therefore be totally wrong for us, as I see it, if today, when dealing with the annual report of the National Audit Office, we were going to agree to advance the fundamental assessments by making a decision that we do not know how far we are going. I understand that the representative Hagen's tactics here are that he is trying to advance some of the work to be done in this sample. But what surprises me is that the Socialist Left Party is jumping on this without, as I see it, going into a discussion about the joke of having a sample to look at the principal parts of the new National Audit Act, if we're going to make decisions on Carl I. Hagen's initiative in Stortinget before you get the principal evaluations. I personally would never be able to agree to any proposal that meant such restrictions on the access of the National Audit Office to documents provided in order to detect either bad administrative practices, poor financial management or even corruption, as the representative Hagen calls it. But there will always be ongoing assessments that the Riksrevision will make. It is quite obvious that we should have an active audit, it must be that there should not be any leaders either at the top level or at the middle level or even at a lower level of executive who have the opportunity to refuse the Riksrevision's transparency of documents in order to protect themselves. But we must not be mistaken in the fact that we are suddenly beginning to compare big business, government and central government, which is a balance between good governance and political work, with an enterprise. A government is not any kind of enterprise. It is therefore necessary to ensure that there is an audit system and an audit strategy that respect political decisions in this country in the extension of political discussions. In such cases, it is the decisions that are absolutely essential for the Rikssaudition to carry out its audit. I just want to say that it is not certain that I even disagree with the proposal put forward here by Mr Hagen once we have finally assessed and put forward the proposals. But today, before the selection in which the representative Hagen himself is involved has completed his assessments, it will be totally inappropriate for the Labour Party to vote in favour of the proposal as it exists today. That is why I would urge the representatives of the Labour Party to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e206	My colleague, Jørgen Kosmo, was trying to create the impression that this was just a disagreement between the undersigned and possibly the majority and himself, and that I was trying to reconstruct situations. I must say that then Jørgen Kosmo must have heard very poorly after my post. I referred to the Riksrevision's own statements in the strategic plan and the Riksrevision's report to Stortinget. That is where the Riksrevision presents the questions that it wants the Storting to decide and clarify. And it says the following: ‘The Court of Auditors considers it particularly important that access to information is not restricted and the Riksrevision must determine the scope of control itself. It will not be possible to carry out an effective audit and verification if the person inspected is to determine what the Riksaudition can obtain.’» These are fundamental questions. There are many practical things it makes sense to wait until a sample has been completed. Now it seems that Kosmo thinks this is the only question the Constitutional Commission is asking. There is one bit of much more, and certain fundamental issues should be able to make up political parties in the Storting without hearing what a selection means, and in particular a principle as clear as he appears later that he agrees with me. But the question is, and I ask it again: if there is a situation where there is a disagreement between the Riksrevision on the one hand and the administration on the other hand, and the Riksrevision says that our assessment is that the documents we will have delivered, and the administration says no, these are party-political superiors – what of course it shouldn't be in a government, because it's the government of the country, party politics we run here in the Stortinget – and the government says no, we don't want to deliver it, then who is it to be right? That's what the principle is about. Will Jørgen Kosmo in principle answer that then it is the Riksrevision that wins?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e216	I must say that I am greatly surprised that the representative Hagen, with all his experience, can actually sit here in Stortinget and believe that the parties in government do not exercise party politics. What sense would it be in taking government power if one were not to exercise party politics in the government? That is politics from the beginning to the end. But the representative Hagen must learn to distinguish politics from party politics from management. It is clear that any Council of State and the Government as part of the constitutional practice and tasks entrusted to it shall also carry out an administrative part of the tasks for which they are assigned. And I have to say that I would be furious, I would react in a way almost completely out of control if part of the administration were to deny the Riksaudition the transparency of special documents. But what we're discussing here is actually a decision-making basis for the Government. We are not talking about individual documents relating to administrative or administrative decisions. But because there may be some uncertainty about what you're really talking about here, I recommend the representative Hagen to finish the sample work before he concludes on behalf of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e221	Now it seemed for a moment that Jørgen Kosmo remembered the old doctrine that when the argument is bad, raising the voice helps. He's actually saying that the names of the documents, the characteristics of the documents in the department, are the ones to govern. Does not Jørgen Kosmo realize that at the moment when you open the law to exempt documents with certain names from the Court of Auditors, you will be able to ensure that more and more documents go through the system, which is protected from the Court of Auditors' transparency? And doesn't Jørgen Kosmo understand that this issue has never existed before, because it was first in connection with the SIVA document, as far as I know, that this issue has emerged? Is not Jørgen Kosmo aware that the increased control activities developed by the Stortinget in the 1990s have resulted in growing opposition from parts of the administration, where one now feels too much control over what one likes, and that there has been a growing irritation and desire of some to limit the right of access to the Riksrevision? Does he not take seriously that when the Riksrevision actually alerts the Storting about this after a government has actually made a different legal text to the sample, which exempts a number of documents from the Riksrevision's right of access, then is it the government apparatus and administration that have put this matter on the agenda? There is no other way for the sitting national audit to deal with this than to notify its contracting entity, Stortinget, and it has done so. But then Cosmo, who is also the President of the Grand Duchy, says that you can't decide on this important principle, whether to support your national audit or to participate in any restriction on the right of access, until a selection has finished. Just in the end: there may have been several of the members in the sample who were actually ready to release the option now, but there are others who are asking for time to consider a little more.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e228	No – I have to say that with the experience I have from sitting in government, with the experience I have as head of different departments, it is not my definite impression that you are starting to become fat up or want to limit the Riksrevision's audit opportunities. Of course, there has been an increasing focus on administrative audit, on some of the audit methods and audit methodology of the National Audit Office. But there it's quite obvious that it's the Riksrevision itself that is going to determine the methodology you're going to use. The major changes in central government, including: where we have gone over to completely different ways of governing, perhaps in order to be able to address the challenges of the future at all – the National Audit Office has actively contributed and has been of value to the administration and to the Government in terms of how to develop both internal and external control mechanisms and control systems in order to have an overview and ensure a reasonable use of resources. I don't know a single politician in any government I've been sitting in or working with, who has something against the National Audit Office. On the contrary, too. Any government policy depends on the functioning of a national audit if you are to be able to control the administration that works daily. So here it's constructed up a contradiction ratio, and there's formulas in the bottom that I think are completely wrong in relation to the real situation. We will take the time, in principle and on a practical basis, to discuss the issues raised by the Riksrevision and conclude in the Stortinget in connection with the legal proceedings – not in connection with the handling of an annual report.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e233	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e236	It is the National Audit Office’s notification of the activity in 2001 that we are now dealing with in this case. The National Audit Office’s notification of the activity in 2001 reveals a significant activity. It has, among other things, have been involved in 40 different management projects, ten of which have been completed projects submitted to the Stortinget as Document No. Three things. This is a sign that the activity is very large, in addition to the current management control in the departments. An overall committee underlines the importance of monitoring the use and management of State resources in a financially sound manner and in accordance with the decision of the Stortinge. The notification also concerns the personnel policy of the National Audit Office. There is every reason to pay attention to it, because it has been possible to achieve a good balance between women and men in the establishment. There is even a small excess of women, with a share of 51,5 pst. However, it is pointed out that, in the context of human resources policy, further attention needs to be paid to the recruitment of women to different councils and selections. This point I believe is important to take with me. In addition to control tasks and staffing issues, the notification also concerns the fact that the Riksaudition has worked for several years on proposals for new legislation and instructions for the Riksaudition. This legislative proposal is now under consideration in the ‘Committee to Investigate the Control Function of the Storting’, where work has not yet been completed. In other words, it is natural that one should come back to this important matter during the autumn, when the selection has given notice to the Presidency and the matter is available in Stortinget. In the setting, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, points out that it is particularly important to maintain the right of access to the Riksrevision today. In this context, however, one of the Riksrevision’s strategic plans, which is important for further work, has taken note. This year, too, is the basis for giving tribute to the National Audit Office for a very good and comprehensive work presented in the 2001 plan. When the Christian People's Party does not support the minority proposal, this is justified by the fact that one does not want to take decisions now before the sample that has this work for treatment has given its opinion. In this respect, I would therefore recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party vote against. However, the Christian People's Party recommends that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e250	I will begin where the representative Odd Holten began, stressing that it is a majority of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that points out that it is particularly important that the right of access to the Riksrevision is not restricted and that has taken note of the foreword of the Riksrevision's strategic plan. For the Socialist Left Party, it has always been a clear and clear principle that the Riksrevision must have access to the documents requested by the Riksrevision itself. We have confidence in the Riksrevision that we assume that the Riksrevision will not ask for access to documents that are outside the area where the Riksrevision should move. I now record that from several other parties there is a desire to wait for this Constitutional Commission before considering this principle. I have no need to question the motives of others when it is said that this is based on a desire to follow the debate, but it is therefore not a problem for us to confirm the principle that has been necessary throughout the whole process to have a good national audit in Norway, and I would therefore ask the representatives of the SV to support the proposed proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e259	I will not draw the debate in length, but I think it might have been interesting, since this is the place where the magnificence and government meet, to ask for a brief statement in principle from the Minister of Justice as to why the Government has taken the position that there is a desire to restrict the right of the Court of Auditors to require transparency in certain documents. It is clear from a letter from Prime Minister Bondevik to the Constitutional Commission that the restrictions requested by the previous government in a previous letter are supported. So what is the principle reason that if there is a dispute between the National Audit Office's request for transparency and the government apparatus or administration, then it is the Government's view that then the Riksrevision should not win? It is not just the experience from some other countries that there may be decisions, including: on the allocation of funds, where the real justification can be different from the formal one, and that this could ever happen in Norway, which makes it important that the Riksrevision has access to all documents which may show what real ‘party policy reasons’ – as Jørgen Kosmo calls it – are behind any government decision? This will be the case both in a government and, to a large extent, in all businesses and organisations, that there will be different reasons for what to do. We're well aware that these can be so-called substituting arguments, and that the real reason is something else. In some other countries, including where Joly comes from, there have actually been several issues where there have been political reasons, while the real ones are more personal party politics. How does it look, for example? Does Joly judge on this with the Riksrevision? After all, she is engaged by the Government to be a spearhead in the fight against dishonesty and dishonesty – even if for example. some in the administration should take a position on the basis of more unsubstantiated reasons than is acceptable. So it would have been interesting if the Stortinget could get acquainted with the government's principal reason why the government's official position is that some documents in the government apparatus of the government itself should be exempt from the Riksrevision's scrutiny, even when the Riksrevision, according to its opinions, has come to the conclusion that it is necessary to have access to such documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e270	It is well known that the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, wrote letters to the Constitutional Commission on 29 January. There he prepares for the government's assessments, and I have no intention of adding anything or subtracting anything from it. With regard to the general considerations expressed by the representative Hagen, it is clear that any government, including the current government, would be interested in combating all forms of cause, justification or suspicion of dishonest intent, as the representative Hagen rightly points out. We won't be able to accept that anywhere, either outside or at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e277	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e293	The main task of the Ombudsman is to ensure the rights of the civil guardians. The Committee considers that the reporting for the period from 1 January 1998 to 31 December 2001 provides a good description of the activity and level of activity. It is worth noting that by the second quarter of 2001, there was a accumulated queue of 1,706 men waiting for a call and that it is due to a higher number of applicants than the budget framework provides for. At the same time, there is no problem in getting enough assignments. I want to show you here that in Innst. S. No 163 for 1997-98 stated that civil servants must be given the opportunity to serve as quickly as possible in order to prevent the formation of queues. The Committee supports the views expressed by the Committee that it is important to ensure that this is done as quickly as possible, and that there are greater problems for each individual and also higher socio-economic costs, with the crew establishing their own home and taking responsibility for their dependants during the waiting period. I think it is important for the team to be more targeted towards priority tasks or sectors, even if this would mean that the individual's personal interests have to give way to the needs of society. The Committee welcomes the development of a service offer aimed at preventing violence and conflict among young people. The Committee agrees that the provision of training for this type of service is sought in a coordinated manner with the highest possible degree of application by both administrations of the same name in the form of services. Whether the scheme is VOKT or Bypass, it is likely to be more tidy to find a common name when future preparatory training measures are applied throughout the country. I also allow myself to refer to a unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e306	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e322	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e331	For a long time, dissatisfaction with SEFO has been expressed, and in many contexts, claims such as, as is also stated in this document, that there is camaraderie and that in this way, confidence in SEFO has been undermined. It is important that we have a body that, in the cases where complaints are filed against the police, can really give answers that people most party trust in. If such a body does not have the necessary upliftment and trust among the people, we get such scramblings and corridor statements that lead to our being unsure whether to hide anything. The proposal, which is on the table today by the representatives of the Progress Party, is precisely aimed at preventing such a situation, and therefore they are asking for an issue that is important and necessary. However, we have already looked at this issue and a report has been issued by a working group set up in 2000. This report has subsequently been sent to the hearing, and the deadline for the hearing opinions has been set at the 15th of this month in which we are now in. When such studies and consultations are available, it is important that we do not prejudge the conclusions that would be natural to draw in the light of a comprehensive procedure. For this reason, the Committee does not wish to reject the proposal by the representatives of the Progressive Party, because this is a matter which is in line with the interests of all parties. But it's not in our interest to make decisions that lead to what's going to happen regardless of what comes out in the hearing opinions of this note. For this reason, the majority considers that it is desirable to attach this proposal to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e342	The SEFO scheme was established in 1988 by the then Minister of Justice Helen Bøsterud. The scheme was established, inter alia: as a direct result of the so-called police violence in Bergen. The purpose of this investigation was to strengthen confidence in the investigation that took place. 14 years later, we must recognise that confidence in SEFO among the public and the actors in criminal justice is not very high. The criticism that was addressed to the police before the SEFO was set up has in no way been muted. The criticism is that SEFO protects police officers and appears to be the goat that fits the oat sack. I think it's time to ask questions about whether it's an appropriate solution to have police officers investigate. We put these investigators in a very difficult loyalty conflict. The background to the criticism is that the few cases investigated by SEFO result in a response to the official concerned. However, the high rate of enrolment in SEFO cases does not need to be an indication that SEFO is doing a bad job. Many of the SEFO cases are dealt with, in fact they do not belong there. They are in practice complaints against the police and not reports of criminal offences. Nevertheless, for the Workers' Party, it is unsustainable to have a system in which the public has so little confidence, not least given that the police have been given more and more powers in terms of both investigation methods and other means of power. Police, which are the civil apparatus of society, must be subject to both formal and informal control, and must withstand being subjected to criticism. It was on this basis that the Minister of Justice of the Labour Party, Hanne Harlem, set up a working group to look at the entire SEFO scheme in cooperation with the National Attorney. We now know that the group has delivered its report, and that the consultation deadline expires in a few days, on 15 June. The working party is set to make changes so that we get an order of audiences and the various actors have confidence. But we believe the government must now have the opportunity to do a real job. We must listen to the hearing bodies and allow the democratic processes in the matter to move forward in this matter as well. We are therefore not prepared to take a position on the proposals of the Progress Party just above the table. The Labour Party does not disagree with the criticisms of the Progress Party, but we do not believe that it is right to go for what may immediately appear to be the best solution. If we're going to get a body that increases public confidence, we're going to have to do a thorough job. The Labour Party is awaiting the proposal from the Government, and therefore believes that we cannot deal with this matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e359	Police must be a service body to law-abiding citizens. They shall protect society from criminal acts and ensure that offenders are punished. But from time to time we are reminded that the police can also make mistakes, and unfortunately such errors may have fatal consequences for the parties involved. In the event that criminal offences have been committed by police officers or women, SEFO shall take care of the investigation. But very few of the cases being investigated lead to some being charged with criminal liability. The examples are many – car chases with fatal outcomes, charges of racist attacks by policemen, deaths on smooth cell, and not least dog service in West Torpa now in spring, where a seven-year-old boy lost his life. Of course, you ask yourself if any incidents could have been avoided if the police had acted differently. When SEFO rarely concludes that there has been a criminal offence, there are often allegations of camaraderie, that the police and prosecution authorities protect each other. This is suitable for weakening public confidence in this important authority. We all know that it is human to err from time to time, to make a misassessment that can be punishable in some situations. People might ask themselves why the police should be different. Norwegian police are probably among the best in ethics and morality. Nevertheless, I am afraid that the audience has a feeling that the will is smaller in terms of revealing conditions where the rights of the citizens are violated by policemen. The proposers wish to establish a nationwide and independent police body to replace SEFO. It is recognized from many quarters that today’s system is unsatisfactory. The most serious thing in my view is that the public's confidence in SEFO is weakened. The right is satisfied that the issue has already been addressed. A working group presented its report just before Christmas and proposed that a separate complaint body be set up to deal with critics, but not criminal acts by the police. The group also proposed that SEFO should have jurisdiction in the prosecution of these cases, at the expense of the state lawyers, and that lawyers should have the cases brought before the courts. The proposals were launched to try to increase public confidence. However, it may be important not to rush into this matter. In this context, it may be necessary to review all possible forms of organisation and to carry out a thorough review of the options available. We have the episodes in West Torpa freshened in memory, where the parents had reported the dog owner to the police for lack of supervision of the dogs, because the dogs frightened children and people in Torpa, without the police taking care of the case. It's a serious signal that there's something wrong with the relationship between the police and the audience. Nevertheless, we believe that this matter is so important that it does not deserve to be dealt with over the table here in Stortinget today, but that we are looking at the workgroup's proposals, which are now being consulted. I feel confident that the Minister of Justice will propose the necessary changes and come back to Stortinget with this at a later stage, so that the confidence in the police and the work done by the police, by the people, will be better than it has been so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e378	What is so clear is that the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights support the intention of what is proposed by the representative of Kukkestad and myself. I think that's positive. Now, what seems a little bit strange so far is what you hear from the people who've been up here. To me, it seems more and more strange that our proposal is not unanimously adopted by the committee, because I see it as clearly that you want to do something to improve the degree of inadequacy that the police need in order to be functional. And that's what's our intention. It shall not be such as to call into question the roles of both civil servants and the functioning of the SEFO system. Then it opens up that most people ask questions about what this is. We're not saying that there's a small number of things that are being investigated, and in which we're being charged, say something about the volume of this, but the important thing is that there has to be a system that avoids doubt. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. What we have said in our proposal is that we want a nationwide police surveillance, and I thought that they could join the committee. Then you could then let the government work on the organisational relationship for the implementation of this case. It should be unproblematic, at least at our discretion. But it can sometimes seem as if the most important thing to get through in the Committee and in this Chamber is that the proposal comes from the Government. And I don't think that fits the way we should work. It should, of course, be that the Storting supports all good proposals, regardless of who they come from, so that it is not necessarily who is the author of the proposal, who is crucial. And then I can't wait, I must also be allowed to comment on one of the statements made by Gunn Karin Gjul, who says that the Workers' Party was not willing to deal with this matter directly over the table. My understanding is that the Justice Committee has dealt with this matter, so I don't recognize myself in that description. But I expect that the representative himself will be allowed to do so. At least what I see as positive is the signals that are given – that you are willing to look at it, and that you should wait for the hearing opinions. Of course, we have to take note of that, even though we would have wanted a number of more offensive views from the Justice Committee and, of course, from the Stortinget, and would like to have a majority here, so we would have moved on. Because if we had made a decision today, we would have given a clear signal that we were looking at the scheme as unsatisfactory. And there can't be any point in that we're going to wait to fix a mistake that we obviously notice lies there. Then we should show the spine. So we should take the challenge and do something about it, and then it could be up to the government to come back with the practical pieces within this. Of course, on behalf of the Progress Party, I am disappointed that we seem to be standing alone. But I must then be allowed to welcome the rest of the representatives afterwards, and address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e391	Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestion he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e394	Initially, SV could have joined the vast majority of the comments that the representative Ellingsen has now made, but we actually think that there may be a point sometimes not to do things quickly and incorrectly, but to try to sit down and look at all the aspects of the matter. I share the concern that has been expressed from here, among other things. The representatives Ellingsen and Gjul, and it seems extremely important that we get a serious assessment of how SEFO works, and establish a trust in the population that we now consider to be partially deficient. SV has no illusions that the police are angels, and we believe that there can also be camaraderie, as it does in many other organizations and agencies. This is also about the fact that the police are people, just like we are. But it's difficult for SV just to show that we're capable of action, to support some of the comments that we may think are correct, but that we think needs to be properly assessed. I think it might have been a little OK if the Progress Party had stopped acting so strongly in any context, and perhaps it could take it a little calm and be that there is a work going on in some areas, where we take a serious assessment. Because it can be a problem for Stortinget if we're going to be so quick in any context that we don't take into account any serious recordings that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e403	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2988]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e419	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e428	So today we are going to deal with a Document No. Eight proposals from, among others: Representative Knut Storberget on the law on Santa Claus. This has been a very engaging matter for many. We have received a lot of enquiries, especially from Santas who experience that they have come into a state of confusion. The committee has not had consultations on this matter, but we have met fractionally, and we have also had bilateral contacts with many who have contacted us. It's just to take a look at the representative's website, and you can see how committed this case has been. The configuration of the Committee is shared. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Progressive Party, oppose the proposalers' wish to have an amendment to the Law prohibiting future land-holding contracts, making it easier and cheaper to redeem properties that are currently being rented out for housing or leisure purposes after a certain number of years, and limiting the possibility of charging increases, such as the legal situation before 1 January 2002. Instead, the majority will allow anchorages under specified conditions to dissociate parts of the fixed floor. Of course, the majority argue best for this view of seagoing water, so I'd rather go over to what SV means, and why. I am very disappointed with the majority's incisiveness in this matter. So here we know that a lot of thousands of people get a huge increase in their party fees because the new Santa Claus Act doesn't hold a goal, and then you can't give these people a different answer than that the most graceful people will be allowed to tell off parts of the plot if the fee increase gets too tough. How fair is that? In practice, the generosity of the majority in very many cases means that you can tell from yourself some of the land you have already paid for or have contributed to the increase in value over many years of investment in land. I hardly can't believe you're dry! To the Progress Party: You are like the party for people most. But if you don't skin people most in this case, I don't know what's skinning. Fee on petrol, on cars and driving, you can slowly fight as lions to get rid of it, but if it is something as basic as housing, no, it is not that important anymore. It is in line with the unsocial policies of the Progress Party, where the market is to be allowed to operate in the housing market, and where rent increases and price increases can push out young people, elderly and unmiddled people, completely at peace with criticism from their side. I hope that the party's position in this matter can help to get the eyes up on the people most because of which side this party is in many very important matters – on the part of the owners and the capitals, against ordinary people who don't have the pocket full of thousands of rags. If SV were to decide in this case – which the government has been more than unwilling – it would be impossible to impose a land-fixing charge equivalent to market assessments of the value of the land, then it would only be possible to regulate according to the consumer price index. In addition, it would be easier and cheaper to redeem the plots, so that we could avoid many of the conflicts that spring out of the fact that you do not own the empty house or the cabin is on. Not owning the land gives a power imbalance – in the favour of the landowners – that we have seen the results of for too long, something like that. State forest knows how to use it. It's a challenge to the sitting government, which should perhaps know its visitation time in this regard. I think it is sad that the answer SV and the Workers' Party can give to despaired Santas in this matter is: Sorry, but the majority of people didn't think their problems were important enough for them to do anything with them. They chose to care more about the owners' ability to hoard in extra thousand copies, even though this may mean that your house has to be sold. I bring this up with the SV's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e456	The representative of Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The President also recalls that all speeches should be addressed to the President. If the representative reads through her post, she'll see what the president thinks about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e461	The amendments to the Law on Landfills were introduced from 1 January this year. The Labour Party has previously voted against the changes, we were opposed to the implementation as this was subjected to wholesale treatment before Christmas, and we support the proposal that is now under consideration. I mention this as it has been argued in the debate in the past – and I will not be surprised if it is also used today – that we should have contributed to the creation of this law. This has become the sole argument of the government parties and the Progress Party in this case, which has become a difficult case. In reality, the changes to the Law on Landings, initiated by the Government Parties and the Advance Party in the New Year, meant a record in the increase in fees or rents for many landowners. For us in the Workers' Party, it is a paradox that those who chose in the election campaign to focus heavily on ordinary people's financial expenditure on housing can now sit still and see that the minimum pensioners, the first-time settlers and the entire housing law are getting huge increases in their housing celebrations. A heads is actually a heads. We're talking here about relationships that have been known for a long time, so this may not have come as a surprise on the Right or Advance Party. It was known for these last autumn that some landowners were charged over NOK 30 000, against less than NOK 1000. It was known to these parties that this concerns the entire law of residence, and that the law has created extremely unnecessary uncertainty for many of the 350 000 landowners that exist in Norway. Many are now very uncertain about future regulation of their contracts – understandably enough. It would be an easy matter for the Government to change this unsustainable situation for many. There are simple legal changes that need to be put in place. We in the Labour Party will not give in to these amendments if we are to be voted down today. It is important to change the provision on the rental of land. Today, despite the absence of a market for land subject to land fasts, market price changes in the land market can be regulated. These plots aren't sold, there's a house on them. It is therefore really very artificial to talk about market prices, which will also create major legal conflicts and many unnecessary processes for the implicated. Our proposal, which involves adjusting to the consumer price index, is reasonable for both parties. The landowner gets the same real price for the land and the landowner pays at the same level. In addition, the increase in the value of the land is to a large extent the contribution of the land attacher. He is the one who has planted, dug sewage and laid asphalt. It is the party that has invested specifically in the plot by travelling the house. It is therefore with great disappointment that we see that the Government and the Advance Party will continue to accept this increase in fees, and it is not now the chance to support our proposal. In addition, we believe that the system of parcels must now be phased out and phased out over time in Norway, in line with Sweden and Denmark. This is the background to the proposal that landowners should have a right to redeem their land at a reasonable amount more frequently than at present. We must have a regulation with clear guidelines, both for when and at what price they can redeem their plots. We are not, as the government parties and the Progress Party have raised, afraid of some speculation. This is about people's own housing, which you rarely wonder about. It is also a paradox that, suddenly, there is a warning against a speculative economy, when one has made a major contribution to stimulating such an economy in many other areas. When the system of land fasteners is gradually phased out, with the greatest possible redemption of the land, we believe that Nordic legal entity and the concern of the housing owners mean that a total or partial ban on future fixed contracts is imposed. Several hundred owner-occupiers have contacted us in the Workers' Party, we know that the Ministry of Justice has received a lot of enquiries, and the Peasants' Association has received many of them. You're worried. People's right to self-occupancy, to home security and to their own economy is central to Norwegian welfare policy. This case therefore has dimensions in addition to a difficult law available and the issue of the interests of landowners. It's about social housing policy. The issue is to ensure that those who have a bad economy and who have managed to create their own home can now maintain their security. In my opinion, the promise from the government parties to join in raising those who have the least in Norway, and equalising differences, falls on rock, when the same parties choose not to do anything in relation to the unfortunate results that the law gives. The point of progress and the remark by the government parties that part of the land can be disposed of for lower rent is not acceptable and is provocative on many. You are asked in many ways to put your hat in your hands and ask nicely to give away some of the property you have had over time. In addition, what landowners would accept the need to take back the flicks of land in order for the tenant to pay less in rent? Then I had actually believed that the Progress Party had stood by its statements earlier this year that they were willing to look at a softer phase of the law, so that the effect of the tax increase would be over time. Where did this go? We in the Workers' Party have been accused of going back to the 1950s' regulatory policy. Several European countries are then lagging behind in this age. In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute to those organisations, with the Tomtefest Association at the head, who have put the matter properly on the agenda along with well-being and housing throughout the country. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal of the Workers' Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e487	Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e490	The fixed charge shall be calculated on an empty basis. This shall be used as a basis for a new fastening fee, with a ceiling of 9 000 kroner per person. dekar, or per. empty if less than 1 dekar. This was supported by the Workers' Party in a subsidiary way during the course of its proceedings on 6 June 2000. If the fastening contract does not provide for the regulation of the fastening charge, the increase in the value of the money shall be used as a starting point for the regulation of the fastening charge. The law is also designed to strike a balance between the interests of landowners and landowners, and is a long step in the right direction to ensure that landowners have a right to a greater return on land in line with developments in land prices. At the same time, it is also important to remember that there will not be full freedom for the fasteners to set the fees he would like, as the party often has large values in the house and the cabin on the ground. The working party made a lot of strong statements and claims that there are very unreasonable price increases in the fastening fee. So we're going to set a ceiling of $9,000 per. measure, i.e. a de facto transfer of values from owner of the land to parties. The working party has a touching concern for the small crew, which they now call all landowners in Norway, but they have obviously not been present or seen the consequence of it when massive taxes on house owners have been adopted – housing taxes, property taxes, property taxes. And if the Swedish model, which it looks like Storberget has a love for, was to be introduced in Norway, then it would be really bad for the small corps and for those who own properties. Because then there are no pro-miles of property taxes, then there are percentages of property taxes, and then there are property taxes based on market values and not on Equation tariffs. The working party has a description that there will be a bottomless social distress as a result of people paying the party fee. Yeah, that's a dramatic description of the outcome of the Workers' Party's influence on Norwegian society over the last 50 years. I would also like to add: Should Norwegian owners of land be lawless poor fans who have to find out that the rental that was made 50 years ago will apply forever and always? A disembarkator has no right to re-approve of an unreasonable low fastening charge in the last 50 years, with a dramatic increase in the fastening charge or price regulation now. The law does not provide such an opportunity. Opinions from both Prime Minister Bondevik and Minister of Justice Dørum, as well as the comments from the majority, suggest that the Government should assess the consequences of a new law and come back to the Stortinget next year to see how the law has turned out in practice. The information service's fund has also been notified in a letter dated 10 April from the Ministry of Culture and the Church that it should be a moderate implementation of the law so that the state does not become a price leader, but actually leads to a moderate and prudent phase-in of the law. The rules on fast charging have long created problems in practice. There have been price adjustments for a large part of the post-war period to protect the parties from excessive tax increases. On the other hand, this legal regulation has led many landowners to a small reasonable return on their properties by absconding. The Labour Party has a claim that Sweden's policy should be implemented on this, that Santa Claus should be banned, because it is the best. It is true that too many people in Norway in the post-war period have actually had the only opportunity to invest in houses and homes that they have been able to rent, otherwise they would have to have bought land. It would be much, much more expensive for the owners of the house to get rid of it. This has been a cheap way for homeowners to get empty. So by forbidding land fasteners, fewer plots will be available. And the offer of cabins would have been reduced if this law had not come into force. In addition, it is very good district policy. A landowner in District Norway must, of course, have the opportunity to live on its resources, in line with property owners in the city. All historical experience shows that private ownership is the most effective way to manage society’s resources. It's actually a premise for society's investment. The party gets a number of new rights with the new law at the expense of the party. I can mention the owner's almost unconditional right to redemption, that is. private expropriation of its fixed property. In the absence of redemption, fixators of recreational property are granted the right to extend a fastening contract. No party is allowed to restrict its rights by virtue of the law, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e503	Renting a land for a specified number of years creates demarcation problems. In such a situation, it would be beneficial to deal with the agreement concluded between the lessor and the lessor. It is the parties that have assessed the benefits and disadvantages of the content of the agreement, and so both have chosen to address it. As the law now is, the agreement will be what determines how the rental sum is to be regulated. If the rental is required to be restated, this is the case. If there is nothing about the regulation, the index still applies. When it comes to regulating at market prices, this is only explicitly stated in the building agreement. One has then already agreed on market rental or land value initially. But even if you have agreed to rent the market, one will never have to pay more than 9 000 kroner per. Objectives per year years. If you have a goal empty, 1 million. kr, the ‘large’ remuneration of the owner of the land will be at the lower edge of 1 pst. It's not obvious that 1 pst. The return may be characterised as an activity of incurrence! As can be seen, building agreements have been concluded between two parties, and then it is important to look at this from a holistic perspective. It would be just as wrong to take only the tenant's side as taking only the landlord's side. Here you have to take into account both parties to the agreement. We see that for people who are sitting with large plots, it can make a pretty big difference. Especially do we see the problem where people are sitting with plots that have a size far beyond what they feel they need. It is against this background that we agree with the proposal that the Government should look at the possibilities for tenants to abdicate parts of the plot that they do not feel need. Here there are some demarcation problems, and therefore we also want the Government to work on this and come back to the Storting with it before making a final decision. Whether the issue is rent regulation or redemption, the most important thing to do is to read the agreement that has been concluded, signed and ordered. So there is an agreement between the parties. Then we hear that the name of the rental is “tax”. Some representatives make it appear that this is a matter for the Treasury. It's not, it's a question of a name on a rental price. You might as well call it rent. Then comes the question that future parties should not be allowed. There are then two possibilities: it's either that there is free contract and full roll, or that you're not allowed to rent a land, which means that you can rent an apartment, and you can rent a house, but you're not supposed to be able to rent the land. I'm not sure it's very appropriate. And then the Labour Party comes up with a "good" solution: to give people cheap redemption. It must mean, as far as I understand, significantly below market value. If you've gone up to 25 times-- let's say a couple of thousand dollars, you'll get quite large, beautiful plots, for approx. 50000 kroner, which you can initially sell the week after for maybe a 20th time the price. Then the question arises: This transfer of values from one landowner to another, won't it appear to be expropriation, when one deliberately takes assets and values from one party and gives over to another with the state as an intermediary? And I'm actually a little bit unsure whether the Constitution gives us the opportunity to do such a large, national expropriation review. Then you'll see if it's like those who rent an empty and have gone into this, this looks so problematic that in the future you won't go into renting land. Because that's not the way to force people to make leases if they don't want to. But I think it might be a bit dramatic to say that a lease for an empty is such an abomination that it will prevent us, even though one might just need the plot for a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e526	I can assure the representative of Storberget that we in the Christian People's Party have also received many enquiries, and I believe that all the parties have been consulted on this matter. But unlike the Workers' Party, in the Christian People's Party, we are able to have two thoughts in our heads at the same time, and it is a justice perspective that lies in it – justice in relation to landowners and justice in relation to plotting parties. It's important to see these two things together. With my background from the prayer house in Nevlunghavn, I would also like to give my own witness here: I myself have a built-in plot in Nevlunghavn. There my mother - in - law and father - in - law built a house in 1961, which cost less than $100,000. I got it 14 days ago, and the valuer put it at 2.2 million. kr. Why? He asked a little about the quality of the house and checked a little, but he went from room to room and saw in how many windows he could see the sea. So, the location of the house was crucial to the value of the house. This means that the reason – land – was important for the price I could get. I can assure you that in the last five years there has been a sale of houses on the building site where the house has been about to fall down. The last thing I think about was for $2.75 million. kr – not because the house was important, but because it was in such an important place. It would be unreasonable in our opinion in the Christian People's Party if the landowner should not share in the economic upswing for which his very reason is necessarily the cause. In this debate, SV calls for justice – yes, justice for both parties or just for one? It is only argued – now I am not using direct quotation from the representative from SV, I am rewriting it and using my own words – that you have seen the greed of the landowners. Yes, in that case we have that greed regulated from the Storing. It may not exceed NOK 9000 per year. Objective. And I don't think it's that much if I had to pay 9 000 kroner per person for my plot out in Nevlunghavn. Objective. On the contrary, I think it's a reasonable price, precisely based on the price level that's there. At the same time, it is clear that I have also seen many cases where older people, who are not in the same economic situation that I am in, may have difficulties with an increase in the value of land that results in an increase in construction fees. But then we've said that there's some of the things we might have to consider in the evaluations that are going to take place when we're looking at the effects of this law that we've passed. The Labour Party says this is a social housing policy. Yes, it might, but it probably belongs even more at home in an adaptation to the world we live in today. We don't live in the past. Per. Today I pay 1000 kroner a year for the plot. I've asked the Santa Claus, who in this case actually is Statskog, if I can get the land, and then I've got the answer: Yes, you can. And I have received an offer that I am very pleased with. I see no reason that I am not going to buy the plot. When it's been said so much negative about Statskog, it might be, I think, different relationships in different places in the country. I'm not going to go into that. But we've been clear and clear also in relation to state property. It is not desirable for the State to be the one that should be price-driven in this context. My conclusion to this is that we want to look at what may have negative consequences, but we don't want to say at all costs that it's the builder who has all the rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e543	For its part, the President is not in doubt that the representative Marthinsen has a very good overview of the situation. But to go to the statistics on which parts have so and so many thoughts in their heads at the same time, I think it's going to be difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e547	In recent times, the revised Law on Landfill has been produced more or less as a disaster. The centre party is pleased that the majority does not seem to be allowed to be taken into account in the misery description that has been served. There has been a tendency to generalise the most extreme examples, as if they were representative. This creates the impression of greater drama than it seems to be the basis for. That being said, there are examples of the unfairness of the new law. The centre party is therefore open to consider various proposals that would mitigate the worst outcomes. This applies primarily to owners of dwellings in central districts of the country. The majority’s proposal that fixed anchorages under certain conditions be allowed to dissociate parts of the fixed floor is one such proposal which should be considered. In the assessment of Document No by the Centre Party The 8 proposal emphasises that today's rules do not give an automatic and general right to cancel the fast shipping charges to NOK 9 000 per person. target empty. As before 1 January 2002, Section 11 of the Act states that the fee cannot be higher than that normally paid on site. Furthermore, it has already been decided that the legislative changes should be evaluated two years after entry into force. The results of the evaluation shall, as is known, be submitted to the Stortinget as its own case. In general terms, the Centre considers that a ban on future land-fixing agreements would be a strong interference with private ownership and contract law. We cannot see that there are strong and weighty considerations that advocate such regulation. For many, a fast-track contract would be a more reasonable solution than an expensive mortgage. This option may also prevent the use of land. With regard to the proposal to facilitate the redemption of land, the proposal does not specify the amendments envisaged. The centre party cannot see that this could be carried out without undue expense to the landowners. Finally, let me point out that it is actually the State and the Information Service's fund that have emerged as wolves when it comes to realignment of property charges. This should be taken into account by both bodies, so that no unnecessary number of disputes arise, and so that the new law on Santa Claus is not infringed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e565	Santa Claus is as well-known a property arrangement that we've had here in the country from ancient times. Landing conditions have in practice been established by an agreement between a pavement and the one to build houses on the site. The party owns the plot, and the party owns the house. The land tax is the rent for the use of the land. The first comprehensive legal regulation of this type of agreement came under the Landfill Act of 1975. In 1996, a new Law on Landfills was adopted, which was subsequently amended, and subsequently introduced from 1 January 2002. The first years after the Second World War were marked by significant shortages of housing and a maximum price regulation covering rents, remuneration for housing, housing and debt securities, fixed and land prices. As you know, the last remainder of the rent regulation has been adopted. And now, in the context of the implementation of the 1996 Law on Landfills, the old price regulation of party fees is also liquidated. Under the new Law on Landfills, there is still a moderate maximum price adjustment for fixed charges. This maximum price adjustment is of particular practical importance for fastening conditions where it is apparent from the agreement of the parties that the fastening charge can be regulated in line with the land changes. Here, there is a limitation in the law for older priced fastenings that relate to land for residential or leisure homes. The restriction prevents the annual fastening charge from being set at NOK 9 000 for each cover empty, unless the monetary value changes themselves exceptionally provide a basis for greater regulation. If the plot is less than a dekar, the limit also applies to NOK 9000. Although the attachment has agreed that the land value is the basis for the regulation of the fastening charge, I am aware that the change in the law can provide the basis for a strong increase in the fastening charge in press areas, where the older price regulation has worked most. In particular, this may be problematic for plotters with large plots in the press areas. For a plot of three covers, where the contract text provides the basis for such a strong upsizing, the moderate price regulation will now accept a fixed charge increase of up to a maximum of NOK 27 000. It follows from a previous decision that the Landfill Act § 15 on the regulation of the fastage charge is to be evaluated after a period of time and that the evaluation is to be dealt with by Stortinget. I am concerned that this evaluation can be carried out as early as 2003 and that one should not wait until 2004. A consultation note from August 2001 including: deals with the rules on fastening fees and the redemption of fasteners, has been consulted and is dealt with by the Ministry of Justice. This hearing will, of course, take the department seriously, as I have also written in a letter to the committee. The majority of the Judicial Committee is in favour of the Storting asking the Government to ‘assess various proposals in which, under certain conditions, fastenings may dissociate parts of the land’. I will follow this up, possibly together with other proposals for changes to the Law on Landfilling. However, I would like to mention one aspect of the assessments. Although the fixture is dissociating parts of a site that can be technically constructed, it will not be possible to build on this defunct site without the construction complying with, among other things. municipal plans and decisions under the Planning and Building Act. Department and civilisation are subject to official authorizations, which according to existing legislation are not granted without delay. Let me then just confirm what some people have been about, and as my letter to the Committee of 30 April, where I say: ‘In the case of Party Fee Regulation, I would also like to mention that by letter of 10 April 2002 to the Ministry of Culture and the Church of the Information Society Fund, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture confirms a number of specific measures in relation to the regulatory practice of this large State outlaw.’ In this context, an attached copy of the message is shown. The problem with this case is that it is difficult, but very many of those who take a stand in it think it is very easy. The working party, for example: appear to disregard the existence of landowners. They disregard the kind of cases in which the representative Marthinsen was involved, while for example. The majority actually acknowledges that problems may arise, among other things. in the press areas, and is willing to go into it and look at it. Therefore, it was no coincidence that this law was from 1996 to what happened in 2000, when a restriction was adopted proposed by the Bondevik government, on a proposal from me. It was also no coincidence that it was I, as a growth representative with a background in a press area, who in Stortinget suggested that the law be evaluated after two years, which was also adopted. It's because you want to go into this to see where there might be a wrong intersection between ancient regulation and practice and the time we now have. I just wanted to say that. I would like to conclude by saying, when the Workers' Party turns as they do, that it was the government of Stoltenberg who chose to let the law that we now have, come into force, and then, before the election, send a letter of consultation that went in the opposite direction. It is free to choose politics, but you also have to take responsibility for your actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e595	First to the question of why the Labour Party government allowed the law to come into force. That's because, of course, we couldn't ignore the mass mass. We had to accept that the majority at Stortinget had a different view than the Government. But there was never any doubt as to what was the Government's position, and what was the party's position. That is why we also sent out a consultation proposal for a new and better law. Secondly, the fundamental problem here is that government parties want the main principle to be based on market values. The problem with that is to imagine a market when there is one owner of a house and one owner of a plot. It's quite pointless. It is not possible to get a reasonable definition of the market in such a situation. The only way to achieve this is to give landowners much greater opportunities to specify the land-filling charge. This has given us many examples of people around the country who have received thousands of dollars in increased housing costs. It's the Workers' Party against it. That is why we believe that we should keep the regulations that give the landowner the income that is contractually fixed and that at the same time ensures the owner of the dwelling against unreasonable increases. Over time, we want to wind up the entire scheme. It is in the long run a bad solution that there is one person who owns the plot, and another person who owns the house. That is why we have proposed a statutory right to take over the property at a reasonable price. It has also been rejected by the government parties. Thus, we still have a bad system, namely that there is one person who owns the property and another person who owns the dwelling. It's a system that invites conflict and problems. Therefore, the Workers' Party is going against the Government's arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e604	Of course, I take note and respect the reasons of the former Prime Minister for bringing the law into force, and also his right, with the position he has, to promote other proposals, as was also done by the government of Stoltenberg. However, we cannot get away from the fact that when the matter was up for treatment in Stortinget, there were different alternatives. The working party then voted in favour of avoiding a clean market price on land that had been laid down, a limit of NOK 9 000 was set. per 1 % Objective. So you chose something that, with the eyes of the Workers' Party, was a less evil. That's a good point of view. What we are now talking about is a contractual relationship between two parties. This contractual relationship is such that, for all contractual relationships concluded after 1983, this contractual relationship is regulated. The law we're talking about is trying to regulate relationships before 1983, and here are different contractual relationships. It's a deal where it's clearly said to regulate the ratio based on the consumer price index, and then it's a relationship where you can get into the value of the plot. That's the last question we're dealing with. I have been described in the debate as different. It can seem like you're sitting with a residential property on a large plot with a large value, or you have a leisure property. Because it turns out differently that way, for my part – in a previous situation where I was not the Council of State – I had a desire to evaluate the scheme after a certain period of time. Of course, I stand by that. I also agree with the opinions put forward by the majority that we need to look at how it might be possible to do something about the conditions in which this is going to happen. It won't be relevant for the government in which I sit, on the basis of principle, to dismiss any contractual relationships that can be concluded, when it's a contractual freedom, but we'll of course look at what's social, possibly negative, leftovers under the legislation we've had from another time, from the time of the old housing regulation. I have said that in my previous post, and I am sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e613	My question to the State Council Odd Einar Dørum is whether he believes that the proposal that suddenly came up during the examination of this matter in the Judicial Committee, that one should be able to say that parts of the land in order to avoid an excessive charge for those who party, is reasonable, when we know that many of the landowners have invested considerable sums in that land, in addition to having paid down over the years what the land was initially worth. And does the Council of State think that the owners will accept that the parties are saying away parts of the land to avoid this increase in fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e618	What I'm basing on is, first of all, that we've promised to evaluate a system against any biased outcome, and I feel that the bulk of the population asks us as part of this to consider looking at various proposals where parties on given terms can dismiss parts of the party seats. Of course we'll go into that. I have also said earlier in reply to the committee that we want to take seriously the hearing that the Stoltenberg government sent out, and that at least the Workers' Party itself would not take the time to take the time to say so. So we've been waiting for the hearing, and we're going to review the results of the hearing. I've confirmed it. But for SV it seems that this case is crystal clear; there are no landowners, there are no landowners in District Norway either, there is basically no one who can imagine having benefits from this arrangement. And that's the problem, that there's a balance between two different interests, and it turns out different in different parts of the country. And I feel like the Justice Committee's majority has described it. That's the dilemma they've asked me to face, to see if it can be solved in a better way than what we've gotten so far. And I insist that I will look at that and come back with the current proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e625	There has obviously been some confusion both in newspapers and in enquiries, which I want the Council of State to give a clear answer to – not least that people are calling and saying that now my building fee will be 9 000 kroner per year. Objective. When I'm asked what kind of contract they have, they say it says it's regulated every ten years. When it was regulated the last time – it was in 1985, or it was in 1995 – or the year it might be, depending on the length of these contractual periods. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is not such that the regulation of contracts entered into can only take place from the time described in the contract concluded. Is that not the way to understand that any contract can be changed for the current year, so that everyone in press areas will be charged up to NOK 9000 as of this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e630	According to my knowledge, it is the time specified in the contract, which is the regulatory time. I can mention several cases of Santa Claus that have been in the public domain. Let's say that the party contract has expired, and then you should be able to demand the land redeemed and the houses removed, with the counterclaim that you have to redeem the removal of the houses. In purely contractual terms, there is a fascinating negotiating situation. That means the landlord doesn't have all the cards on his hand. This means that even the person who is a tenant has significant negotiating cards. But it has become so in this debate that about any case is taken, and it is said that this is the case for everyone. Of course, some of those who have benefited from this do not say that much, even though some landowners would like to see them paid more. So it's become so that especially if you're sitting on large plots in the vicinity of the press areas, it can get a rash. Those results have the majority of the committee and I too, in a letter to the committee, said we were willing to go into it. When I suggested that the entire scheme be evaluated, it was actually because I experienced it as really difficult, and because after having been in politics for some years, I know that the conditions on one side of the country are not equal to those on another side of the country. And then you have to solve it by legislating like a columbi egg. That job has asked the majority of people to try to enter, and I will do so, both on the basis of the hearing initiated by the Stoltenberg government, and on the basis of the committee position that exists here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e639	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e644	I'm just going to be allowed to comment briefly on some of the things that have emerged in the debate. The representative Marthinsen said this was an adaptation to the world today. Yes, you could say that, for example. the 80-year-old woman in Akershus who has received an increase from 800 kroner to 27 000 kroner for the plot said – this is just an adaptation until today. But it won't actually help her, and it won't actually help the others who have also received such massive increases. In this way, I actually agree with what the Evening Post writes in commenting place on 27 May 2002, under the title ‘Unacceptable Santa Claus Act’, where it includes: read: ‘But in adapting to the market economy, it is necessary to proceed slowly and take the time to help. Changes in legislation which have dramatic consequences for most people at one time should be banned.’ And that's exactly what this is all about. It is in this way that I am calling for the recording that came from the Special Advance Party, in order to phase in this law so that you did not get this trousers. Because if that's how it adapts to the world today, then it's the Workers' Party's view that we don't actually want such an adjustment. There should necessarily be no generalisation either. There may be Santas who can easily sit on their plots, but it's just the weak who get problems, which this hall has to take into account when we adopt new laws. We have to make sure you don't get cases like this. This woman in Akershus, who got such a bill from Statskog, is sitting with a non-realizable value. She's not going to sell the Santa's. It's hard for her to start giving away parts of the plot, as proposed by the majority. And she won't benefit from the fact that the market has gone to heaven with respect to the plots throughout her lifetime. That's what we've challenged the government, that's where you have to come up with solutions. Here time is an enemy for us, for the longer time goes on, the more segmented this new law becomes, and the harder it actually becomes to turn in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e659	We have a government council that tends to be concerned about business, and then I also expect the council to read the setting. There were some allegations here from the Council of State that are actually not correct. In the setting, it is stated that SV does not automatically go in to liquidate the Santa Claus Institute itself. This is simply because we believe that the public must be able to use it to stimulate housing, while maintaining control of land use. The problem here is, among other things, State forest behaves as rodents, in the same way as, among other things, Oslo Municipality has been a rat in many residential matters. I believe that the Council of State must take seriously, and possibly make contact to prevent such behaviour. At the same time, there may also be a point to prevent the fragmentation and sale of public property. And we're also going to focus on that in our attitude. But what I asked in my reply to the Council of State instead, and which I believe the Council of State did not respond to, was whether he believes that the majority now submits its proposal, namely that one should be able to say separately parts of his property, will be realizable. Does the Council of State think that the owners will actually accept that the parties are saying away parts of the property, and that therefore you solve the problem by taking it by the way, as we see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e668	When I take the word again, it is precisely with background in the post from the representative of Storberget, who draws up an example that, of course, all of us when we hear it, initially seems unreasonable. It seems like something poor about it. And she can do it. It may be unfair to this person on the basis of his financial situation. I don't know anything about this. For that reason, we're saying that this is what we want to look at. If it makes an unreasonable statement, we have to look at it. What's the big problem here is that the representative Storberget and his like-minded people draw general conclusions from the single examples. What about the representative's assessment of the example that concerns me? Is he also drawing the conclusion that the undersigned has been exposed to is unreasonable? I think that in this case we have to be a little more sober, in that way that we can look at both sides. I believe that the proposal that the parties to the Government together with the Advance Party is what will be best for most people. But as I said, there may be some problems associated with this. I also want to ask, when you have given some examples: are these examples actually valid this year, or is there something that will happen once in the future? Are you taking sorrows in advance, or are the real problems that have emerged this year? I believe that this is in keeping with the fact that the proposal for evaluation is a very good proposal, which is not just a proposal, but was adopted in the previous period, and as this government says it will follow up. The representative of Storberget also calls for the phase-in proposed by the Progress Party. Was the Workers' Party involved in supporting it? Did the Workers' Party support that phase-in? If it had been a good idea, should you have written a comment on it? I remember we considered the proposal from the Progress Party at that time. We talked about it in the committee, and everyone stood on their own primary points of view, and no one gave his support, as secondary points of view, to this. There will be a little bit of mischief in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e682	As the Council of State mentioned in its statement, this is the last time we have left of the Workers' Party's housing regulations from the 1960s and 1970s, which the Willoch government was abolished. Of course, it has exactly the same consequences as at the time if you don't do anything about it: this market comes out of control, with money under the table and everything we knew from the previous regime. It is a bit strange, I think, if this is the case, a fixation fee has gone up from 800 kroner to 27 000 kroner. That must have been a pretty attractive area. It should be assumed that the house on that site has also had a not insignificant appreciation, and that it is then considered reasonable that the owner of the house will receive the appreciation of the house – we all agree on that. But the fact that the owner of the house is also going to get the appreciation of what he doesn't own, namely the plot, is for some of us more difficult to understand. What I want to address now, however, is the part of the proposal that prohibits the conclusion of party contracts. This will lead to smaller offers on plots. This will lead to a tighter market and thus higher prices. A number of landowners will simply not put land at their disposal if they are not allowed to secure the future performance of their property. Also, for many people who are going to build a house or a cabin, it can be very convenient and necessary at the moment of construction, not to lay out the equity that the land price represents, but instead could rent the land and use the equity they might have, to build the house or cabin. But when it goes 30 years, and the economy for most is probably better, should you get in the situation that you can say that now I should really have the appreciation both of what I owned, and of the plot I didn't own, and that I have paid for a price I have agreed on? Is it so unreasonable to regulate an agreement which is a consequence of a rigorous law that the content of the contract which has been voluntarily concluded could not be applied? That's the change in the law we're now doing. I think that if you have some sense of the rights of the landowners – I know that it is an argument that does not have such a great impact in the Workers' Party – and for those who take care of the principle of ownership, it can't be unreasonable to make this adjustment now. Otherwise – something I have had the opportunity to say by saying that a couple of previous occasions – this is a matter that we have debated long enough in Stortinget. Fortunately, we have come up with a sensible solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e695	Regarding the question of phase-in, I just have to say thank you to the representative Marthinsen when he now referred that there was no deafening cheer – not even from the Workers' Party – for that proposal earlier. At the same time, I would like to say that I have chosen to read what the Government has done with regard to the State Forest and the Information Society's fund, where they have just introduced such a form of escalation, but also had other opportunities to find reasonable solutions. I think that's reasonable – or actually very positive. Then it is that Stoltenberg made a little visit to the Council of State and talked about not having to base the market price, but follow the agreement. To me, it appears as ‘contradiction in terms’ – that is, when you have agreed to the market price, you cannot say that you should follow the agreement by not following the wording of the agreement. It is precisely where there is an agreed market value between two parties, that there is a limited opportunity here, but nevertheless a certain opportunity, to do so. And then to the example of minimum pensioners with large plots that get a high rent. The question is probably strictly addressed as to who is the tenant, who should be critical of what you can take out, or what you rent out. In that sense that it was supposed to be the tenant's economy as the minimum pensioner who was supposed to be the problem, you see this as the rental of a dwelling in general, and take it up as a question of housing support. If necessary, the Government may return with the necessary legislative changes in that context. It may not be the status of the lessee after 30 years that determines whether or not to comply with the contract. It is also a little strange to hear what interest the Workers' Party shows suddenly for the pensioners and the minimum pensioners. I can only say in that context that if the Workers' Party really feels sorry for the pensioners, then they can be with the Advance Party and do something in social security. Then you'll have to do something with your pensions, and don't take care of the Santa Claus of individual pensioners. Although the Workers' Party will hardly stand up for the pensioners, as the Progress Party does for social security, they are of course welcome to try – although there will also be a new practice for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e708	The representative of Thorkildsen asked me a question. I do not mean to remind you that I said that SV was against party arrangements, but that they did not place the same emphasis on the landowner's assessment as the majority did. In that case, there is a substantive political disagreement. The second part of the question was about how I looked at the proposal of the committee, and I'll quote what I said in my post: ‘The majority of the Judicial Committee is in favour of the Storting asking the Government to ‘assess various proposals in which, under certain conditions, fastenings may dissociate parts of the land’. I will follow this up, possibly together with other proposals for changes to the Law on Landfilling.’ Then I added: ‘I would, however, mention one aspect of the assessments. Although the fixture is dissociating parts of a site that can be technically constructed, it will not be possible to build on this defunct site without the construction complying with, among other things. municipal plans and decisions under the Planning and Building Act. Department and conurbation are subject to official authorizations, which according to the applicable legislation are not granted without delay.’ After saying this, I would say that in a previous line I have also realized that there are different conditions in different parts of the country. So we're trying, with the majority's participation, to find a system of justice, given that it's possible. When we have a regulatory practice that is very old, and in the case of residential property, we have in practice abolished all regulation for approx. 20 ago, we try 20 years later to see what we can do with it, without being unreasonable. It is at least a demanding craft, both politically and legally. The majority have asked me to look at the sides of it, and I am prepared to do that. Some have also said that we should slow down and various representatives have referred to the information relating to the Letter of the Ministry of Culture and the Church of 10 April 2002 to the Foundation of the Information Society, which refers to ‘a number of specific measures’ relating to ‘the regulatory practice of this major State away party’. And then finally, because it was recognized that there could be a dilemma when it came to large plots in press areas, the proposal of NOK 9 000 was actually adopted in its time rather than putting a free market price on the old firm agreements, where one had the right to regulate the relationship at a specific time set out in the agreement. Because this could represent a dilemma, I in time promoted a proposal to look at the scheme so that it could be evaluated after two years. And because I recognize that this is a matter that has many sides, I have said earlier in my post that I am willing to look at this evaluation before the two years have passed, and of course I stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e727	I would say that the Workers' Party's proposal to abolish, remove, liquidate and ban the Santa Claus Institute is very anti-district. Just remember that a small user with some property in District Norway, even in Hedmark County, the County of Storberg, will not be allowed to rent out parts of his land, but will have to sell his land. Why can small users in District Norway not secure income for their use in the coming generations by renting out parts of the land and obtaining regular income from it? Maybe the soil and the forest are both sleek and un papery, and maybe renting out is the opportunity to get incomes to this farm, so that one can live there and maintain the settlement in the districts. In addition, opportunities for outdoor life can also be exploited. Rents of land may even provide viable conditions for the settlement in the districts. Why is the Workers' Party so afraid of this? I would say that the policy they are now pursuing is directly hostile to the very many who live in the districts. In addition, it was mentioned that Sweden was a good precursor country. I mentioned earlier that the tax on housing in Sweden is sky high. Where we have pro-miles in taxation, the Swedishs have percentages. And not enough, the majority of Swedes don't even own their own house. And is that how the Workers' Party wants it to be in Norway, that the majority of the population should not own their own property and own their own house? Should it also be sweet in Norway? With regard to ownership in Norway, many people have been able to build houses precisely because they could rent empty cheaply, so they don't have to raise equity to buy land. But the Workers' Party now wants to introduce that it is not possible to make an agreement between two parties on the rental of land. In addition, the Labour Party stated that it was highly unreasonable that the landowner should receive the increase in value of his own land. That's not very unreasonable. What kind of view of ownership is this? Who is it to own in Norway? Is it only the state that will be allowed to own something in this country? And would the Workers' Party's vision be different if the state and municipality owned every millimeter of the Kingdom? The proposal from the Workers' Party concerning this with the Santa Claus Institute shows that one is actually against the Basic Law § 105. Landowners should not be allowed to receive money for their property, says the Workers' Party. There shall be a free transfer from a fastener to a party – free transfer. This is a theft, almost a robbery, and a private expropriation of property in Norway. Paragraph 105 of the Basic Law states: "If the State's debt requires any person to give up his movable or immovable property for public use, he should receive full compensation from the State Treasury." I also think that this paragraph should be read by the Labour Party and the Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e741	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[Fotation, see page 2989]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e754	Then we are ready for voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e812	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to make available to the Riksaudition in any context the documents requested by the Riksaudition to be made transparent.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e855	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals leading to the establishment of a permanent nationwide police surveillance body for the handling of notifications and complaints made to the police or the prosecution authority.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e880	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by No Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose amendments to the Law of 20 December 1996 on fasts containing a prohibition on regulating fasts by market value and ensuring that regulation can only be made in line with the consumer price index.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the Landfill Institute itself, as well as access to the redemption of immovable property with a view to making redemption easier and more reasonable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-10.ana.ud2174e911	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose amendments to the Law of 20 December 1996 on land fasts which prohibit future fixed contracts and to facilitate and cheaper the redemption of properties which are currently leased for housing or leisure purposes after a certain number of years and so that the possibilities for charging increases are limited to such legal status before 1 January 2002.’»
