ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e67	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each of the party groups and five lines with replies to the Minister of Finance's statements. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e78	In yesterday's financial debate, much of the debate on the issues on the map today was taken, and the framework for the decisions we are making in Odelstinget was also laid. As can be seen from the setting from page 45 and beyond, a number of amendments have been made to the Government's proposal. There was, of course, a majority vote at the end. Some changes have been made. But mostly, even after the negotiations, there has been not so much to do with the tax side. Now let me first grasp what's the starting point, that's a determination of the tax for next year. Tax policy has several objectives. It shall level out living conditions between different parts of the country — between healthy and sick, between people at work and between old and young, to mention some of the groups. The tax also has major redistribution mechanisms in itself, which, as politicians, we must have a firm look at and see how it works. The tax relief of the Workers' Party compared to 2002 is approx. SEK 6.8 billion. It's net $3.8 billion less than the government's proposal. In our alternative budget, we have chosen to give tax relief to those with the worst economy and to business, while those with the highest incomes have increased tax. In the government's proposal and in line with what has also been achieved in the negotiations with the Progress Party in the Stortinget, the profile is very different: tax relief for those with high incomes and expensive housing properties, tax incentives for the unemployed and the sick. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have opted in their draft budget to provide them with the greatest tax relief with the highest revenue. In addition to a significant increase in the entry point of the top tax, it is proposed that health insurance and treatment paid by the employer be made deductible and that the housing tax be reduced relatively most for those with expensive dwellings. In order to create economic space for these reliefs, the government of welfare goods for the unemployed, sick, insured, disabled and students. In the view of the Labour Party, this shows that the government’s priority of tax relief affects the weakest and weakens important welfare services. The Workers' Party proposes tax relief in the taxation of persons, which has a better distribution profile than the Government's proposal. The working party proposes to raise the peak tax entry point step 1 to NOK 325000 for classes 1 and NOK 347000 for class 2, and that the entry point for step 2 be reduced to NOK 730000. At the same time, the Labour Party proposes an increase in the payroll deduction to NOK 33 500, which will benefit them with the lowest income. The working party and the intermediate parties agreed in the 2001 State budget to impose a tax on dividends on the recipient’s hand. This tax should be temporary until a new system of taxes on production and capital was in place. Despite the fact that such a system was still under investigation, the Bondevik II government chose to remove the dividend tax in the 2002 budget. The Workers' Party proposes to reintroduce the dividend tax until a new system of business and capital taxation is in place. The tax rate is set at 14 p.m. and a base deduction of NOK 10000 is granted. No other type of income is so unevenly distributed among different groups as share income. A small group of people with high income receives most of the dividends paid. Internationally, it is also common for a separate tax on dividends. The Workers' Party also proposes the removal of the discount on unlisted shares, SME listed shares and basic fund certificates. For the purposes of calculating property taxes on unlisted shares, they are valued at 65 p.m. the tax base of the shares. The property value, which is based on the tax base of the assets, will normally be significantly lower than the real value of the share. SMB listed shares at Oslo Stock Exchange are valued at 65 pst. the price value. The working party goes in to raise the value to 100 pst. of the tax value of unlisted companies and 100 pst. the price value of shares listed on the SME list. Also basic fund certificates must be valued at 100 pst. the price value. The government proposes to reduce the values of housing and recreational property by 5 pst. In the view of the Workers' Party, this will largely benefit those who have expensive dwellings and properties of high equivalency. The Labour Party is in favour of proposing a new and fairer system for the taxation of dwellings and other properties during 2003 and keeping the Equation Fees unchanged until further notice. The Workers' Party will therefore oppose the Government's proposal to change the Equation Tariffs and refer here to the setting. The Government proposes and receives a majority to ensure that the employer’s coverage of treatment insurance and direct costs of treatment is tax-free. Such a scheme will break with key fiscal and health policy objectives. The general rule in tax legislation is that all types of income should be taxed. This applies regardless of the form in which the income has been received; such as wages, salaries, in kind, the coverage of private expenditure or other financial support. Furthermore, a system of tax exemptions for medical treatment and insurance would constitute unacceptable discrimination with regard to workers. Some will be covered by private treatment costs free of tax, while others will have to choose between paying equivalent treatment with their own taxed resources or waiting for public health treatment. The Labour Party and SV oppose this proposal. The government proposes to raise the deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations from NOK 900 to NOK 6000, and this would be a separate deduction. The Labour Party is opposed to this proposal. Instead, we propose that an overall deduction be made for gifts to certain non-governmental organisations, trade union quotas, etc. increase from 900 kroner to 1350 kroner, and we propose a further increase to 1800 kroner in the 2004 state budget. Two pillars are clear in the Labour Party's tax policy: the taxes are intended to finance society's infrastructure, education, culture, health, care and social purposes. And they're going to help ensure that the social and economic differences in the population don't become unreasonable. It is also important that we have a tax system that is understood and accepted and developed in interaction between governments and taxpayers. The Workers' Party will support the Government's proposal to increase excise duties by 2.2 pst., corresponding to the increase in prices. The Government proposes to impose a levy on HFC/PFC gases, despite the industry’s pointing out that such a charge would undermine the established return scheme for cold products, etc. In the view of the Workers' Party, this could undermine the environmental policy objectives of the levy. We will therefore accept that charge. The Government proposes to include single-use bottles in the environmental tax system for drinking packaging. The Workers' Party supports this, but will propose that the basic charge for disposable packaging be removed for spring water in order to ensure that the collection of spring water remains at source, so that the brand name ‘source water’ is maintained and the workplaces of the existing taps are maintained. Some words about the legislative changes made by the majority in the law on small boats and recreational craft, which mean that it will no longer be mandatory to register recreational craft in the register that is now built up. The Government Parties and the Advance Party are implementing this change despite the fact that all technical advice – from the police and customs authorities, from the Maritime Directorate and the Trade and Service Industry’s Main Organisation – is based on the fact that the register is of great value. Yes, even Royal Norwegian Boat Federation now says that they believe the authorities should think again before the mandatory registration obligation expires. The objections are quite heavy, because it is pointed out that lifting the registration obligation will weaken maritime safety, weaken the fight against economic crime and boat thefts, and that would mean about 90 million. kr which has until now been used to establish and build a register which is of great benefit to both owners and society will be discarded. It is sad to note that here the ideology controls the government parties and the Progress Party so strongly that it has negative practical consequences for about 300 000 small boat owners and for safety at sea. The resistance to the small boat register has primarily been in the fear that it will be used to impose a separate charge on small boats. It has not been the idea of the Workers' Party with the register, and we are therefore promoting a proposal for a legislative amendment which means that the register cannot be used for this purpose. I am therefore addressing this proposal, which is included in the vote. I also deal with the proposals where the Labour Party is alone or together with other parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e129	The representative Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e132	In yesterday's debate, the majority agreed that in today's situation, where Norwegian competitive business is struggling with a high wage level, strong krone prices and high interest rates, it is important that financial policy helps to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. But within a tight budget, it does not matter how the money is spent. A krone spent on public expenditure increases the pressure in the economy more than a krone spent on tax reliefs. The right is therefore satisfied that the Government continues its efforts to reduce taxes and taxes. And we are pleased that the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party is moving in the same direction. In total, we have reached DKK 19 billion of the Sem Declaration's goal of NOK 31 billion. And someone claimed that this was too ambitious a goal that would also frustrate the welfare community. The working party, on the other hand, increases the tax burden by approximately NOK 4 billion compared to the budget adopted yesterday. In tax policy, the Right Party and the Workers' Party may think something different. The right-hand side thinks that we have to be competitive, that is. have lower taxes, in order to reduce the pressure and increase the growth power of the economy, thereby securing jobs and improving the welfare society. The Labour Party appears to believe that an expanded and increased tax base that reduces Norwegian private ownership and an underlying expenditure growth that is twice the agreed budget, with the risk of increased interest rates, is the way to strengthen the welfare society and jobs. For example, the working party and SV will: reintroduce double taxation of dividends on shares, because they have found that the richest are the richest ones to be satisfied most by such a proposal. And then? There are, of course, people with capital we need, capital that can be put into new jobs. The best social policy is to create jobs. Norway needs more capitalists, not fewer. Norway actually needs more private ownership, not less. The main reliefs coming next year will help improve the competitive conditions of Norwegian business. Together with the changes that were adopted last year, business will save taxes and taxes of around 13 billion kroner next year compared to two years ago. It is noted that the air passenger charge, the investment tax and the double taxation of dividends on shares have been removed, that the option tax has been improved, that tax deductions have been introduced for the research costs of companies and that depreciation rates have increased both years. But also taxes on work are reduced. The point of entry for top taxes is increased from SEK 320000 to DKK 340700 in class 1 and from NOK 342200 to NOK 364000 in class 2. In two years, 135,000 fewer people will pay top taxes next year compared to two years ago, and 210 000 fewer than the Workers' Party's proposal. The Labour Party says that we give the greatest tax relief to those with high incomes. Then we probably have a slightly different measure of what's high income. The average income for those working full-time is NOK 346,000, i.e. even those who earn below average income will pay top taxes. I don't think they feel so very rich either. But it is not just these ‘rich ones’ who get lower taxes. Together with raising the deduction and increasing the rate of the minimum deduction, those who serve at least have also received a lower tax. The right is also satisfied with the fact that the government continues to slow down the house tax by reducing the cost of the equation by 5 pst, and we are looking forward to it being completely removed. The introduction of tax credits can achieve clear policy objectives in a good way. For example, we want to increase research and development in Norwegian enterprises. Industry-neutral tax deductions have a better and wider function than whether politicians should pick the winners by subsidising individual industries. In order to help sick and injured workers get back to work more quickly, deductions from private treatment insurance are made tax-free. In order to improve the conditions for voluntary organisations, a separate deduction of NOK 6000 is introduced for gifts to these organisations. Kindergartenmates will be tax-free on the employer’s and employee’s hands for the employer’s payment of kindergarten for their employees. So here, a group of workers gets an advantage in non-taxed employment, and the greater the benefit, the higher the income. And the Workers' Party and SV claim that it is the Government that gives tax relief to the rich! The amendment shall apply from 2003, but the lots have not contributed any money to it. I don't think it's very responsible. It could be expensive, anything from a few hundred million to over the billion. In fact, SV has actively defended this tax reduction in the media. The Labour Party has probably been a bit more cautious, and I appreciate that in the light of their remarks in the budget position, and also now on the basis of the rapporteur's reasons why tax deductions could not be accepted for treatment insurance. It is said that the general rule in tax legislation is that all types of income should be taxed, regardless of the form in which the income is received, such as wages, salaries, in kind, the coverage of private expenditure or other financial support. Deviations from this will lead to unacceptable discrimination between workers, since some sheep and some do not. How in all days can the Workers' Party defend tax freedom in kindergartens when one is so strongly opposed to tax reductions for health insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e160	In our alternative state budget, we have a number of proposals for changes in laws when it comes to taxes. We believe that it is particularly important that we get a lower, simpler and more conservative tax system than we have today. It will improve the efficiency of the economy, and fewer resources go to tax planning and tax collection. Larger resources can then be used for production and value-added. Lower taxes and charges also lead to lower price increases. Lower taxes and charges thus also provide for lower pay supplements, which in turn lay the basis for lower interest rates and exchange rates. Lower taxes make working more profitable. This stimulates a web site so that we can increase economic growth without capacity problems. I want to go through some of the proposals that require changes to the law, which is the theme here today. The first area in which we propose changes of promise is the untimely taxing of a company car. From the 2002 budget, the tax base for company car users increased from 10,000 km to 13 000 km per year. years. This means that a private use tax will be taxed regardless of how much one is running. In addition, the travel distance comes to and from work. The right thing to think about is that the average private use of commercial car users is 8 500 km. When one increases this from 10,000 km to 13 000 km, it is very untimely. If this option is checked, the tax will be applied to a non-existent private run. We think this is a strange principle, and we want to remove it. A special deduction for the elderly is also a deduction that we want to increase. Apart from the change in the 2002 government budget, this deduction has not been regulated for many years. Also in the 2003 budget, the deduction is proposed unchanged, and that means, of course, a real decrease in the value of the deduction. We want to increase this from NOK 18 360 to NOK 25 000, so one can take back something that you have lost because of many years of lack of regulation. We also have a proposal for depreciation rates. I would like to say in the introduction that I am pleased that, when it concerns the balance group d), the machines, have been passed on to an increase in the depreciation rate from 15 to 20 pst. But in addition to that, we also have proposals for balancing group c) and balancing group e) so that we get back to the situation we had before the 1999 budget conciliation. It's important that we get good and competitive depreciation conditions in Norway. This would improve the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises and thus secure Norwegian jobs. When tax incentives for research and development are involved, we take a positive view of the changes proposed, leading to more people being covered by this scheme. However, we would like to point out that the Hervik selection proposed and the Stortinget concluded that one would have a tax rate of 25 pst, and not 20 pst, as is the case today. If there are other special rules that mean that you don't want to follow up the Hervik selection and what the Storting said about it before, I think it would be good to get it out. We also note that the fishermen’s and seafarers’ deduction has changed from 70 000 kroner to 80 000 kroner. It has been the same for many years. We think it's positive that it's going to be 10,000 kroner taller. We argued that this is the first step in a further escalation plan when it applies to this subtraction. The trade union quota has also increased from NOK 900 to NOK 1 100. We're going to end up doing that substantially. But basically, in our primary proposal, we want to remove this deduction post. The reason why this has a very small value for the individual tax payer. After the increase, it will be NOK 308 in tax bills, before the increase was NOK 252 in tax bills. It doesn't mean much to each tax payer, but it means more work for tax payers, for employers, for equality offices, and also for trade unions to handle these rules. That's why we want to remove this deduction item and instead give you monthly larger tax credits in other areas. We mean that this is a measure that goes towards getting a flatter and simpler tax system. When it applies to the deduction of gifts to voluntary organizations, where one has increased the amount, we still end up with it and think it's positive. We are pleased that one has proposed 5 pst. reduction in taxes on housing, which is still too small. So we're proposing 25 pst. reduction in addition to that proposed by the Government. So in this way, we can have a goal of getting housing taxes removed during this big time period, and that was probably the government's goal initially, but it doesn't seem to be achieved. Otherwise, we have some comprehensive proposals to put in place a net pay system for Norwegian seafarers who are exposed to international competition. We want a system according to the Swedish model. We emphasize that there is a very great and significant competence in maritime nutrition. It is therefore important that we in Norway have the same framework as one in the countries with which it is natural to compare ourselves. After the numbers I have, there are still 18 000 Norwegian seafarers, and in addition there are 80,000 within the maritime industry. If we don't get a level playing field, these jobs will disappear slowly, but safely. That's what we think is a pity. That's why we want to fight for this profession, and therefore we want to be in favour of a level playing field. We have also written a part about this in the setting, so that those who want to know more about what we think can read there. The main objective of our proposals is to provide the basis for increasing economic growth and higher value creation than one would achieve with a budget where we have a separate higher taxes and taxes. Now, however, most of our proposals will not have multiples in this round, but we are pleased that in negotiations with the government party we have made some good changes on the tax side which is at least moving in the right direction. Although these proposals are not very close to what we wanted, and as we also believe the situation is, we still believe that it is a step in the right direction. Finally, I would like to re-examine the Progress Party's proposals that we have promoted either individually or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e190	Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e193	SV's fiscal policy has two overall objectives. One is that it has to be red, and the other is that it has to be green. It has to be red for justice, and it has to be green for the environment. This is the direction of what we are doing in relation to this motion for a resolution, and what we are also doing in our alternative budget. There is no target for taxes and taxes to be the highest possible, but it is an objective that taxes and charges should be fair and function in such a way that society is redistributing from those who have the most, to those who have the least, from environmentally harmful behaviour to environmentally friendly behaviour. I think it is an objective that people should pay their taxes with understanding – not necessarily with joy, but with understanding. It's that people feel that they're getting back from society what they've contributed to. In the tax regime of the Government, it is clear that this is not a goal at all. And then you have to have a greater degree of self-payment, you have to have a greater degree of poverty in the municipalities. Low tax is itself a goal, not what effect it has or how that society should actually be. For SV, the overall objective is to have a good welfare society paid by community services. That means we pay in, and then we get services back from society, like good schools, good kindergartens, safe and good care for the elderly and good infrastructure. This is not to be financed by a greater degree of self-payment, to which this government gives up. It is, in SV's opinion, profoundly unsocial. If you're going to go through SV's tax returns, this is the perspective of what we're doing. That means that in terms of the different entry points in the tax, we regulate these. We've gone to a slightly lower peak rate point. We use this money again to distribute to well-being. We have also made some other changes that have the same perspective, namely that those who have the most have to do the most. The best example of this is that this government does not want tax on dividends. This is a curious phenomenon, while all comparable countries have, of course, taxes on dividends. It is interesting what comes out in the correspondence with the Ministry of Finance, and I thought I would read this for the sake of curiosity. It's actually more than 90 pst. the share yield goes to a small handful of people in Norway. In a table set out in the SV's alternative budget and also in the position of the Financial Committee, one will see that they are approx. 3,463,000 taxpayers who have income less than 1 million, in practice almost have no income from dividends. But if you look at the 31,000 people in Norway who have income over 1 million, they actually have almost all the dividends, and that's not small sums we're talking about. And we're talking about the 226 richest in Norway, which has an income of more than 20 million. kr, these have an average tax-free dividend of more than NOK 21 800000. Thus, the 226 richest in Norway have an average tax-free income of over 21 million a year. kr. In SV's view, this is deeply unfair, deeply unfair and, of course, this money, like what happens in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, England, the United States or any comparable country, must be taxed. The reason why this is money society needs to redistribute, because an important purpose of the tax system is to redistribute. This is where SV and the government especially go in heavy clinches. SV's fight against poverty is about redistribution, while the government's fight against poverty is about charity, that the second poorest are going to pay some extra shards to those at the very bottom of the rank ladder, and this is going to be very wrong. For a society, promoting redistribution, fair distribution, is one of the most important things in terms of security, non-discrimination and not least in terms of what is my starting point, that taxes are to be paid with understanding. In yesterday's debate, the place of industry was given great attention, and that is necessary. The industry is struggling because we have a monetary policy regime that, at my discretion, is completely unreasonable. As a result, Norwegian industry has incurred a cost that our neighbouring countries do not have, because principles are violated in the Government and in the Bank of Norway. We have tried to mitigate this by going in to raise the depreciation rate for machines in industry from 15 to 20 pst. This also has a majority in Stortinget, and also in Odelstinget, and I am pleased with that. This will be an important measure to raise investment rates and innovation capacity, which is necessary for a high-cost country if we are to be competitive on an international market. What we are doing, in addition, is tightening down the depreciation rules for the oil industry, because we want to release investment to other sectors of the Norwegian society. It is estimated that the oil industry will receive between DKK 60 and 70 billion of investment each year, which is one third of the total investment made in Norway, including public sector investment, i.e. for school buildings, kindergartens or whatever else. It is quite obvious that a country is extremely vulnerable when so much of its economy rests on one pillar, namely the petroleum industry and petroleum revenues. Our wish – and that is a wish that is at least rhetoricalally expressed by many – is that we must have more legs to stand on, we must have a more diverse business life, we must have a more knowledge-based business life in the mainland economy. This means that changes are needed, including through the tax system, which make it more attractive to invest in the mainland economy and not so attractive to invest in the oil economy. This change is necessary in order for us in Norway to have the opportunity to stand on more legs and thus become less vulnerable, for example. in the event of a dramatic fall in the oil price. We had that in 1998, when the oil price fell, at some point it was down in the $9 barrel. This led to a crisis mood in the Norwegian economy, not least in Stortinget, which took several decisions almost across the table to ensure that this was compensated. If you want to think about a country's long-term resource management, a country's income, and not least stable, safe, good jobs over the years, that kind of gradual conversion is necessary for a nation. Let me also briefly comment on some other aspects that are mentioned in the setting. We have a lot of our own proposals, and I can take them up right away, so it's done. We're increasing the credit card limit for young people to NOK 35,000. This is a proposal that also the government parties – at least right – launched in the election campaign, without me seeing here that they have followed it up. It is necessary as a handshake to young people, so that they have the opportunity to work alongside studies or whatever else. This is a good reserve of labour, and it makes sense that young people can make a few extra dollars. We're going to go in for that. We have faith that over time you will be able to create a majority for this. We oppose, of course, the proposal that tax deductions should be made in order to pay health insurance for their employees. This leads to discrimination. This means that those who have an attractive job, those who are key employees in an enterprise, will be able to gain a tax advantage, and not least a health benefit that other employees will not receive. This becomes particularly evident in a country where we have health cows. Health cows are basically a udder, but it's hard to imagine being able to get rid of them overnight. This means that medical priorities are actually made through the tax system. This means that for two people with the same illness in the same workplace, the place you have in the company will be decisive for whether you are going to be treated or not. SV is also satisfied with the model submitted by the Government in the case of VAT exemptions for NRK. This means that NRK is now more able to compete with commercial channels. This is based on a proposal from SV that was endorsed by Stortinget, and we are pleased with the follow-up. Let me also comment on this by saying that the government once again chooses to reduce the value of the equation for housing. Housing is one of the largest assets we have. What is the big problem with this, however, is that the taxation of housing is so different. Unfortunately, during the last growing-up period, the centre party destroyed the possibility of getting a fair rate system for housing, which had reduced the housing tax or no housing tax for eight out of ten dwellings. Instead, this government is now choosing to reduce the value of the equation continuously in a desire to remove the house tax. Housing is a large asset, in line with many other things, which are taxed very low compared to the level in any other country. But the most important thing must be to create justice in the tax system. And when the starting point is like crazy, the result is also going to be crazy. Two identical dwellings in the same municipality can thus have a completely different tariff value and thus a completely different tax base. Unfortunately, the Senter party jumped off in the previous growing-up period, when this was being treated. That time we could have had a majority. With the sitting magnification it seems relatively unlikely. Those who want this unfairness must continue. Let me also address the proposal on the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations. We want grants instead of tax-motivated schemes. It concerns this proposal, and it concerns the proposal for a deduction from research, simply because grants are a better and more accurate scheme, by enabling it to take more than those with tax-based schemes. That is why this is a reasonable principle. Grants will also help to meet smaller organisations and not just large ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e221	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e224	For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important to facilitate the proper functioning of voluntary organisations. This is because voluntary organisations are making invaluable efforts for children and young people — yes, they are doing a fantastic welfare effort in several areas where the state is failing. Thus, voluntary organisations are absolutely important contributors to Norway being a good country to live in. That is why it is very important that we apply a deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations today of NOK 6000. It will clearly contribute to increased revenues for voluntary organisations. It is estimated that it will generate a reduced tax income of approx. One hundred million. kr, which means an income of several hundred million kroner for voluntary organisations. And I'm surprised to note that the Workers' Party, when it argues against the proposal for increased tax deductions for gifts to non-governmental organisations, says that they see this as a threat to public revenue. Let's hope that the giver's joy to the volunteer organizations increases sharply. The reduced tax revenues are money well spent. Providing the voluntary organisations with liberal conditions is a good economy for society. At the same time as the introduction of tax credits for gifts to non-governmental organisations, it is proposed that the trade-union deduction should become a separate deduction and that the coordination with the deduction of gifts to non-governmental organisations should therefore cease. It is difficult to find good arguments against separating these deductions. The trade unions are important, and it is right to cancel the amount. For many of us, it is not about either paying the union quota and wanting to deduct it or giving gifts with tax deductions to non-governmental organisations. It's a boat – and. Government parties believe it is important to strengthen the NRK as a non-commercial public broadcaster with good quality and a wide range of programmes for the whole population. The Government therefore proposes that NRK’s public broadcasting activities be included in the VAT system with full deductibility and a reduced VAT rate of 12 pst. on the broadcasting fee. In this way, the NRK receives an increased level of income that is stable over time. For the government parties, there have been three important aspects in this case: firstly, the possibility for the NRK to purchase externally produced films or programmes. We believe that it is desirable to remove the price barrier between self-production and purchased programmes. Furthermore, it is desirable that the NRK be able to rationalise and streamline its own operations through competitive outsourcing. In order for it to be profitable, the VAT barrier must be removed. Finally, it is important to strengthen the economy of the NRC and to provide good economic conditions. Today, the NRK is exempt from the general VAT obligation covering broadcasters. This means that NRK’s competitors are subject to the general VAT code and thus have the right to deduct input tax. VAT on purchased programmes means that for NRK there is a significant difference between self-production and the purchase of programmes. Furthermore, the proposed change in VAT rules will increase the NRK’s ability to compete with parts of the business, thus enhancing software production outside the NRK. We now have a new scheme through the inclusion of the NRK in the VAT system with full deductibility of input VAT and a VAT rate of 12 p.m., where the country returns the increased VAT revenue to the NRK. This scheme, combined with an increase in broadcasting charges, strengthens the economy of the NRK. The removal of the price barrier between external and internal productions means that the NRK will now be able to derive an additional gain through the efficiency and purchase of services and productions externally. Christian People's Party and Government want more and cheaper kindergartens. So far we're in line with the parties behind the nursery arrangement. However, when the same co-workers are in favour of a change in the law that gives tax exemption to employers and employees in terms of the provision of free space in kindergarten, we are no longer included. This makes kindergarten a very beneficial place for both employees and employers. Today's economy had several calculations last week that showed how much tax relief this would bring to the various income groups. And these calculations clearly show that there are large and largest tax havens for those who earn the most. This is a scheme that is more favorable the more a server. It's not very social. It is easy to understand that the Progress Party wants such a system. However, that SV ensures a majority in the UK for tax credits in several hundreds of trillions, when tax credits go to those who earn the most are strange. SV has been very concerned with the values and choices of the Christian People's Party. There is little emphasis on such an argument when one sees what SV himself is willing to give in negotiations with the Progress Party. In addition to the unemployed, there is reason to believe that large groups of workers will not be offered such a scheme. It is a system that is the easiest to exploit for managers and others who negotiate their own salary, and thus hits a not the group that really needs support for the nursery expenses the most. This mechanism will also be adopted without one knowing what the economic consequences will be. What kind of responsibility is that from, for example, The working party? It is difficult to understand that the Workers' Party is opposed to giving increased tax credits in connection with gifts up to NOK 6000 to non-governmental organisations such as the Norwegian Federation of Scouts, the Salvation Army and the Red Cross, while at the same time being in favour of excessive tax relief for high-income groups that may receive childcare facilities paid by the employer. The Christian People's Party believes that this is a strange and wrong priority. Finally, I would like to say that good arrangements are being adopted today for business, culture and voluntary organisations. The Christian People's Party is pleased about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e260	With regard to the Central Party's tax arrangements, I refer you to yesterday's debate. We raise the peak tax entry point less than the government. According to our estimate of income is less than NOK 180 000, and there is a total of NOK 1.9 billion in relation to the government's proposal. One step is to increase the percentage of the minimum deduction, another to give the same amount of NOK 1000 in tax deductions if the income is less than NOK 180 000. A third is to increase the credit card limit, not just for students, but for everyone with low incomes, up to NOK 40000. The dividend tax is reintroduced. We're using it to finance the reversal of unsocial cuts, and it's just about $1.2 billion that goes with it. We impose some additional charges on a total of approx. One billion dollars, among others. tobacco and alcohol, and it goes to the health sector, for better prevention and for increased treatment capacity. So it was about what's fair taxation. Today, according to the national budget, there are 30 billion dollars in tax subsidies for housing and cabins, and it is clear that it gives the most benefit to those who have the most. The centre party wants flats of the usual standard and standard size to be tax-free, and we hope that we will immediately get a tax system that ensures that. In the case of dividend dividends, Øystein Djupedal read out some figures. Clearly, the tax exemption gives the greatest benefit to those who have the most. I believe that the tax advantage for paid kindergartens – when the Ministry of Finance has managed to figure out how much it might be – is going to be very much lower in the list of injustices in terms of taxation. That benefit only lasts a few years for most people. The centre party is pleased that larger gifts of money to non-governmental organisations are now becoming tax-free. An increase of NOK 6000 is positive, and I expect the doubling in the next budget to be followed up. Today's limit is only 10 million. kr in gifts. I was surprised to see the list of the 44 organisations that per. Today, value has been found to receive such gifts. It was a very narrow part of the volunteer organizations. I guess many more will now apply for approval. The Central Party wants people to be able to give gifts for local purposes and get tax benefits for it. We therefore want the organisations of e.g. corps, museums and sports teams shall be included. We believe that social benefits are to be rewarded with tax exemptions, and propose that schemes cover all non-profit and non-commercial non-profit organisations. The centre party also wishes to support teams and associations by other means through the tax and tax system. We propose that small jobs with revenues of up to NOK 30000 in non-governmental organisations be exempt from tax and tax, as well as that non-governmental organisations from the next year be given a zero rate in the VAT system. VAT compensation for officials seems to be too big a bureaucratic system. We fear that grants through that scheme will not reach the extremes of the organisations, and we are afraid that the reimbursement will be a balancing item in the budget. The government proposes both improvements and tightening of the forest tax system. The centre party believes that it is wrong to remove the degression in the tax sharing rate, which helps to make the scheme more targeted. We want forest tax resources to continue to be used for investment in forest roads. The seafarer's and fisherman's deduction has remained unchanged at NOK 70 000 since it was introduced. The inflation adjustment should now have been NOK 125 000. The Central Party proposes an increase of NOK 100000, NOK 20 000 more than what the Government proposes. It is strange that the many beautiful words about the importance of shipping do not give rise to more support for such a proposal, which contributes to better conditions until a possible net pay system for seafarers is in place. The centre party opposes the amendments to the law on small boats, such as: make registration voluntary and facilitate subsequent privatisation. It's strange that the privatizer has gained such power. Ninety million. kr has been used and can now prove to be discarded. The evaluation shows that social benefits are good. The Swedish Maritime Directorate, Royal Copenhagen Norsk Båtförbund and the Finanznuternbegandet seem to suggest that we continue with the scheme. Finally, I just want to mention that the Center Party wants to introduce zero VAT for NRK public broadcasting. That'll be 200 million. kr more in income per year. We avoid a reimbursement mechanism that could become a balancing item in the budgetary procedure in such cases as those we are experiencing right now, where the rule of action becomes too tight and where the Minister of Finance and others are looking for cutting opportunities. Then I'd like to include the proposal of the Center Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e286	The representative Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e289	With this draft budget, the government has shown that it is possible to combine important welfare measures with lower taxes and taxes. In addition to strengthening efforts to help the poor both outdoors and at home, for care, public transport, environmentally friendly energy research, education and voluntary organisations, taxes and charges for individuals and businesses are reduced by DKK 10.8 billion. In addition, there will be the ease of the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. It is important for the Left that the Government with this soundness ensures that the budget has been given a good environmental profile, a good social profile and better conditions for business. Substantial tax reliefs benefit both individuals and businesses. I want to point out some of these changes in my article. In a situation where there is a strong dollar and interest rates higher than in the countries where our business competes, we see a trend where more jobs can be lost than new ones are created. Innovation requires creative interaction between educational institutions, the research community, enterprises and investors. Modern industrial travel is building such a good innovation and knowledge environment that can be decisive for enterprises to stay in Norway and for more localisation here. The left, therefore, will aim to develop systems that look at knowledge and competence in circulation. Extending the tax relief scheme for business research to cover all enterprises is an important step in stimulating small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in development and new and forward-looking jobs. The left has been fighting for years to eliminate the investment tax. In the budgetary negotiations with the government of Stoltenberg, we finally closed. It was claimed that the price was $1 billion per person. storage representative from the Left. Now, when you're implementing it, you might say that the price has increased to 3 billion per. Depositary representative. For many companies the removal of this charge will lead to increased efforts in the use of new and forward-looking technologies. This will also lead to a reduction in work effort in an enormous form field — in other words, an important step in making Norway simpler. In the budget agreement with the Progress Party, the depreciation rates for machines are also increased from 15 to 20 pst. For our competitive industry, this is a significant contribution to replacing machines and equipment that will enable us to use new technologies and make them more competitive. An estimated 1 million low-income taxpayers are reduced in marginal and average taxes by increasing the rate of the minimum deduction. An active organisational life and a high level of volunteering is a commitment to a living democracy and a local community with strong social networks. Left wants public support schemes to support their freedom to be independent. Nobody gets as much activity out of each krone as volunteer Norway, where most of the work is voluntary and unprofitable. If we are to have a rich organisational life, it is important that the organisations secure income. Both individuals and businesses are thus important contributors. Increasing the deduction of donations to voluntary organisations to NOK 6000 will contribute to the ability of voluntary teams and organisations to generate substantial revenues. It may be tempting to point out several of the proposals from the Labour Party which, in the view of the Left, will cause great disadvantages to our competitively exposed industry, and not to give the innovation needed to give us jobs in the future, but I will refrain from the temptation. I still have a comment when it comes to the small boat register. For the left, it's a pleasure that someone finally manages to terminate this little boat register, which, in our view, has little meaning. And the 80 million that one has spent on this is money that the left could have thought of spending on a lot of other good measures. Finally, the changes that will be made today will, in the view of the Left, be a good thing for both individuals and job security.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e317	We are currently discussing the suspension of the 2003 tax and tax package. On the part of the Coastal Party, we have been committed to maintaining the districts and maintaining the coast. Without good territory, we don't get good cities. It's not just useful to think about city and city. We must also bear in mind that we must have a tax system that requires that the districts are able to survive and continue to provide the cities with good labour and opportunities. Our The alternative budget and our tax arrangements bear the mark of it. It shouldn't be new for this assembly that we're concerned about exactly these things. Nor should it be new to the Financial Committee that we are concerned about these things. That shouldn't be new to the president either. Therefore, I do not want to spend more time, just bring up the proposals that we have made on our own in the Financial Committee and with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e330	The representative of Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e333	When it comes to the presentation of the whole of the government's tax proposal, I'm just going to refer to the big debate on the state budget yesterday and limit myself to a few or three brief comments. In general, on the debate on dividend taxes and comparisons with other countries, I would like to add that this type of comparison is very often, I would say most often, limp, because it compares percentages with very different tax bases. That's one point. The second is that to look at the taxation of limited liability companies, more elements should be brought in than just dividend taxes. Tax on profits, taxes on turnover or earnings on shares are at least elements that must be included in an assessment of total tax on shares when comparing from country to country. In the committee setting, the Government agrees with the change in the rule on tax deductions for research and development costs, so that this now covers all enterprises. A minority, the members of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, ask the Government to make proposals in the context of the revised 2003 national budget to increase the percentage to 25 pst. The Government cannot do so because it is contrary to the EEA Agreement. This is very clear from the statement we sent to Stortinget. The previous decision, for the current year, set the percentage at 18. As this was to be notified through the EEA Agreement, in the interests of the rules applicable to distortions of competition, state aid rules, in the EU, we had to set the rate at 18 pst. - So not 25 pst. There is every reason to believe that the same rules apply to this scheme, which is only an extension of the scheme for the current year. Finally, a majority in the UK wants to ensure tax exemption for the employer’s coverage of childcare facilities for employees’ children, and proposes to amend the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-15 of the Tax Act. This requires follow-up, for example: based on a need to prescribe this. I refer to what Mr Sanner said in yesterday's debate on the follow-up to this, both the relationship with the regulations and the budget regulations of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e349	Ministry of Finance writes in St.meld. No 1, the 2003 national budget, as follows: «At the same time, the split model has been changed several times after 1992, mainly in a modest direction. The result is that both the motives and the possibilities for adjusting to the sharing model have increased, by getting what is actually the return on labour to be taxed as capital income. It is socio-economically unfortunate if large resources are used for adaptations whose main purpose is to save taxes. It also leads to a tax discrimination of high return on labour, inter alia, depending on whether or not each person operates such a tax adjustment, and to weaken actual income balancing through the tax system.» We in the Workers' Party have received a lot of criticism from the Government for the proposals to close the tax loopholes that we have promoted in the vote. Other examples, in addition to proposals for tightening the sharing model, are the removal of discounts on unlisted shares and the taxation of options in employment. Does the Minister of Finance think that eroding the tax system is the best way to pursue industrial policy, rather than focusing on research and industrial development? Furthermore, I have another question for the Minister of Finance, and it concerns the treatment of the Skauge Committee's suspension. The Committee on Finance is unanimous in its view that the Committee on Budgets should be set up in its entirety and as a matter of its own motion for a resolution. What progress does the Minister of Finance see in the consideration of the position of the Skauge Committee in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e363	The Skauge Committee delivers its settings around the turn of the year. We will follow up with a big message after prior consultation, and then there are rules on time in relation to consultation that will be followed. Many people are going to comment on the matter, and I think there is a reason to focus on it. A leading question was asked whether I think eroding the tax system is an appropriate way to pursue industrial policy. The answer is obviously no. Who in the world could answer anything else in and separately? It is likely to be discussed whether the split model has gradually been appropriately adjusted. It's true, as we point out, that there have been some social costs in adapting to the divisional model. Now, as far as I recall, it was also the intention of those who were behind the tax reform in their time. I believe to remember very clearly that the case-rapporteur, formerly Mr Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen of the Workers' Party, opened the debate here in Stortinget by saying that those who would not like to be affected by the divisional model could only adapt. There have been very many thousands of businessmen since then. How appropriate it is then to change the sharing model just before evaluating it in connection with the configuration of the Skage Committee, I think you might be even more in doubt about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e372	I noted that the Minister of Finance referred to the opinions of Jan Tore Sanner in the Stortinget yesterday in his mention of the majority's proposals relating to tax relief in relation to kindergarten. It's not satisfying. I would like to hear how the Minister of Finance intends to implement the decision that Mr Odelstinget will take today. In the vote, it is clear both what the majority assumptions are and when the amendment is due to take effect. I understand that the Council of State needs reasonable time for regulatory work, but I would like the Council of State to now explain the progress he intends to keep in the matter. I would also like to know whether the Council of State has clearly understood what is the intention of the majority of the population in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e379	After listening to the debate for two days, I realized that this was a significant tax relief that was not covered in the budget in line with the first paragraph of Section 4 of the Financial Regulation. As regards the timing of this follow-up, I will follow the rules applicable to sending regulations to the hearing. In addition to that, I cannot provide a date-by-date progress plan, but I will return to it after the hearing has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e387	I notice that every time there is talk of dividend taxation, the Council of State does not like international comparison, which he otherwise very much likes himself in any other fiscal context. He would like to point out that Sweden has a considerable tax burden – they already have a tax burden of about 10 %. 10 pst. more than Norwegian. What is unreasonable about the absence of tax on dividends is, of course, that labour is taxed so much harder. In fact, a normal Norwegian worker is taxed harder. In addition, there is a double taxation of an employer’s contribution. This means that labour is a much harder tax item than capital. This is, of course, the great unfairness of our tax system, which is the great unfairness of the 1992 tax reform. And so do we. The dividend has exploded, and this is, of course, because it is a tax-free benefit to the taxpayer, while the company has paid 28 pst. tax. If you look at the table prepared by the Ministry of Finance for SV, it is very difficult to understand how it is possible from a justifiable point of view to imagine that the 226 richest people in Norway, with more than 20 million income. kr, shall have a value of more than 21 million. kr in tax-free dividend dividends. There are no reasonable grounds for doing so, nor is there any guarantee that what has been mantradled by the Government that this is being reinvested in the Norwegian industry is keeping pace. This money can in principle be used for exactly what you want, and we also see that the people of the country do – they spend it for exactly what they want. A little is of course invested back, and something is used for quite different things, for housing, pictures, jewelry or vacation trips. It must be completely free of charge. I'm not going to put myself into the moral part of this. What is my point is this: why is it not reasonable that we do like the Americans or the Germans or the English, or like Sweden or Finland? Finland is now considering introducing tax on shares, as the only country in addition to Norway which does not. Many tax systems are different, but this is equal. In fact, it is an unreasonable thing for labour, workers, to be taxed far more heavily than coupon cutters, and I hope that the Minister of Finance will gradually understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e398	There is no reason to believe that I will at any time get into SV's way of thinking about business taxation. The comparison with other countries I'm going to come back to, I like to discuss it very much. With regard to the Skauge Committee, for which the Storting decision is to be taken, it is part of the mandate to propose a competitive tax system, and then the comparison with other countries is, of course, a premise. Moreover, it is wrong that all other countries have similar arrangements. In fact, all other countries have very different schemes for the taxation of capital. Dividends on Norwegian shares are not tax-free. It is taxed on the holding’s hand, under a reimbursement scheme, by 28 pst. One can discuss whether it is too high or too low, but it has been the rate that has been in place since the tax reform in 1992. When owners choose to take values from the company, it is their own choice. They also reduce the value of their investment. It's free for the individual to do it. Figures from several years in the 1990s show that reinvested values are higher than the values taken, and we should be pleased about that. It would have been nice if it still had into this year. However, statistics suggest that, in line with the fall of the stock exchange, reinvestments also fall on the business side.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e409	I do not accept the arrogant and discouraging way in which the Council of State answers concrete questions asked him in this debate. I expect to get an answer, so I'm going to ask the question one more time: Has the Council understood the intentions of the kindergarten contract and what the assumptions for it are, including in the case of tax exemptions? Or is it such that there is doubt as to how the Council of State deals with this? I just want to remind you that decisions on the agreement were taken at Stortinget in June. The fact that the government has chosen not to follow up this point in the kindergarten agreement through the budget is to the extent that the government's problem. But the majority of population assumptions are fixed, and these follow the majority of population up through treatment today. Then there's an advantage if the government is in the same reality as the bulk of the population. That's why I repeat my question: Should the government follow the intentions of the majority of the population, or do they intend to do something else? In the case of proceeds: not just one question has been sent to the Ministry of Finance about the possible proceeds. It's been sent more. The answers received from the Ministry of Finance on the occasion of the case have significant deviations. In other words, it has been difficult for the Financial Committee to estimate what will be the progeny consequences of this, since the Ministry itself is not close to being precise about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e418	Nor do I accept personal characteristics as to the way to respond. I can clearly tell you about that now. I have replied that the Government will follow up in line with the budget agreement – I have to add: in line with the budget regulations and in line with the rules on how regulations are to be sent to the hearing. The first paragraph of Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation states: «The budget shall comprise all government expenditure and revenue in the budgetary reserve, as far as they can be foreseen when the budget is finally adopted.» In my opinion, the proceeds that have been allocated to questions from the Committee are within the framework of which it is possible to relate. We'll get back to that. What time will we be able to say something more about the end of the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e432	Let me just finish the previous line exchange first. I probably don't have the hope that Per-Kristian Foss, or the Minister of Finance, will ever be concerned with a fair tax system. I think that train has gone the longest. My hope is that there will be a large number of people who actually realize that introducing tax on dividends is a reasonable form of taxation of large revenues, which should be taxed favourably and taxed in all comparable neighbouring countries. It will make it possible to create a fairer tax system, in order to free up capital for other important welfare tasks, not least to raise those at the bottom of the table. All possible statistics, equation statistics and other statistics show that differences in Norwegian society are increasing. The single reason why the differences explode, and did so throughout the 1990s, are tax-free share gains. That you're hiding behind 28 pst. taxes paid by the enterprise are quite reasonable. Everyone pays 28 pst. The tax collectors also pay 28 pst. On top of this comes top taxes and social security contributions. In addition, the labour force is also taxed by the employer through the employer’s contribution. So if you're talking about double taxation, work is quadrupled taxed in relation to share gains, which are taxed once. So to the nursery agreement that the majority has concluded. The Davay State Council took a sensible approach to this in yesterday's debate. I realized to the Council of State that she has now put down her weapons, that she is now in dialogue with the majority of the big parties. I also encourage the Council of State Foss to do that. The way he approaches this question in today's nodelsting, is a very unwise way, and so Foss has approached this all the time. Odelstinget and the majority of the population insist that this should be carried out in line with the wishes of the majority. Of course, we respect the fact that this has to be done in a consultation round, and regulatory work has to be done. That means you have to have a short deadline. We have asked to get the matter to Stortinget in mid-March, and this should be the deadline that Per-Kristian Foss also sets for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e443	I do not know how appropriate it is to extend the debate on a fair tax system. I just want to show that this government has changed the tax rates, with the emphasis on actually increasing the base and minimum deduction over the two years we have proposed changes in the tax system. It's a contribution. So you'll see what the Skauge Committee makes of proposals that can contribute to the perception of more justice. I am not quite sure if the representative Djupedal and I agree myself after this. Another factor that needs to be taken into account is that in a global international economy in which capital moves easily, at least there must be competitive conditions for investment in Norway. Then I think that the property tax is going to be a key element of that assessment. With regard to the question of the follow-up to the Kindergarten Decision, I have become accustomed to the kind of opinions that the representative, Djupedal, makes here. I would like to deal with the allocation regulations, which require that decisions are also accompanied by money. Whether it's arrogant or not can be discussed. At any rate, it is appropriate to deal with the Storting's own rules for the management of budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e455	The party to the progress is associated with the changes proposed in VAT legislation. However, I have some comments on some of the proposals. In the hearing during the examination of Document No: The 8th proposal to include NRK in the VAT system expressed the intention of the NRK to be able to compete with parts of its business, thus enabling it to operate more efficiently and fairly and to save money in a difficult economic situation. This would apply to external services as well as programme production. The Progress Party saw this, in addition to the necessary cuts, as the best way to solve the financial problems of institutions and provided that the broadcasting fee should not be increased. When the government is still proposing to increase the broadcasting fee, we will move towards this increase. We believe that the ceiling has been reached for how much people have to pay for an imposed television channel, which sends basically the same type of programs as all the other channels that we don't pay for. The fact that the Government is following up on the growth rate and is proposing non-discrimination of electricity with other alternative energy sources in our three northernmost counties is also gratifying. The same applies to VAT on what is called alternative medicine. Here, it's created so random and anti-competitive boundaries that it's high time it was cleaned up. With regard to the proposal for the discharge of the registration obligation in the small boat register, it is true that the propulsion party has been opposed to such a mandatory register from the time it was proposed. We are pleased that the Government now believes the same thing. A voluntary register, e.g. managed by the insurance industry, where the industry itself places registration as a condition for having the boat insured, will be able to take care of most interests in this matter. One important point for the Progress Party is that such a voluntary register will not be suitable for the levying of any fee on small boats. A mandatory register, which does not allow the levy to be levied, requires only a legislative amendment in order for the levy to be levied. We don't want to take that chance. That is why the Progress Party will support the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e470	There has been a lot of talk about the proposal of gifts to voluntary organisations, both yesterday and today, and some have made it appear that we who are opposed to this proposal are thus against increasing revenues for organisations. Of course, that's not right. SV sees that extending the tax deduction limit for gifts to voluntary organisations could contribute to increasing revenue for these. But there is a kind of public funding for voluntary organisations that – so far – have had no scope in this country. In addition to regular government budget support, organisations with such a scheme will receive indirect support through tax deductions to individuals and businesses that are willing to support the organisation. There will therefore no longer be political priorities which determine the level of public support to the various organisations. Instead, it is the organisations that are well-willed among the most prosperous, who win the battle for public crowns. We believe that the level of public support should be determined by political decisions. The decision SV made in ours to change the key was such a decision. We record that the government party chose to go against it. Changing the key meant significantly strengthening the organisation's economy. In the case of industrial research, SV has chosen to propose to reintroduce the original FUNN scheme rather than a tax incentive scheme. The scheme was very successful the poor hour it got to work, while we see that the tax system wears out. It has taken time to get her approved, and in some states few applications for the scheme have been notified. We are also afraid that companies will become more concerned about what project they can start to get tax deductions, rather than focusing on the research itself. A take-off scheme will be more accurate in relation to the priority range of research. The incentive scheme also worked much better than the tax incentive scheme because it reaches the companies that do not have a liquidity to enter into long-term research projects. A relatively long time goes from investing in R & D to getting a positive cash flow back. SV has therefore chosen to redeploy the funds proposed by the Government to a tax FUNN scheme, to a back-up scheme, as well as to spend the money on research and development contracts and SND. So finally, a few words about the small boat register – a strange case – that the government party would formerly wind up and now will launch and introduce as a voluntary scheme, in spite of calls from all sides to continue with what is today a successful system. Royal Copenhagen Norwegian Boat Federation has recently sent out a press release that I would like to quote from: ‘After use approx. 100 million kroner on the establishment of the central small boat register, the Swedish Federation of Boats believes that it is scandalous that the government is now proposing to make the register optional and to suspend its operation. The small-boat register has proved that it is now operated cost-effectively and can show very positive results, inter alia, in preventing crime at sea.’ We can try to learn from those who have done this before us. The progress party called Sweden in the case of net pay, and Sweden has tried to register as a voluntary scheme. So far the register covers only 20 pst. by the small boat fleet, it will not be properly maintained, and it has lost its worth. The register that we have has proved to be useful to the police, as the investigation of theft, damage works and pro-mille running has been much more effective. The main rescue centre reports that the registry contributed to the failure to launch or rapidly decommission search operations, which means that one has large savings in the economy. We can't see that this is the only argument for the government proposal. We have not heard so much enthusiastic arguments in this debate either, and we can still encourage the government party and the Progress Party to join the proposal of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e494	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over. [[Food, see page 136]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e510	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and after the speeches by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e521	The Law on Debt Schemes — or the Law of 17 July 1992 on Voluntary Debt Schemes for Private Persons — is under review. It entered into force on 1 January 1993. This was a period when very many in this country were in a debt crisis, many because they had lost their work and thus the basis for bearing the financial obligations they had incurred and based on their ability to cope. In addition, we had a great impairment in fixed property, which led to many having large loans, even though the property was sold. With regard to the debtor, the creditors and society as a whole, there was a clear need for a public consultation device that could help the individual to clean up the economic situation — or chaos — that had arisen, and there was also a need for a legal framework for debt regulation. The objective of the Law is precisely to allow individuals with serious debt problems to gain control of their finances. It shall also ensure that the debtor discharges his obligations as far as possible, while at the same time ensuring an orderly and fair distribution between the creditors of the funds held by the debtor. It is worth stressing that there are several parties that are to be considered as fair as possible. In other words, these concerns need to be balanced, while at the same time general social and judicial views must be taken into account. The Debt Scheme Institute must not become a system of speculative reorganization of debt. I thought there was a reason to introduce it, so that there is no doubt about it, while for my part I do not see that neither the current legislation nor the proposed revision in any way open up such speculative reorganisation. There is a high threshold for getting a debt arrangement. On the contrary, the Ministry’s evaluation – and during the proceedings here, conversations and input from municipal case handlers, the Debt Victim Alliance and many individuals who have been tried out in practice – has shown that a safe softening of this can promise something to improve the debtor’s ability to deal with a chaotic economic situation. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the possibilities of obtaining a debt arrangement, improving the living conditions of the debt arrangement, the time frame for the period of the debt arrangement, and the possibility of once completing the debt arrangement without an additional five years of post-employment with possible requirements pending above. The provisions of the Law on Indebtedness have remained unchanged since its entry into force in January 1993 unless otherwise provided. Following a review and evaluation of the laws, the Ministry concludes that the Debt Scheme Institute has largely functioned well. However, it is pointed out that it has different practices and that there is a need for changes that clarify some key legislative elements and that there is a need for greater flexibility in relation to public creditors and greater clarity in areas that are currently not regulated. This is the basis for the Government's legislative amendment proposal. In addition, there are relative procedural changes to shorten the length of proceedings, including a significant extension of the competence of the authorising officer, both in the context of the opening of debt negotiations and in matters relating to the change of the debt regime. The Committee agrees that changes are being made to these objectives. But in many areas, a number in the Committee have made changes that, in my view, are major improvements. It's actually the government party is also involved in any of this. In the following, I shall limit myself to mentioning these areas, at least most of them. Both the Government and the members of the Committee are quite clearly aware that a person who has been given a debt regime can be given social assistance and that there is no need to be any doubt about it. Many hearing bodies believe for the same reason that there is a need for a provision of the debt regime law that makes it clear that the debt regime does not prevent economic social assistance. The Committee's multiplicity agrees, and the majority follow up with proposals to this effect. Paragraphs 1 to 4 mention some aspects that prevent the opening of debt negotiations, including: the noise criterion. It is considered to be a security valve for those cases where the debt negotiation or the debt regime should not come about due to critical relationships related to the seeker or the proposed debt regime being promoted. Should respect for, and trust in, the debt regime institution be there, and should ensure that the institution is not abused, there is a desperate need for a noise assessment according to the given criterion. Public debt is specifically treated under the current law and is an obstacle to the functioning of the debt regime. A person may be denied a debt arrangement if more than 60 pst. of the liabilities are tax and tax claims. The government is proposing to revoke this rule. The Ministry then also pointed out in the bill that one of the main aims of the law review is to make it easier to arrive at a system of public creditors. However, this objective can be called into question to the greatest extent when, during the noise assessment, it is said that there can be no opening of debt negotiations if ‘a significant proportion of the debtor’s total debt is tax debt and whether the debtor can be blamed for its relationship’. The rule might look fine in isolation, but in conjunction with the pre-processed, he won't. In the proposition it is called: ‘The Ministry assumes that the considerations behind the rule’ – i.e. 60 pst. the rule – ‘can be ensured in a safe manner through clarification of the constancy criterion’. In addition, the notes on the individual notes are as follows: ‘The rule will therefore require special caution to allow the opening of debt negotiations where tax claims amount to 60 % or more of the total debt. ‘... I record that this is perceived by many as one opening the door wide open with one hand, and then closing it, at least almost with the other. There is therefore an important clarification in the majority of committees by pointing out that the repeal of the 60 pst rule means that a person should no longer take this as his starting point, but that there should be an assessment on a freer basis. I understand and sympathise with the minority who want to remove this rule in noise criteria, that ‘a significant proportion’ of tax debts are to prevent indebtedness. But when the Labour Party chose to leave him alone, it was assumed that the rule says that this applies to matters for which the debtor can be blamed. Then you get a rather correct search light on what is clumsy. It must be quite clear that the deliberate avoidance of taxes or attempts at them is so reprehensible that there can be no indebtedness. It also clarifies the entire committee, but at the same time they say that they are not some of the reasons why it is difficult to provide self-announcement in all situations. The debtor may in some cases have been in such a difficult situation that he or she has not received the self-message. The entire committee proposes an amendment on the possibility of obtaining more than once indebtedness. This proposal goes beyond the Government's proposal to open up such opportunities, even though the government party, which is in favour of the proposal, in its comment, quite rightly adheres to the Government's arrangements. The majority clearly states that the Government's proposal gives too strict a constraint and believes that such conditions should not be limited to specially calculated cases. The rise in unemployment increases the risk of new debt crises. We got an overview, in response from the Ministry of Finance in the context of the budgetary procedure, showing that very many people now have a large gross debt as part of disposable income. Many former debt victims who have completed their debt regime may have settled with high loan debts, as they obviously had to start on a barbed hill. A debt regime will in some cases be the best solution for creditors, debtors and society. The government must therefore follow developments in the future and, if necessary, come back with proposals for further clarification of the general rule that a debt regime can only be provided once, if necessary. In the case of debt, the Committee emphasises, among other things, that the debt is subject to the death penalty for the debtor in a debt arrangement. that special attention must be paid to children and their potential for activities and normal life outcomes, school trips, confirmation, etc., and that debtors who have rights of access to their children have the financial opportunity to follow up this right. A number also suggest that it should be incorporated into guide rates that no debtor should have less to live on than 85 pst. of the minimum pension. In dealing with different claims under the debt regime, the majority of the committees propose to equate tax claims with those of other creditors. The Committee also proposes that a change of treatment of fines and obligations based on the fact that they have been harmed by criminal offences be coordinated. In addition, there are several ways of keeping smaller liabilities out of the debt regime. The Committee endorses the proposal that, by 1 June next year, the Government should make proposals for legal provisions allowing public creditors to accept proposals for voluntary debt regimes. The majority also suggests that the duration of the debt regime should apply from the opening of the debt negotiations. It is such that the burden placed on the debtor starts already at the time of opening the debt negotiations, and when these take a long time, the debtor actually gets a longer period of debt if the period is not calculated from the time of opening. The government is proposing to continue the scheme with a five-year extension. If the debtor receives large gifts or gains during this period, creditors may be given their share even if the arrangement is terminated. This proposal highlights strong reactions. Yes, the department has strong arguments against the five-year rule, but they still conclude by keeping it. I have to say that this proposition calls for internal disunity in the government and between departments in so many areas. I get a sense that the Minister for Children and Family has been overrun more than once. The Ministry points out that such a post-crisis period is no other country, and that there is little left of the very intention with the promise and the possibility of a start with a first five years of debt and then another five years of post-crisis. The post-period creates social insecurity. Many people find it uncertain whether the value added of housing and paychecks should be taken into account. And perhaps the most: the decision can legally be circumvented by using the rules on private seizure bans, the right to renounce or renounce inheritance, etc. Anyone who knows the law or has access to legal assistance can thus avoid becoming a frame. This seems socially unfair. The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party will remove this post-period. Unfortunately, there will not be a majority for that, but we will subsidize the proposal of the Progress Party to reduce the post-post-period to two years. Then at least there is a monthly improvement. Finally, I would like to stress the responsibility of the consumer when it comes to assessing the borrower's ability to bet debts, and therefore we are also proposing that financial agreements should apply in this area. In the end, I take up the proposal Worker's party is on with SV, the Center Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e584	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e587	The Debt Regulation has largely worked well in the near ten years it has worked. In some areas, however, improvements are needed, in particular because differences have been identified in the practice of key legal provisions. It is unfortunate that the practice of the law can lead to discrimination, which contributes to undermining legitimacy. In many of the areas, there is a unanimous committee behind the proposals, and most of them have been explained by the rapporteur. I would therefore like to focus on those points where there is disagreement. The majority, all but the government parties, ask the Government to incorporate indicative rates of maintenance expenditure, equal to 85 pst. of the minimum pension. As with social assistance, government parties believe that a specific case-by-case assessment should be made. Indicative rates tend to become standard and therefore do not take into account the specific needs of the individual. The majority will further equate tax and tax requirements with other requirements. The Government agrees with the Government that these requirements stand in a special position, as the government cannot carry out any credit rating, and they cannot prevent the occurrence of any other debt, which private creditors can. The Government has proposed to continue the current regime that the debt regime can be set aside within five years if the debtor receives a significant amount, but clarifying that the increase in the value of the dwelling should not lead to the cancellation of the debt regime. The majority, i.e. the Government Parties and the Advance Party, agree that there should be an extension, but disagree on the length. The party of progress is going in for two years, while the parties of government are going in for five years, which is now. The reason why we believe it should be an after-care period is that it may seem unreasonable to the creditors if the debtor receives, shortly after a debt arrangement, a substantial inheritance, gift or gain. I understand that debtors can feel that they will never be done with the debt regime, and that it can be difficult to move on. However, it should be borne in mind that a debt regime does not fully meet its requirements, that is, loses money. It may seem unreasonable to them not to be able to meet their demands if the debtor’s economy changes completely. It may not occur very often, but there is a safety valve in exceptional cases where the values are significant. The minority claims that this post-secondary period will be particularly socially out of place, for example. because the debtor may give up or give up inheritance. Whether you're rich or poor, you won't be able to enjoy the inheritance if you give up it, so I don't fully understand where the unsocial lies in this. Neither shall the Government parties be given a majority in favour of its proposal for a five-year post-period. We therefore also want to vote subsidiaryly in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party and ask that the vote be put to the vote so that we can be allowed to do so, and I assume that this will eventually be a unanimous decision by the Stortinget. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the government parties are behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e608	Heidi Larssen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e611	The Debt Regulation Act has worked for ten years, and it is commendable that it has now been reviewed how the law has worked. That might be something you should do with other legislation at regular intervals. In particular, the government has found that central legal provisions are applied differently in different courts and that the length of proceedings is unacceptable in some cases. The Progress Party supports most of the Government's proposals, but also supports several proposals that the Government has not promoted, and some embellishments in relation to what the Government has proposed. The main proposals of the Government are to enable the public authorities to open up debt negotiations and to provide guidance on how to understand the rules in the legislative text, the proposal and the position of the Financial Committee. Together, this will, hopefully, lead to shorter processing times, a reduction in the amount of work done by the courts and a more consistent and thus fairer practice of the rules. Following the Government's proposal, it shall no longer be such that a debtor is prevented from obtaining a debt arrangement if the tax liability exceeds 60 pst. of the total debt. In the proposition, however, it has been said in such a way that there is a great danger that those who are going to practise the law will just assume this so-called 60 pst. rule. I would like to stress, like a majority of the Committee on Finance, that this 60 pst rule will no longer apply. The rule adopted today is that it is crucial whether the tax liability is significant in relation to the total debt. The Progress Party considers that public tax requirements should not be placed in a position other than those of other requirements in the case of debt regimes. The situation which has arisen in the case of debt regimes does not imply that public requirements are dealt with in a specific way, even if such special treatment may be applicable in other contexts. The government argues that the government does not choose its debtors and that what has triggered the tax charge, for example: employee income, has also created a concrete ability to pay. In my opinion, this cannot be decisive when dealing with debtors who are in serious economic difficulties. Moreover, it is not the case that debtors automatically get rid of all tax debts. We are therefore in favour of the principle of equalisation of tax liabilities with general liabilities, such as: loan debt. The Progress Party also agrees with the proposal that more than once a debt regime can be achieved. However, the government's proposal for such an opening is very urgent. A joint committee has advocated a legal text that provides more discretionary access to this, but the reasons of the government parties are almost identical to those of the Government. From our point of view, we are in favour of access being formulated in general, but rather, so that you can capture cases where there are good, real reasons why the second time indebtedness regime can be achieved. Under the rules in force, debtors of a debt regime shall retain funds for the maintenance of themselves and their families. We agree that in this context family should also include cohabitants, and are behind a comment in the committee setting that 85 pst. the minimum amount of the pension should be the minimum amount to be retained by the debtor for the purpose of living. And it should be incorporated as soon as possible into circulars together with rates for debtors who support others. We agree with a unanimous committee on how to deal with claims arising from criminal offences. I'm not saying any more about it. The government indicated in the consultation round that smaller requirements could be excluded from a debt regime. This was supported both by the Ministry of Labour and Administration and by the Ministry of Finance. However, the Ministry of Children and the Family did not put forward the proposal in the proposal, having regard to, inter alia, opinions of the Ministry of Justice. Nevertheless, when we present the proposal, it is because I believe that this makes the debt instrument more flexible. The Committee supports the proposal on rules for the duration of the period of indebtedness. The Progress Party is also behind a proposal to legislate on the timing of the start of the debt regime, as it is a question of negotiation today. I have hurt to see that a debtor has some negotiating position when it comes to determining the starting time, and I therefore agree with the Ministry of Children and the Family that leaving this to free negotiations can be arbitrary and arbitrary discrimination. The period of the debt regime should therefore start when the debt negotiation is opened, whether it is voluntary or compulsory indebtedness. A debt regime may change if the debtor’s economy improves during the period of the debt arrangement. Of course, in such cases the debtor should inform creditors of improvements. We therefore support the proposal to legislate on such information obligations. We also propose setting a deadline of one month to provide such information. There may be no significant burden on the debtor, nor shall there be any increase in the value of the dwelling. I think it is reasonable and, to the extent natural, that creditors should be able to feel confident that they are aware that the assumptions for the debt regime may have changed. The so-called post-period is also justified, inter alia. with regard to creditors. Once they have reduced their claims against the debtor, it is reasonable that they may be covered by funds that the debtor receives more or less by chance after the period of the debt arrangement has elapsed. From the point of view of a creditor, a sudden, large increase in wealth could not be reasonable once the debtor has just been released from a number of obligations. However, I see that a long post-crime period can be unnecessarily burdensome for the debtor and the debtor's family and also create uncertainty about the future economy. In addition, the debt regime must be a new starting point for the debtor. The post-period covers only more random income, and we have therefore found that a two-year extension period is appropriate and will propose it. The new rule should apply to new debt regimes, but also to ensure that existing debt regimes do not have an after-market period of more than two years from the entry into force of the amending law. Finally, over a period of time, the Progress Party has been concerned that the growth of credit among consumers in fact implies that it is somehow necessary to provide an overview of the total indebtedness of individuals. This is a topic that creates significant debate, not least because there are many good reasons to oppose a type of central debt register, not least for privacy reasons. At the same time, we see that by not having too many instruments to use today to clarify what is the total debt of individuals when applying for a new admission, we have unfortunately seen enough examples of this creating too strong a credit growth, a credit growth that many cannot serve when it comes to the problem. Then, at last, it becomes a social problem. That is why we have put forward proposals to clarify these issues. So we haven't taken a final position, simply because we see that there are many balances that need to be taken into account in such a discussion. But we think that the scale is now increasing dramatically, the problems are increasing, and therefore there is an area where the government should look at. We do not get a majority in favour of this, but in conclusion, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party either alone or with others in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e643	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e646	The case spokesperson has done well for the main elements of the case, so I'm going to take a few points that SV has been particularly busy about. In fact, several of the changes we are making today are similar to those proposed by SV when the laws were adopted ten years ago. Unfortunately, we didn't get multiples then, but at least it's nice that we get multiples for some of these things today. So the aim of the laws is to allow individuals with serious debt problems to gain control of their economy. It's going to be easier to get rid of their debt problems, and we also guarantee debt from a worthy existence while they pay off their debt. The government proposes as one of the points to remove the so-called 60 pst. rule, and a collective committee agrees with the Government that tax debts should be equalised to other liabilities when it comes to the requirements to be covered by the debt regime. But SV therefore believes that the consequence of this must be that a non-specialised tax liability in relation to other liabilities arises when issues of opening up debt negotiations arise. In this case, in accordance with the general rule of § 1-4, debt negotiations may be refused. Furthermore, in certain cases, the rule would lead to a refusal to open the debt regime as a result of relationships with the debtor's tax liability. But the objective of the proposed amendment to the Debt Regulations has just been to make it easier for the debtor to arrive at an arrangement with public creditors. In many cases, large discretionary tax requirements have been a contributing cause for economic problems. Such a situation need not have a cause for cumbersome circumstances, which provide a basis for refusing a debt regime. Both health problems and the lack of skills can limit the individual’s ability to clean up an economic situation. Missing resources to obtain professional accounting help may also be a contributing factor in over-tax debt. SV therefore believes that the size of the tax debt should not be decisive for the debtor's potential for the debt regime, and would also stress that the debt regime could in any case be denied if there is a causal relationship with the debt. SV will therefore, during the reconciliation later today, go against Section 1-4, second paragraph, point (e). 70,000 young people live in poverty in this country. Therefore, we are very pleased that the bill addresses the issue of maintenance expenditure under the debt regime. The Committee also stresses that the children of the debtor should be entitled to recreational activities on the lines of other infants, the right to leave, the right to go to school, etc., and that the rates of retirement must therefore be set in such a way as to make this possible. We also say that debtors who have rights of access to children should have financial opportunities to follow up this right. A multiple, with SV included, will incorporate guide bets where no debtor should have less than 85 pst. of the minimum pension to live on. A minimum rate is a minimum rate, and I hope that the Council of State will set the guide rates in such a way that they can be understood as such, and not as the representative Heidi Larssen was afraid that such a guide rate would be understood as a maximum. The case spokesperson was also on the subject of five years post-period, and although I fully share his views on it, I will comment on this point. The bill clearly shows that the government has received a lot of input into removing the five-year extension period. The post-period has met with strong criticism from several sources, including: that there will be little left of the intention in the Debt Order Act for a new start, when a five-year period of indebtedness is first fixed, and then a five-year period comes, one of which may be reversed. The debtor will have a sense of never being finished with the problems, when he is going to set the finish line so far into the future. The discretionary nature of the caregivers also creates social security for the debtor and the family for a long time after the debt problems are overcome. It may be uncertain whether capital appreciation in housing, a larger increase in pay or similar conditions would result in the indebtedness of the debt regime. On the other hand, as we have also said, the debtor can circumvent the five-year rule relatively easily, and in a legal way. Anyone who knows the law or has access to legal assistance may avoid becoming the frame of the rule. It is therefore very likely that the five-year rule will affect the social disparity. SV is part of a minority that proposes the laws distant and, together with the Labour Party, will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Progress Party in a post-secondary period of two years. Finally, I shall comment on a proposal such as SV, the Central Party and the Coastal Party are behind 5.3 ‘Reduction of voluntary debt regime’. It must be an objective to avoid many victims of debt having their cases brought before the courts. It's a huge tax on people who are already in a difficult situation. That is why we believe it is important to encourage the adoption of voluntary debt arrangements. It's important that the creditors are a few in such a solution, but we see that voluntary debt arrangements today can be rejected by small creditors, and that they can do so without any further foundation. We want to remove the potential of a small minority of creditors in practice to veto a voluntary debt regime. We want the debt regime to be signed when it is approved by the creditors who together represent at least four-fifths of the requirements covered by the proposal. I would like to address that suggestion SV, together with several, has in its configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e665	Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e668	The purpose of the Debt Regulation is to enable individuals with serious debt problems to gain control of their finances while ensuring that the debtor discharges his obligations as far as possible. Getting into a serious debt situation can be a heavy human burden. It's not just about fixing the private economy. For some, it may be a matter of correcting the overall family and life situation. The Debt Code shall be an aid to enable the debtor to settle separately. It is also important that there be an orderly and fair distribution of the debtor's funds among the creditors. The Debt Regulations Act was adopted 10 years ago. It has largely worked well. But the purpose of the proposed changes to the law now is: to improve the law and provide clarity in areas that are not specified in today's laws to clarify some key legal provisions to make changes in order to shorten the procedure time. One of the main problems in the debt regime cases has been the significant differences in the practice of the culprits and in the courts. It is gratifying that the Government has obtained a majority for a number of proposed amendments to the law. On a number of points, the Committee concurs with the proposed amendments. I will address some of the points in the amendment proposal. Under the debt regime, the debtor of his income has the right to retain what is reasonably needed for the maintenance of himself and his household. This right is proposed to be strengthened by clarifying that, in the circumstances, cohabitants can also be depended on by the debtor under a debt arrangement. Access to extended residence rates for parents who are engaged in a relationship with their own children after divorce is also proposed by law. There is agreement in the Committee that a debt regime should normally last for five years, but there is disagreement as to the date from which a debt regime period should apply. The majority of the Committee agrees that a debt settlement period should be counted from the opening of the indebtedness negotiations. Government parties do not support this because it may lead to incentives to withdraw negotiations on time. The proposal proposes to tighten up the five-year rule so as to impose stricter requirements to derogate from the rule. Thus, more than in the past is needed to ensure that the debt regime will last for more than five years. It is important that a person who has a debt regime can receive social assistance. That is also the case in the Committee. However, where there is disagreement at this point, the location of a provision shall be determined. Government parties agree with the Ministry's assessments, which state that this is in principle best suited to the social service law. The majority of the Committee, all non-governmental parties, endorses a provision to this effect in the Debt Code and therefore proposes such a legal provision. The disagreement is not about the reality of the matter, but about where this is to be regulated. The Government proposes to continue the so-called post-term period, which means that the debt regime can be set aside in whole or in part within five years of the end of the period of the debt regime. The intention is that a breach of a debt regime may occur in exceptional cases where the debtor’s economy is completely changed by receiving a gain or an inheritance. The Government Parties support the continuation of the post-period. An after-sale is not an extension of the debt regime. Initially, you have completed your obligating payments that have been negotiated. One may retain employee income and property value added. For most people who have a debt arrangement, it will mean that the debtor has finished the case when the period of the debt arrangement is over. The government parties believe that it is not reasonable that a person who receives a large additional income should not pay shortly after the end of a case. We understand the desire and the need for a new start after a period of indebtedness. However, if a short time after the period of the debt arrangement is in a totally new economic situation, this will in many cases be not fair to the creditors who have surrendered debt. Our view is therefore justified in an overall assessment, where the consideration of both the debtor and the creditor is given weight. The parties to the Government support the Government’s proposal in the course of a five-year extension. But we will vote in a subsidiary way on the proposal for a two-year extension period, so that there is an overall committee behind the final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e703	The Debt Regulation Act was new in 1993, and a review and some changes are now necessary. I'm glad that those changes are for the debtor's benefit, that we now get changes that give more equal treatment, faster treatment, that changes make it easier to know what you're done with, and that you get rid of the preference for tax debt. I am pleased that many of the recordings that have come from them are the most relevant, among other things. via the Debt Sacrifice Alliance, will be followed. The centre party has placed great emphasis on the feeling of re-introduction of debt-causing liabilities that result in a debt regime. In that case, it is positive that the term of the debt regime should last for five years and be counted from the opening day of the negotiations. It is positive that, since a debt regime can be set aside if the debtor receives a significant amount, it is now set at two years instead of the previous five years. The centre party would delete the entire post-period, inter alia: because there are those who are able to circumvent such a rule. But the important thing is that it now becomes clear that at some point you are free. It is time that debt to the public in the form of taxes and taxes loses its primacy over other liabilities. Today's rule is far unfair to creditors with a harder economy than the public has. It's nice that that change hasn't happened before. I am pleased that there is now a majority in the Committee that advocates that the debt regime should not exclude social assistance, and that an indicative rate of about 85 pst is now being introduced. of the minimum pension as the minimum standard of living. The central party agrees that the debt regime should not come into effect when the debtor’s situation is clearly due to censureable behaviour. It may also be when the debtor has deliberately avoided taxes or taxes. However, I do not want to see any reprehensible behaviour in relation to the tax authorities be highlighted as more serious than against other creditors. The centre party therefore opposes § 1-4, second paragraph, point (e). The Central Party, together with the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposes that the consequences of the establishment of a central debt register be investigated. The consideration of both the borrower and the lender speaks for such a scheme, which can help reduce the number of victims of debt. But there are also other considerations that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e720	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately over, but the President will propose that we continue until case No. 2 is the final debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e725	The left has been working for several years to revise the current debt regime law. For the Left, when revising these laws, it has been the aim of ensuring a law that allows people who have come into a difficult situation to have a debt regime and a possibility for a new start – and that the creditors who are going to contribute to it feel that they too will be satisfied. The debt regulation law that we adopt today in Stortinget will, on many important points, contribute to this. Already in the fall of 1998, the Left wanted to revise the laws. Then she had worked for five and a half years. Many of our trustees were engaged in helping people who had come up with a difficult situation at a time when high unemployment, combined with high housing costs, high levels of loans to finance housing and high interest rates, caused many to have payment problems. An investigation by the National Audit Office in September 1997 on the management of the debt regime law also pointed to a number of critical aspects. Since 1998, three different governments have been working to present an evaluation of this law. The left is pleased that many of the amendments that we presented to the Bondevik government in 1998 are included in the proposals that the Cooperation Agency has now submitted. I want to draw some points that are significantly improved here: A secure and adequate means of life for families with children is provided with a more uniform policy for setting up a family. It is possible to set aside funds to cover additional costs arising from the rights of cohabitation with their own children. A consensual increase also suggests that any special contribution to the children should not be used for the benefit of the creditors, but for the benefit of the children. Different living costs may result in a need for more than 85 pst. of the minimum pension. It is very positive that it is open for tax claims to participate in a debt regime and that a debt regime can also be granted in cases where the debtor has only tax liabilities. The most controversial paragraph of the proposal for the amendment of the debt regime liability is the length of the period of the debt regime. First, I want to point out the time from which the period is to be calculated. To assure the debtor of the Left, it is best that the period is calculated from the time an agreement is concluded – this to prevent the time being drawn out during the negotiation period without the debtor having the security that there is an agreement. The most controversial question in this case – at least that part of the laws that I have received the most input and feedback on – applies to the post-period following the completed debt regime. The left has been very skeptical about this post-war period, as many people feel that they will never be finished with the debt arrangement and can get started again. The Government's proposal that the value increase on the building should not be included in the assessment of whether the debt regime should be set aside is a clear improvement. There will be a collusion that today decides to reduce the post-period from five to two years. With the changes that we are adopting today, the Left's view is that the Debt Code will give people in a difficult economic situation a greater chance of getting a debt settlement and a greater chance of restarting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e767	Many people in this country are struggling with financial problems. In many cases this is due to a debt burden that has become too high in relation to income. There may be many reasons for such a situation. In the past, the main cause was loss-making housing or industrial failure. Now, too, the ease of access to expensive consumer loans is creating a growing problem. An important tool to help people out of debt problems is the Debt Scheme Act. Up to now – from l993 – more than 20 000 people have used the scheme. The main objective of the amendments is to contribute to faster and simpler procedure, greater equal treatment of debtors and greater flexibility in relation to public creditors. I note with satisfaction that we have received broad support to amend the Debt Scheme Act on this basis. Having debt problems that cannot be solved easily creates a very difficult life situation. Many experience problems in relation to simple but basic things such as creating a bank account, agreeing on electricity or telephone subscriptions, renting a dwelling, etc. Indebtedness problems have also proved to be a cause for deep-seated difficulties in other areas, such as health and life problems. Some people feel that the problems are so burdensome that they have given up the job. Against this background, very important issues are being discussed here today. Work on improving the Debt Schemes Act has been concentrated mainly in three areas. It has been necessary to look at some aspects of the procedure. Following the proposal, the negotiator shall be able to open both indebtedness negotiations and confirm amendments. This will make it practically easier and quicker to arrive at a debt regime. Some legal provisions have proved to be so discretionary that major differences in interpretation have arisen. This applies, inter alia, to: the question of when a debt regime will be consistent and the duration of the debt regime. Therefore, legislative adjustments have been proposed on both of these points, which are likely to lead to greater non-discrimination. Another important theme of the Debt Scheme Act is the position of public creditors. No one should be excluded from obtaining a debt arrangement because of debt to the public. To some extent it is today. Nevertheless, we are going in to make the law more flexible with respect to public creditors. These changes are central to the amendment and could help a number of people who have not yet been able to obtain a debt regime. Enquiries I have received indicate that many of these have been struggling with the difficulties for a long time. I am pleased that the Committee is very much in favour of the proposals presented in these areas. I have, of course, noticed that in some cases the Committee goes beyond what has been proposed in order to facilitate the situation of the debtors. I understand this, but I would also like to remind you that there are important countermeasures to be taken. Most importantly, perhaps the consideration is for all those who, despite great negligence, are able to pay their debts. The most important changes in tax requirements are likely to be made. So far, those that have more than 60 pst. tax debts, in practice, could not obtain any debt regime. This rule is now being proposed, so that a high proportion of tax debts will no longer be in the way of a debt regime. I have noticed that the majority of the committee will also have full equality between tax and other liabilities in terms of the distribution of creditors. Another type of public debt that may stand in the way of a debt regime is fines and compensations. Therefore, amendments are proposed in this area as well. The Committee supports the proposal in principle, but wishes to see a more nuanced rule which makes a clearer distinction between fines and different types of compensation than has been proposed. In addition to what is now mentioned, the proposal contains proposals for a number of major and minor adjustments to the law. In my view, these proposals together will lead to the Law on Debt Schemes becoming an even better and more targeted instrument in dealing with the debt problems of private households. In addition, the law may now further prevent irresponsible lending policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e788	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e791	I agree with the Council of State that there is a lot of concern here that one should take care of, not just the care of the debtor. I also clarified that in my article. But there are now multiples for a good deal of changes to the Government's proposal – what I call improvement: a clarification that public debt itself should not prevent a debt regime fromamending public and private debt under the wider possibility of indebtedness several times the length of the debt regime shall be applicable from the opening of the indebtedness negotiations a reduction of the post-term period from five to two years of indebtedness for creditors; When I say that there are improvements, the Council of State may agree with me, even if the Government had made suggestions about something else. Yesterday, during the financial debate, we experienced that the Christian People's Party stated that one saw the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party as a clear improvement in relation to the Government's proposal. It might also be interesting to right if the Council of State found this to be true today. Some are direct changes to the laws, but some are expressed in the form of comments on the understanding and practice of the rules. I would like the Council of State to confirm that this understanding is being used. In particular, Section 1-4(e) states that public debt in itself should not prevent the arrangement of debts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e819	In the work on the Debt Regulations Act, which has been at the hearing and with which we have worked a great deal also from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, I have to say that we have had a number of exciting debates with other departments, which is actually also evident in the position. The Committee may have been given an insight into how individual departments have thought in different areas. That being said, I would say that there are a lot of reasons to take. One reason that may not have been mentioned here today, but which may have meaning in some contexts, is in those cases where you have bailiers. In particular, this applies to the post-war period, where some bailiffs may have to pay very long on a debt, while the one who has had a debt arrangement will be completed relatively quickly. It has been one of the reasons that I have been somewhat concerned about. There is no doubt that for the debtors there are some improvements that have been made by the majority in the Grand Duchy, while for some of the areas there is actually no disagreement about intention and reality. I specifically mention social assistance, which was also addressed by the Christian People's Party representative. Of course, we're going to use the understanding that's come from the Storting today, and what's here from the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e828	I want to bring up two things with the council. First of all, very briefly, the Council shares the fear of the representative Heidi Larssen that the guide rate of 85 p.m. of a minimum pension may be considered a maximum rate and not a minimum rate? And how, if so, will the Council of State in the design of the guidance initiatives ensure that this is perceived as being the case for the majority? The second is what the government itself writes in the bill, that no other country has a post-period rule, as we have. In the listening round, there was also a lot of input to the government to remove the rule. Some of the reasons for this were that it would simplify the role of the public prosecutor, but most of the reasons were that it is unreasonably that creditors should be able to attack the debtors for more than five years after the end of the period. And removing the rule will preserve the right to a new start. The Tax Directorate would repeal the rule and indicate that it has unclear consequences for the debtor. The Consumer Council and the Debt Victim Alliance are also some that the rule should be removed. It is then with great wonder that I see that the Government failed in these very clear advices to pass on the rule and justify the position that there is a result of the discussions that have been conducted between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Children and Family. But since the content of those discussions is not available – at least I haven't found it – can the Council of State give us an answer as to why the Government has not removed the post-secondary rule, but rather to continue this strange scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e839	First of all, the issue of lifelong guidance. Previously, you've had 75 pst. of the minimum pension as an indicative standard. Anyway, that's the way it's been, and it's still going to be, that even if you get a different percentage, the rates of living will have to be measured individually. This means that one can either get a higher percentage or a lower percentage according to the indicative standard. It's only meant to be a starting point for judgement, and that means that both individual considerations, which I've been dealing with, and also consideration for local circumstances, should be taken into account. There shall be no fixed limit, no minimum limit or maximum limit. I think it's important that we stick to it. So that means that it could vary something about 85 pst, which it'll now be. What we know is that special expenditure on, for example, disease and transport, etc. may give rise to rights such as: additional provision for living, and we have also seen that such conditions do so in practice. With regard to the second question of the five-year period proposed by the Government following the completion of the debt regime, it is true that there has been a debate on it, and I do not hide that there is disagreement about it. That's it to the best of my ability to say, I think. However, we have ended up maintaining the proposal for a five-year rule. Now I would like to point out that the government parties here in the Chamber will vote subsidiaryly for a two-year post-period. At least we've wanted an afterperiod. There has been a lot of debate about how long it should be. And that, as I mentioned in my previous answer, may seem particularly unreasonable to bailiffs who have had to endure great losses and perhaps have to pay off debts – some of them actually live out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03-lower.ana.ud1124e848	Several have not asked for the word for a line. No more people have asked for the word on case 2. New meeting will be set at 9.30 a.m. 18 for the treatment of the remaining cases on today’s map. [[Footage, see page 150]]
