ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e74	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e83	The majority adopted last year's Quality Reform of Higher Education. It has, among other things, as an objective to improve the quality of studies. The reform shall give institutions greater freedom, but also more responsibility for strategic governance and better resource use. Odelstinget has earlier in our adopted amendments to the Law on Higher Education to follow up the Quality Reform. Now the law audit and a new name for the private higher education law are also coming as part of the same process. The size has previously decided to have a common law, and today's treatment is a step towards harmonising higher education legislation. The private higher education institutions naturally belong to a comprehensive education and research system. The majority of the Committee considers it necessary to ensure equivalence in the treatment of public and private education services that meet clear quality requirements. The government's proposals have been widely accepted in the committee hearing, and the adoption of decisions today is identical to their proposals. The main change to the Government's proposal is the accreditation of private colleges. Such a scheme would enable private universities to obtain the approval of the institution as such, and not just the approval of individual studies as today. The accreditation criteria shall be the same as for State institutions and implemented by the same accreditation body, NOKU. The majority believe that such an institution accreditation system simplifies the work of approving studies and provides institutions with even more self-government within the quality assurance framework of the accreditation body. NOKU may also grant tuition rights and state grants for individual studies. The second important change concerns statutory rights and obligations for students at private colleges. The Management Board is now responsible for both external physical conditions and the way in which the institution organises its teaching and guidance services. The aim of the change is to ensure equality with State higher education institutions. A majority believe it is positive that students at private colleges are now given statutory rights and obligations in line with state higher education institutions. This majority is awaiting application in the private higher education law of the new rules of the Law on Higher Education in the field of the working environment of students, etc., but assumes that these rules are followed up by the private higher education institutions. Until a new common law is in place, the majority, the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Center Party assume that the private universities follow the intentions of the provisions on the learning environment of the students adopted by the Odelstinget in Innst. O. No 58. Furthermore, the same majority assumes that independent supervision also oversees the learning environment of students in private universities. A minority in the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV, want to increase the representation of employees and students in the boards of private universities. A majority, including the Christian People's Party, believes that such a change in the law should be assessed in an overall context related to the relationship between the rights and duties of the private universities. Odelstinget is given the opportunity to deal with the proposal for a common law on state and private higher education. It is important to point out that the law continues the provision that the owner has the ability to control his business. During the consultations within the Committee, private universities have expressed concern that the examination of applications for new study offers should be suspended on time. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, consider that, in the light of the regulatory changes, it is possible to streamline the procedure and ask the Ministry to give priority to private higher education matters. Furthermore, we will show compliance with applications from doctoral institutions when these are within approved disciplines. This is important in order to ensure the simultaneous introduction of new degree structures in the private and public sectors. I would ask the Council of State to confirm that the Department will devote the necessary resources and exercise flexibility so that this can be achieved. Otherwise, the Progress Party proposes that private colleges which are entitled to a degree or which provide vocational training be accredited to institutions. The Christian People's Party cannot support this, because we believe it would be wrong to anticipate NOKU's work on institution accreditation. Such accreditation must also involve institution accreditation. Such accreditation must also address the quality system and the learning environment of higher education institutions, which has not been taken into account in the current system of examination rights and degrees. The Committee also discusses the principles for financing private schools. There's no collective majority for a special model. As far as the Christian People's Party is concerned, I would just like to point out that the Government is notifying a proposal in the 2003 State Budget, and that the Government is basing its principles on the majority in the Budget. S. No 12 for 2001-2002. I am pleased with that. I note that the Government has presented a legislative proposal that brings together broad support and will recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e109	The Labour Party has supported greater equality between private and public services in higher education, and also supports the gradual emergence of a common law for the sector. These legislative changes will provide a greater degree of equality between private and public universities, but also greater responsibility for private higher education. Now, when we get a system of accreditation, it represents a new and more general recognition system that I hope will help to ensure the quality also in the private education offer. Accreditation covers more than just the right to an examination. Here it is important to take into account that it also concerns the learning environment and quality assurance systems. Through the work on quality reform, we have suggested that several higher education institutions develop into universities. I think it's an advantage that we now have the law to protect the denominations of universities, scientific colleges and accredited colleges. With regard to students' rights and obligations, it is our view that students in private colleges should have the same rights in institutional boards as students in public schools. It implies the election of two student representatives in the Higher Education Councils. We also want the public to appoint a representative of the board of directors of all the institutions that receive State operating grants. I regret that the bourgeois parties will not be included in these proposals. Increased student democracy is important, and it is right; it is not a problem, as the government parties have presented it. The fact that the government has transparency and influence in institutional boards where taxpayers’ money is used is a matter of course to me. It appears that these batches pay more attention than to the use of public funds. The Workers' Party is in the majority who want it to be an independent body in the private colleges that supervises the learning environment of the students until the new law comes. We assume that until a common law is in place, the colleges will follow up on the intentions of the provisions on the learning environment of students. Private higher education is a complement to the public education system. That is our primary position. It is an important addition, yes – especially where there is a need for increased capacity or where public institutions do not cover the subject area. From my point of view, it is important to stress that this does not mean full financing of private offers. It is because the Workers' Party is concerned that it is the public educational institutions that bear the responsibility for higher Norwegian education. It's the public schools that are involved in providing the whole country with a decentralised network of universities and colleges. In a situation where we have enough study places within many disciplines, the creation of private offerings in more central areas can help to weaken recruitment to higher education institutions in the districts. We must never put ourselves in such a situation that operating grants to the private lead to a weakening of public service offers. I finally take up the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e128	Eva M. Nielsen has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e131	This is the fourth case in this Chamber during a week related to the quality reform in higher education. Also in this case, Stortinget, or Odelstinget this time, will join the proposition. This time, the Committee's recommendation is entirely similar to the Government's proposal, with some varying majority compositions. For the Right, there are some basic principles on which to base, first of all, equivalence in the treatment of public and private education services. Ensuring equivalence in treatment is a clear filling of Innst. S. No 337 for 2000-2001. Secondly, the recognition of the importance of private universities in many areas of education is based on recognition. These are areas where public services are lacking, and there are even more areas where public services are lacking. Thirdly, the owners of the institutions must be given the opportunity to respect the special nature of those institutions. The rapporteur has clearly explained the majority's view, so I would like to comment on a few points on which there has been a disagreement in the committee, and I would like to justify the view of the Right. We support the government's proposal on the composition of the board, which is that this does not change in relation to the law of the day. Current law provides both employees and students with representation in the board of directors. For us, it is important that this be continued in order to ensure that the owners have the necessary governance. Something else would be pointless. We must not create a system in which the government will have an inappropriate volume in order to safeguard the natural right of governance of the owners. I also refer to the majority comment that we will come back to this issue and assess it in an overall context when a common law for state and private institutions comes to the treatment. Therefore, the right does not support the amendments to Section 3 of the Workers' Party and SV. Let me also comment on the majority comment on a flexible procedure in the ministry regarding the approval of new study offers. In order to fulfil the principle of equivalent treatment, private universities must be given the opportunity to market their offers at such an early stage that students are given real choice. It is very affordable that the authorisation rules were substantially simplified in January 2002 and that the objective was to make the system as simple as possible. However, several of the institutions expressed concerns in their consultation opinions about the situation of private higher education institutions for the 2003–2004 academic year. The majority comment on this point is therefore important and clearly indicates that private higher education matters are to be given priority in the ministry. From the Right, we are pleased that the Ministry will come back with proposals for funding systems for private higher education institutions in its 2003 draft state budget. However, we are aware that the funding system for private universities should be based on the same principle as for state universities. The same principles should be based. By doing so, we are not saying anything about the extent of state funding, just what system the funding will be based on. We believe that these are sound principles and await other proposals for the 2003 budget. As stated above, the Government is fully in place for its proposals. It ensures a law for private colleges which have parallelities to the law of higher education, which was dealt with in Odelstinget a week ago. We get parallelism both in terms of accreditation and in relation to the students' learning environment. Finally, let me express satisfaction with the fact that while we have previously had a law on the right to an examination and state grant to private colleges, we now have a law on private colleges. It also says that equivalency in the treatment of various offers is becoming a reality. In my opinion, we now get a good law for the private colleges. We have received a good law for state universities and colleges, and now the work of bringing this together remains in a common law. The proposal announces that this work will start during 2002. It'll be an important work. I think it's been a wise and proper strategy to implement the process of common law in two steps, as the arrangement was also from the former government. Now the first step is done. The second step is now pending the decision of Stortingen from Innst. S. No 337 for 2000–2001 has been implemented. I have great faith in a good final result.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e152	To follow up on the previous speaker, this two-stage rocket is a rocket that we don't think is good. This is, in the opinion of the Progress Party, an unnecessary extra round. In connection with the previous treatment of the Quality Reform by Stortinget, Stortinget i Innst. S. No Decision XIV was adopted by 337 for 2000-2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to draft a proposal for a common law for State and private institutions in higher education.’ The decision is clear. The government has chosen its own interpretation. It is stated in the proposition: «Work on a common legal framework for State and private institutions will start during 2002». In the context of control, the party has repeatedly pointed out that, in our view, such a liberal and free interpretation of clear decisions in the Storting is not acceptable. The Progress Party therefore supports its own proposal that such a case on common law be brought forward by the end of the first half of 2003. This gives the government a time frame for their work. Nevertheless, the Progress Party can be satisfied that this case brings us a little step further on the road towards non-discrimination between public and privately owned universities. I refer to the case we have recently dealt with, Innst. O. No 58 for 2001–2002, based on Ot.prp. No 40 for 2001-2002 on universities and colleges. The progress party is basing itself on parallelism in both of these cases. In both cases, students' learning environment is brought in. The Progress Party continues to believe that we should have one law bring together all the provisions relating to the working environment, which in this law is thus called the learning environment. It is fully possible to adapt regulations to the actual situation of the different groups covered by a common law. It will be fully possible, and it will be rational and effective. In particular, it will ensure that legal provisions relating to this important area, the working environment, are ensured by means of a proven supervisory authority and a supervisory authority with sanctioning powers. If we don't associate law with credible supervision and effective sanctions, the law can be a blow in the air. The matter is too important for that. According to the view of the Progress Party, it is also unnecessary to determine more here. We have a work supervisor. In our opinion, there is no good reason not to conclude immediately that we can also use the Labour Inspectorate as a supervisory authority to ensure that students have a good working environment – a good learning environment. In this case too, the Progress Party together with SV therefore has a different proposal for Section 10f, similar to the proposal we had in the matter of universities and colleges. For the first paragraph of Section 9 and the third paragraph of Section 9, the Progress Party has different proposals. This is also in order to seek parallel treatment in relation to the Law on Higher Education. This concerns the position of the NOKU and the intensified legal text which ensures that other examinations and degrees are accepted when they are at the specified professional level. The formulation of the majority is ‘can’. It seems that we open up interpretation and different treatment for students. For Section 10, the Progress Party has proposals for four additions. As long as we continue to operate with two laws, we will ensure equal treatment through the legal text. Therefore, in this case, we have the same additions to accreditation and evaluation on the basis of the standards used for equivalent training at leading international institutions. It's setting a principle. It is not as the Minister of Education claimed in the case of universities and higher education that it is not possible, because there are no or can be established international standards in this field. The Council of State properly moderated the rejection somewhat in the exchange of lines. This is about establishing a principle that we in this country should measure against the best. I don't understand why other parties want to reserve themselves against such ambition. The Progress Party also has the additions to ensure the NOKU, the accreditation and evaluation body, the most independent position possible in relation to the Ministry. And finally, the Progress Party will establish an independent anchor for decisions taken by the NOKU. In addition to this, the Progress Party will also decide that private colleges which are currently entitled to a degree or which provide vocational training under Section 9 of the Act are to be declared accredited colleges. This will ensure that private universities are not discriminated against in such a way that only the private sector will be able to regain full accreditation when the new NOKU is in place and start its activities. We are afraid, therefore, that, as usual, private institutions to be weighed, measured and evaluated, while public institutions carrying out similar activities should be self-written as fully accredited. It shouldn't be like that in our opinion. I refer to the proposals which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has put forward at the time of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e184	Arne Sortevik has put forward the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e187	Now most things are good, according to Jan Olav Olsen, and that might be right. We're going to hope it gets right when this law is going to work. In this debate some concepts have hovered around. These are concepts of equivalency, equality and full harmonisation. Most speakers would have used at least one of these terms during the debate. No one has tried to define what they're adding to them, but they're using them. We have tried with a definition at least of one, namely harmonisation. What do we put into the concept of harmonisation? We have just passed the law on universities and colleges, and now the rapporteur on the matter, Arne Lyngstad, argues that we should also harmonise this law, the private university law, against that law. In some areas, we are trying to harmonise. We figured we'd get a majority for that. Actually, we don't. We propose that the same legislation should apply to private colleges as to public institutions with regard to the democratic rights of students and employees in relation to their board. We are proposing full harmonisation, exactly what the rapporteur asked for. We propose that there should be two student representatives and two representatives of the staff of the Governing Board. However, this type of harmonisation is clearly not going to be part of the majority. What, then, is harmonisation, if it is not to implement the same rules and regulations in private institutions as in public institutions? In addition, we believe that when the state, the public community, finances a large part of these institutions – some of them get up to 100 pst. It is strange that the majority in the Chamber does not believe that the public should appoint representatives of the board of these institutions. It is the public that finances them, it is the community that finances them, and then it should be lacking that the community should not also have a representative on the board, just as the students and employees should have the same representation on these boards as on public institutions. I record that a user concepts such as equality and full harmonisation, but that really does not mean anything when it comes to the practical and the actual and the concrete proposals. So for this with the approval of the subject. I agree with what has been said that the approval procedure takes too long. It's been too slow in the department, I think most people will stress that – not because we're going to be quick to compete with the public, that's not the point, but the lengthy procedure in the department to get a job approved is unfortunate. Many of the institutions concerned have professionally seen good quality. We know basically that they have good quality, they're good institutions, they have research environments, etc. It is clear that it should not take as long as it has in some cases. I support the call from the rapporteur on the matter to the Council of State that we must speed up this process. We have to spend shorter time on this. It should be easier. Then to finance. Here, too, a term like equality, equivalency, etc. without defining what one adds to it. We have proposed a model of how the public should finance these institutions, and our model is funded by contractual relationships. That means that where the private institutions represent a supplement, where they represent a professional education that we want, where the public should go in with full funding, the public should take full responsibility. It has to be part of the total educational offer that we have, for which the public community, is responsible, and then of course the public has to finance it. This would have been a good model both for the public and for these institutions, so I regret that we have not received a majority for this. I hope that when we move on with this matter, when we adopt a final model in the future, this will be a model for which more will go in and for which we will have a majority. We also think of these institutions as we have for the public today, which is a basic allocation plus three variables.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e206	On behalf of the Centre Party, I would like to state that the public educational institutions are and will be the main pillar of higher education. Nevertheless, private educational institutions have an important place within the higher education system. The centre party believes that private educational institutions represent more than just a supplement to the public. Private educational institutions have a long tradition and history, and many of them have been established for ideological reasons. For example, diaconal educational institutions can be mentioned, where, for example: Nursing has a different focus on some areas of education than on public health. We need this diversity in our education system. As part of the Quality Reform, the government has asked the government to draft a proposal for a common law for state and private institutions in higher education. The central party accepts that this will take some time, and that, pending a new law, the Government has put forward two odelsting propositions – first Ot.prp. No 40 and now this proposition, so that private colleges can also start implementing the Quality Reform. The Centre Party agrees with the Ministry that the proposed accreditation and evaluation body shall also manage the accreditation of private higher education institutions. This simplifies the approval of studies by private universities, and that's good. Today it is a very cumbersome and bureaucratic process. The centre party will underline the positive fact that students in private colleges are now given statutory rights and obligations in line with students in state higher education institutions. With regard to the working environment of students, the need for organisation and the system of education plans, the Central Party takes note that the Ministry is waiting to apply this to private colleges now. However, as the majority of the Committee also expects, the Centre expects these elements to be followed up by private colleges, and it seems important that students' rights are respected. So a little bit to the composition of the board and the representation of employees and students in the boards. Under the law on private higher education in force, employees and students are represented in the boards of private universities. The government has not proposed any changes to this. The centre party participates in a majority which stresses that an amendment to the law at this point must be considered in a coherent context related to the relationship between the rights and obligations of the private colleges. The Central Party expects this to be a theme of a common law for state and private institutions, as the Government has announced. The central party stresses that Section 3 of the Act – the first, second and third paragraphs – is continued, so that the owner must still have the right to manage his institution. So finally a little bit about funding. The Centre Party considers that the same funding principles apply to private colleges as to state universities. At the same time, we would stress that the extent of state funding to private universities is only subject to political decision-making and treatment once the new funding system has been developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e223	Let me first be allowed to express satisfaction with the Committee's position and with the rapporteur's explanation of the vote, which is at all points identical to the Government's proposal. I do not feel the need to say so much on the occasion of the case, but I would like to comment on a few of the questions that have been raised, and first on the question raised by the representative Lyngstad, who was also affected by the representative, concerning the simplification of the procedures or the need for a smooth procedure. I can confirm that we want to facilitate that. The guidelines were completely amended at the end of 2001, and the new guidelines include, inter alia,: that higher education institutions which already have the right to study may submit new applications directly to the Secretariat of the Norwegian Network Council instead of going to the Ministry. At the same time, the private colleges have been given extended powers to make changes to approved studies without having to apply for the agreement of the ministry. The aim of these simplifications was that we wanted to make it as simple and as smooth as possible within the framework of the applicable law. With this new law now, the Ministry will add authority to the new body NOKU as soon as this body is operational. When we get the institutional approval system for private colleges, it will involve greater powers for the private colleges that obtain such recognition, and consequently no or easier procedure in many cases. I might add that when it comes to adapting to a new degree structure and prioritizing applications there, we are also concerned about it, and add up to a maximum degree of parallelity. Private higher education institutions are informed that they can introduce new degrees as early as autumn 2002, and per year. Today we have 22 applications from private colleges, and we aim to treat them before the holiday. In the end, I just want to comment on this with one, two, or three-speed rockets. From the previous government it has been added to a two-stage rocket. I am well aware that this has been explained here in Stortinget without any comments. When the government change took place and I entered the department, it was not possible to turn it into a quick one-step rocket. It was then laid out some sort of tempo plan. But what I then took the initiative was that we should get this change in the private higher education law, so that we should get the highest possible degree of equivalence as early as possible. To do so quickly, we have had to rely on a consultation process that had already taken place and on a dialogue with the sector, and that is within the framework we have now proposed changes. Then we will address the other questions that have been considered, in connection with the work of common law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e238	The Government has announced the creation of a new financing scheme for the private higher education institutions in view of the State operating grants. This has also been affected during the debate in the Chamber today. My concern is: can the Council of State say something about the principles to be applied when it comes to finding schemes for State operating grants to private universities? I am thinking in particular that there must be a balance between the private offer given, and the public offer given at the university level. As it is today, the private offerings in higher education are largely added to the central strata, to the largest cities. We must not sit in such a situation that we weaken the opportunities of the district colleges by making the state funding of the private universities in central districts too good. So what are the principles that we want to apply without weakening today's higher education structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e247	As we have announced, we will come back to a discussion of the funding mechanism and the funding system in the context of the 2003 state budget, and we will then raise to a greater degree of equivalence with regard to the principles of funding systems in relation to the state sector. But, as several of the representatives have been involved here, one must distinguish between principles and scope. I can only now say that if you were to think of total non-discrimination, it would be very expensive, and it would also ignore what the representative here was about, that some of the state institutions also have tasks beyond the immediate educational as well, for example. is of a regional nature. We are aware of this. We come back to the system and the principles, but we have to separate it from the amount of funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e252	Three points to the Council of State, second step in the launch: how long will it take? When do we get the case? How long will the Council of State take to bring up a matter of common law? So to this with the funding that's announced: here I want to pre-empt the answer and warn against putting it in as part of an ordinary budget. You can do that when you put in a budget, but leave it alone, so that it can get a thorough and proper treatment. I want to encourage you to pick that solution. So finally, in the case of those institutions which are currently entitled to a degree or which provide vocational training under the law’s letter – § 9 of this Act and § 12 of the Law on Higher Education – will it not then be such that they have to be actually recognised – approved is equally accredited – again? So if this is what we think is the basis for claiming, won't it actually be that you actively discriminate between private colleges, that they have to go back to exams, while those who have state ownership do not? We see that as unreasonable. We do not understand that we need to decide that they should be approved by those who already have an acceptance from the public approval authorities, and that we are spending time and power in the NOKU, and that the accreditation and evaluation committee is on the evaluation of all the institutions in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e261	I have taken note of the view of the Advance Party as far as the types of case submission are concerned. With regard to this with common law, I just have to say that in many ways I have a great sense of the impatience of the Progress Party. I often share it. But I think it's realistic to say that a common law could be passed in 2004. The reason why it takes some time is not only related to how fast we can work in the ministry, but it also relates to some formal procedural rules and consultation deadlines that we are forced to comply with. That will be the realistic time perspective. That's indirectly also why we haven't been able to deal with all the issues in the private college law now, because we had to deal with them in the context of a hearing that had already taken place. When it comes to the institutions having to be accredited, I think that's right. They're not as thoroughly evaluated as the state. There is a great diversity in this part of the sector, and I think that the institutions themselves really think it is a great advantage, because it gives them a security and a quality stamp that they have very much benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e270	Let me first commend the Council of State for the answer to Eva M. Nielsen. It was based on a clear and strong recognition that if we're going to treat it the same way, that is. that all should receive exactly the same amount in the same model, it will be expensive and certainly impossible to finance. So the recognition that the Council of State came up with, I think it was good, and I now feel quite confident that this is in good hands – as good as they can be, like that. So a question to the Council of State that goes by common law: I agree with her when we look at the time perspective. This is a comprehensive matter, not a simple matter, so I think that if she manages to present it in 2004, it is quite good. But with regard to the fundamental question that we have raised in this position, namely harmonisation, student representatives on the board of directors and employee representatives on the board of directors, I assume that the Council of State can already signal that it will be implemented in a common law. She'll probably suggest it. I think she might say something about that, reflect a little around and then try to conclude. And if the conclusion is what I expect it to be, it should be a clear call to the institutions, which in this interim period should also facilitate it. So another fundamental question that goes on public representatives of the board: Does the Council of State agree that when the State finances such a large part of these institutions, should the State also have a representative on the board of directors? We have institutions where the state finances 100 pst. Then the question is, Shouldn't the public nominate a representative of that board? Will the Council of State propose this, possibly in the context of harmonisation in a common law?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e283	Let me first thank you for the rose. I'll take it with me. It is quite right, as the representative Rikham says, that the creation of a common law is a rather complicated task, as well as the need to comply with the consultation deadlines. With regard to the governing bodies of the institutions, I am not prepared to conclude here now, precisely because it requires a rather complicated investigation. Some of the things we haven't mentioned on this occasion are more for formal reasons, because we didn't have a hearing on it and therefore didn't find it right. However, there are also some difficult questions and some issues that need to be carefully considered in terms of the differences between a private and a State educational institution, the role that the State should play in relation to private educational institutions, and respect for the right of ownership. I am therefore not prepared to conclude now with what I will propose in this common law, and what will come out of the investigation and consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e292	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e297	The representative, Rikvam, used a rhetoric in relation to his proposal on government representation, which I think was somewhat blocked by what the majority also stands for. There is no disagreement about the principle that both employees and students should be represented in the board. They are today. The only question is whether there must be two in all institutions. That's the discussion we want to see in an overall context, because if you look at that principle, you have automatically also said something about the dimensioning of the board, about the fact that the owner should also have a majority in the board in order to uphold his or her governance rights. I feel that the representative Rikvam does not intrude that this law actually also applies to institutions that have the right to an examination for one subject – a small school that receives state aid for one subject. Does it mean, according to SV's model, that the schools also have to have a board of eleven members, which will be the consequence of two employees, two students and one publicly appointed on the board of directors? That means a government of eleven. These are the consequences that we need to figure out and see in an overall context. Therefore, the majority does not reject the proposal on two members today. But we say that this discussion we get back to, and there I fully agree with the Council of State. I also think that the representative of Rikvam's rhetoric is being put on the spot.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e306	Very short: we have open educational institutions all the way from the University of Oslo with 30,000 students down to the smallest institution that has well under 1,000 students. Nevertheless, we are able to establish a common law and give students participation within the governing bodies. We say there should be a common board, and there the students should have two representatives. Then Lyngstad and others are involved in harmonisation, equivalency, etc. Our scheme is that we want to harmonise the rules between open educational institutions and private individuals and say that the same rules apply, i.e. that one then has two representatives of the Governing Board and two representatives of the employees, precisely to ensure that they are properly represented and to ensure their participation in a good manner. I can't see that this is unreasonable. That is reasonable, and it is an attempt to harmonise what has been the starting point for Lyngstad and others in this matter. Here we should be able to make it clear that harmonisation is immediate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e313	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 518]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e328	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. And then the president will suggest that those who have to sign on the roster in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e337	The government has submitted Ot.prp. No 70 for 2001-2002, with major and fundamental changes to the Employment Act. The Ministry will remove the legal organisation of Aetat and transfer the authority to organise the labour market apparatus from the Department of Labour to the Directorate of Aetat Labour. They propose that complaints and appeals be moved from state to labour directorate, and in their proposal they outline an organisational model with an Aetat local head office in each state. The majority of the Committee supports the Government and supports the amendment of the Employment Act and that it is now entirely up to the authority to organise itself. Minority – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – do not wish to grant this authorisation at this time. In principle, we see that there may be a need and a great desire for the establishment to be allowed to organize itself more freely, but we are deeply concerned because the Council of State and the majority now prescribe the medicine that is needed to correct the problems in Aetat, before they have diagnosed it. The proposition does not in any way address the major problems of Aetat, nor the causes of them. The availability increases, and more people are passive and waiting for clarification. There are major internal problems in the Aetat, and it is absolutely blue if the Council of State intends to finance Aetat in such a way that they can complete the great tasks they have. «What's wrong with Aetat?» said a great chronicle in the Evening Post on April 16th this year. Two former Aetat employees, Tor Larsen and Torkell Skollevoll, asked this question. They described Aetat so that there was too much focus on control orientation. I think that's right. Among other things, a computer system has now been introduced where the main point is that not one penny should go wrong, no matter how much time you spend checking where this crown goes. Then they also say that there is a lack of service setting. She may be, but I have at least received the message from both employees and users that there is a lack of people who are the main problem. Those who need help from Aetat need to meet a human being, not a computer screen, and they don't want to get a sheet stuck in their hands, which they're going to fill in a sail. They need individual treatment and individual service and competence both in terms of communication and rehabilitation. Then the two point out that there may be something about the management culture in Aetat, and they call for a cultural revolution. Yes, it may seem right, but I'm not sure about today's government and the sitting state council are the ones I would have been at the head of a cultural revolution in Aetat. I justify that the specific proposals we have seen so far have been of such a nature that they have made Aeta's tasks more difficult. It has been cut in the apparatus that would enable people to get to work and get back to work. In addition, during the examination of the case, we have come to understand that the model of head office that was sent out at the hearing from the department, which is also referred to in the proposition, is not a guide to the organisational model that has been envisaged in the future. This means that you really don't have a sense of how this is going to be, and that the hearing opinions that have come in refer to it, and therefore have little relevance to the decision we are going to take today. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that I record that you are now referring to the model as if it were in some way the one we are going to go further with. On the part of the majority, we believe that the proposal presented today is misinterpreting the real problems in Aetat, making it more difficult for Stortinget to get the overview we need in order to make the right diagnosis and prescribe the right medicine. If we had these things in place before, I am absolutely convinced that the majority would agree that Aetat has a great need to be able to organize itself freer. So I just want to say on behalf of a unanimous committee that there is a consensus that the right to appeal should be moved to the directorate, and it is gratifying that during the discussion we have also received a proposal that user involvement should be incorporated into the law and ensured in the Aetat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e354	Aetat has been in a continuous process of conversion in recent years, to adapt it to current manning, new tasks and new methods. This is good, but more feedback shows that there is a lack of consistency between resources and tasks. This only leads to one thing, namely that the staff are being converted, and that the sickness report rate is rising. There is a cause for great concern about this development, for Aetat must and must be an establishment with both the ability and the will for rapid and targeted conversion. We are all familiar with the great sick absence in the floor. It's twice as high in Aetat compared to other public etatas it's natural to compare with. Last year, the total sick absence was 9.3 p.m., and the sick absence was just a path. This cannot be understood in any other way than by the fact that there is a strong indicator that the stage is at the breaking point. The aim is to target those groups that need help. As with other States, the budget must work effectively, carry out conversion and quality assurance work. Such processes should and should continue. It may now look as if they added to Aetat have reached a limit and have become what I call a conversion route. In other words, what I'm trying to say is that more conversion in terms of reduced personnel and new reorganisations can be difficult to achieve within the framework of a defensive work environment. Today, Odelstinget shall decide on a legislative proposal containing proposals for changes empowering the Directorate of Labour so that they can organise the establishment on a free basis as they wish – within the framework of their laws, of course. The employee organisations respond most to this and to proposals for changes in Section 6 of the bill from the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. It says: ‘Aetat shall be represented at the locations determined by the Directorate of Labour.’ And it goes on to say: ‘In Aetat, there shall be services for vocational guidance and for the re-establishment of job-seekers with disabilities.’; So when it comes to the first quote, Aetat will have complete freedom to lay down and set up offices. The question will then be whether social governance, i.e. political governance and control of labour market policy, will be significantly weakened. And is this what we want? In the case of the second quote, Aetat can be interpreted in such a way that, in some offices, Aetat can now phase out the essential part of its dissemination work. I see that it may be useful to allow some offices to have good and high competence in specific areas, such as: re-establishment of job-seekers with disabilities, but I nevertheless believe that the offices must not become too specialised. The Labour Party believes that Aetat is the most important qualification seat in Norway. At that time, the combination of dissemination and qualification is precisely the organisation needed to make full use of both the labour market and its potential for users. I note that the Government goes further in its proposal for an organisation model than it was added to the hearing note last year. The Labour Party sees the need to give Aetat room to make the best possible use of the resources, but believes that the most important thing now should be to get the floor up from the ditch it's in. That is why we believe that the biggest challenge must be to have a comprehensive review of the budget before deciding on the reorganization proposal. Finally, I would just like to say that I am pleased that a colleague's committee is busy with user involvement and makes suggestions to ask the government to ensure this by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e382	In the opinion of the Court, it is good that the Ministry of this proposition proposes to make some changes to the Employment Act. This law currently contains detailed rules to prevent the alternative organisation of Aetat. We agree with the Government that it is inappropriate to legislate Aetat's organization. Instead, it is assumed that the Director of Labour shall be authorised to organise Aetat. This also implies the power to determine the local presence of Aetat itself. Right wants to give Aetat the ability to select the structure itself. All parties – as we have heard here now – see the need for change. The difference is that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party will wait. It is regrettable, and in our opinion it will not strengthen the matter. On the contrary, it is important to show initiative and willingness to act. The proposal is in line with the Government's wish for better user orientation and increased freedom of action for public entities. Aetat is getting more freedom of action here. The mandate shall be exercised within the general principles of administration, as otherwise between the Department and the Directorate. The purpose of this is to move resources to Aetat locally, which is the service-producing and user-oriented part of the establishment. Reduction in the number of Aetat County staff shall be resolved through natural turns. In the course of the budgetary procedure in the autumn of 2001, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to examine the issue of a joint establishment for the social, labour and social security sectors. The proposals for legislative changes in this case also facilitate the follow-up to this decision. An organisation without a separate administrative intermediary at the level of the State of Aetat will facilitate the adjustment of today's organisational ties between Aetat, social security and social services in the municipalities. With extensive experience from political work in Kommune-Norway, I would like to say that in many ways within public administration we have structures that can be both heavy and unnecessary resource-intensive. They are also not always in the best interests of those concerned, namely the users. Water-tight bulkheads between stations and in relation to budgets and financial systems lead to the sending of individuals from one level to the other. Unnecessary obstacles and loads are easily encountered by those who are already in a difficult situation. In our view, there is an unmistakable need for more far-reaching reorganisation, with the pooling of individualised services and coordination of agencies and financial instruments. We meet and will follow with interest the important work the Council of State is facing. The removal of the county branch means that the Aetat Labour Directorate becomes the complaint body for decision taken locally. More practice is expected when complaint handling is added to a unit than when it is spread in many county offices. This will maintain good legal certainty for the complainants. I also expect that the new scheme will contribute to user proximity and closer interaction within the organisation. I would like to say to SV that we cannot maintain the county offices and at the same time move the complaint office to the directorate. It is contrary to the Administrative Act, which says that the Board of Appeal should be at the nearest level. The Ministry itself points out in its consultation opinion that Aetat is faced with two strategic challenges in particular. These are important, and I therefore find reason to highlight them here. The first is that users today increasingly need to be seen as individuals with special needs. This must lead to a stronger user focus in the organisation’s functioning. The second is that in order to provide the individual user, the establishment must have a significant focus on forms of work across the boundaries of activity and levels of administration. Finally, I would like to say that the Right is satisfied that the legislative amendments will also take account of these important considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e401	Does the President assume that the representative will make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e404	The representative shall address the proposal set out in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e409	Kari Lise Holmberg has then taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e412	I'm just going to make a shorter statement, and I'm going to point out that the Progress Party supports the Government's view on this matter. There are relatively small changes proposed in the Employment Act, and since the Government announces that it will come back at a later stage with an overall review of the entire Employment Act, this proposition needs to be seen more as an immediate measure. The Progress Party believes that today, employment services must be seen as an ordinary industry, where it is free to provide private workers of all kinds. We're not so concerned about Aetat, but we're concerned about the best of the users. Whether or not to play a role, the tasks of the public authorities should be primarily limited to caring for weak groups and their interests in the labour market. This is also a very important task, as the Progress Party sees it. The Progress Party further believes that most of the Employment Act and its contents are obsolete, it should be repealed. Public and political governance of the labour market is a task that can benefit private individuals today. Dissemination and hiring out of all types of labour may as well take place through a private company without special legal regulations. Public employment measures, government employment services and monopolies on labour renting were probably natural phenomena in the postwar period, but it was then – it is not today. The labour market is changing considerably, and most people are finding work today entirely outside the ordinary public communication service. Aetat has major internal problems, and we prefer that employment services take place primarily in private companies. The Progress Party therefore looks forward to the announced overall review of the whole case, and otherwise joins the simplification proposed in this case. I understand that the proposals have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e432	The proposals have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e436	This thing involves a simplification, and that's sensible. Future organisation is a matter of proposal or action, but the idea of the proposal is to give Aetat the freedom to choose the organisation model itself. It is important that Aetat has an optimal organisation, because there is an increase in the number of people who are completely out of work, and it is expensive both for those who lack income and for the social economy. The Christian People's Party emphasises that state agencies such as social offices, social security offices and Aetat will meet citizens in the future. They're there to give people who need it, help and support, and then we have to have the power to organize it so that we get a simpler Norway. I think most things have been said about the case or else. So I only recommend the minority proposal, which probably gets multiples in this room, and the suggestion of user participation, point B.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e447	The central game looks at this issue in terms of the question: What is the best for the users? At a time when there is so much attention to a more inclusive working life, we want an offensive qualification and dissemination seat that provides good and constructive contributions, so that more people are given the opportunity to associate themselves with the world of work. If the government was of the same opinion, one would believe that the first thing that happened was to define the objectives of Aetat's work, then look at the tools that had to be done, and then suggest changes. I am concerned that the impact of the decisions taken today is not a constructive contribution to a more inclusive working life. In fact, it can cause anxiety and insecurity for many users and too many to add. So the government is proposing to remove the Aetat legislation, and they're proposing to move powers when it comes to organization, from the department, and to Aetat's Director. The center game shares the cause of the action so that these changes do not take place now. The case spokespersons used the terms: diagnosis and medicine. That's exactly how we see it. Let me stress that we are not content with everything that Aetat has done in recent times, nor with the many added ones that have not been able to do, but I think the Government should take a hard-on that they have actually lost between 900 and 1,000 years' worth of work in Aetat since 1995. They've been given substantial new tasks. They've been through a round of creation and closure of the Aetat enterprise. They have been exposed to very large data problems and new recruitment rules. They have continuously been subject to requirements for conversion and efficiency, which in fact in periods has led to the fact that not all offices have been able to keep the opening hours that are inconceivable, which has also clearly resulted in a very high level of sick leave. It is pointed out in other matters from the Center Party that today there is a lack of consistency between tasks and means. For our part, this is essentially unbelievably sad. At a time when more than ever there is a need to pay more attention to what is needed to create a more inclusive working life, at a time when adding to this work of life and light, it is sad and tragic that what the bulk of the population now wants to contribute is to send them into new rounds of reorganization, unrest and insecurity, before the Government and the Storting have discussed what a person really wants with Aetat. For the Government, changes have been notified and a more detailed review at a later date. So the government has chosen to ignore the diagnosis and bring the medicine first. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e460	Let me first say that this is in the form of a small matter, but in reality a big matter. It's a very important thing. Let me also begin by saying that I am very surprised at the attitude of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party in this matter. In the last six months, the serious crisis facing Aetat has been constantly pointed out in the Storting. As far as I can see, the opposition's day-to-day to solve this crisis is that they've wanted to allocate $15 million. kr more to Aetat than the Government has requested – 1 pst. more. If the crisis in Aetat was as massive as the opposition has always claimed, I can't believe you're solving it by giving $15 million. Extra kroner. What the government has done is that we have notified that the entire funding system for Aetat is to be transformed. At the same time, we have taken the initiative to reorganize and redefine the tasks of Aetat, and as part of this, we now propose that Aetat have the freedom to choose how to organize itself. I would like to stress – and here perhaps there is a fundamental ideological difference between the parties that make up the majority of the Storting in this case and the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – that we are convinced that the only way to better correct users, better operation and a simpler public sector is to delegate responsibility and authority to those who have the professional prerequisites for finding the best solutions, and to those who sit closest to those users who need to be solved. We can slowly sit in the Storting and have opinions on how various public institutions should be organised and how users' needs should be met, but we should realize that the 720 000 who work in the public sector, who work out there, who are much closer to the users and who are much closer to the daily problems, have much better prospects for finding out how to solve the problems and how to organise the business than we have at our core. That is what is behind our proposal in this matter. The proposal is not intended as an invitation to the UK to discuss different aspects of the organisation of Aetat. The proposal is intended as a proposal for the Storting to take the competence of Aetat seriously, and let it itself find out how best to organise the business. I'm very glad that it's about a majority in the Stortinge to join this, and I'm absolutely sure that if we want to develop Aetat to a good qualification and dissemination seat for the users, we have to take the establishment seriously, and then we have to let the establishment itself have the freedom that is necessary to find an appropriate organization. In this connection, I also want to mention a few small things. When we say in this context, for example: that the question of the type of service to be represented by in each municipality is to be determined by the directorate and the establishment itself, yes, there is a proposal aimed at providing services in each place that are adapted to the needs of this place. So it's a proposal that aims to take users seriously. We are convinced that the needs you have in different places in Norway are not identical, because we have different types of labour markets. We have people with different types of skills, and we have different relationships in local businesses. Therefore, we need to adapt the offers to local needs. That this should be a way not to user rights and not to strengthen and not to modernise Aetat, I can't understand at all. I am very pleased that the Committee asks us to make proposals that ensure user involvement in Aetat. It's very important, and we're going to follow that up, of course, but I would like to stress that the most important form of user correction and user involvement in Aetat, as in all other departments, is to ensure that the business as such is adapted to local needs and to the individual needs of users. And if we're going to do that, we have to be willing to delegate and decentralize responsibility and authority. This matter is really a test case of whether much of the positive rhetoric on the part of Stortinget with which my modernisation statement was met in Stortinget in January of this year will be followed up with action. I'm very pleased that a majority in the Grand Duchy seems willing to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e482	In the context of the consultation round in this case, three main associations of employees’ organisations and three user organisations have clearly expressed their opposition to the introduction of the head office model now. Why such urgency when we know that the Council of State must also address the question of the aggregation of Aetat, social security and social affairs? I have to ask the Council of State the following questions: does a decision of the proposal in the proposition mean that the head office model will be implemented, or is the Director-General free to choose the model? What is the background for the Council of State wanting to give way to political governance? I believe that the Council of State owes not least the employees a clear answer to these questions. It is not nice to work in a building where there is concern and uncertainty. I also find it strange that the Council of State of this pulpit chooses to criticise the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party when we have stated that we are not opposed to the reorganisation of the establishment, but want to do things in the right order, namely get the establishment up and stand before any reorganisation takes place. I ask that the Council of State not least respond to those who are in the middle of this and feel this turmoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e489	Let me first thank the representative Fall for very good questions! Why haste? Yes, because there's a crisis in Aetat. As we've all been reminded repeatedly in the last year, the crisis in Aetat is. You don't solve the problems in Aetat by not allowing Aetat to find solutions to the crisis. The directorate itself has said very clearly that as part of the process of strengthening and developing the establishment, they need to have the freedom to reorganize. I trust the assessment that lies there, but it's urgent. Why head office model, and will it now be implemented? What is contained in the proposal is for the Directorate to decide for itself how to organise Aetat. But they've notified that the first step is going to be the establishment of the head office. When I propose the general authorisation instead of the Storting being invited to adopt the head office model, it is in order not to have to come back to Stortinget at any stage of the longer term reorganisation, which is also necessary in Aetat. I think it's terribly important for the Aetat employees that they join in taking joint responsibility for the development of the establishment, including the development of the organisation itself in the establishment. The changes in the law that the Storting is now being asked to adopt will create a community of interests between the employees and the management of Aetat, which I think is the best way to go if they are to get predictable framework conditions and a well-functioning union, not only in relation to the users, but also in relation to the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e500	The Council of State refers to its modernisation statement, and I remember it well. Of the four points stated by the Council of State there, two were on user involvement and that employees always had to be on the team, otherwise things would go wrong. When I was in an article in Today's Business on March 9th this year, for example. reads that the Council of State states that he believes that Aetat should ‘offer tailor-made offers to individual jobseekers’ without significant increases in the appropriations, I must be allowed to say that I do not think he has heard specifically either the employees or the users. And to quote more from the chronicle of the Evening Post that I used instead, this is, at best, political «unbreak». In the worst case, it can force the agency – if he combines it with the funding system proposed by the Council of State, which he has neither asked the employees nor the users about, I have letters from him on it – into a new kind of reporting mechanism, which was the problem the last time. What do employees and users really mean? I have a hard pile of hearing opinions down at my house, not to mention a head office model, and there it cracks in every direction, both from the users and from the department seam. Does the department feel that they've got the resources they need? I don't know, but if the Council of State could give us big-time representatives access to the internal documents that the Council of State gets from the department when he's going to set up the budgets, we might know if they've got what they think they're going to have. I would like to ask the Council of State: can he give us insight into it, so that we can know if the seabed is absolutely sure that they have enough resources to do what they are now being asked for? The problem for us who are sceptical about the reorganisation now is not that we are skeptical about being allowed to find a sensible organization of the sea, but that the Council of State shares the political view of strengthening Aetat, and that Aetat must be present all over the country with enough people, is the most important thing for it to be a proper and good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e511	I think I can assure the representative Andersen that there is not a single public office in Norway where the employees and users would agree that the money they had received at their disposal was enough. So I don't think we need to ask the employees and the users about it. We're talking about allocating scarce resources. We'll always do that, but what I've said is that Aetat has the resources that are needed to carry out the tasks that they're charged with by the Storting. That being said, I want to add and make it very clear: it's not enough to reorganize Aetat. It is not enough to give them more money either. There's a number of things that have to be done with Aetat. We have notified changes to the financial instrument which imply that a greater proportion of Aeta's activities will be related to the activity actually carried out in Aetat. The trial scheme to which we are so lucky to receive the Big One's blessing in the current year is likely to mean that Aetat will receive more money during this year than the government of Stoltenberg proposed in the budget last year. So it's not like we're adding up to a scheme that involves less resources to Aetat, but we want to link it up to the reorganisation of the business and the changes in the way you work. Yes, we want to take the employees and the users with us. I've been talking about user assistance and user adaptation, but in terms of employees, they're going in close dialogue. I would like to stress that the dialogue should be primarily between the staff and the management of the establishment, and if there is something that has been a problem in Aetat, it is in fact that it has been difficult to get the constructive dialogue within the establishment, among other things. because during periods employees’ organisations have been more concerned with score points in the press than in fact with creating a better establishment. Fortunately, I think the new management that is in Aetat now has managed to establish a more constructive dialogue with the employees, and that is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e520	State councils were so positive in their speech about taking the competences of Aetat seriously and how important it is for them and the users to be able to play on teams in the individual community. The size looks forward to what will come from the Government when there is greater coordination between the Aetat, social security and social services. But if the Council of State is busy listening to them as well, I think he is somewhat unprecise in relation to the advice he has received. Because if he is going to get something positive out of these proposals, it must be important to have them added. Based on the set of hearing aids that we have been given access to, as well as the round of hearings that the Committee had, which was applicable to both users and users, we are not over-informed that it is right to make a change now – on the contrary. We're open to change at a later stage, and I think it's very sought after by the Council of State to talk about such an ideological separation here. I want to say that from the Center Party's side, we have committed ourselves to making the municipalities themselves try to distribute work to their most disadvantaged people, and also to make it possible for individuals to have greater opportunities. But the Progress Party, which today is supported by the Council of State for its change, has said at the latest today that they like to see private take over all of Aetat's tasks. Is that what the Council of State actually means, because he places so much emphasis on ideological separation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e527	Nothing would please me more than if the Center Party agreed with us that it is important to delegate responsibility and authority. I've always believed that to the extent that it was the thinking of the Center Party. So I very much appreciate what the representative, Kleppa, said. In this respect, let me just underline that when the hearing opinions on the matter were so extensive, there were consultation opinions on a particular organisational solution. One of the reasons why we are now proposing that the Directorate should be able to choose the organisational model itself is precisely to be able to take more account of the divergent views of both users and within the department, on how it is appropriate to organise. So just in the end: the representative Fall was also involved, the relationship to the coordination project between work, social security and social services. I would like to stress that the changes that are now, hopefully, being made to the law are changes that need to be implemented if the collection of services in the field of employment, social security and social services is to be implemented, and if we are to be able to achieve the necessary coordination of agencies. So it's necessary to make the change, regardless of what's going to happen to Aetat, not only in the short term, but also to make the major changes in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e536	If you are ill, you need medical treatment and good care – not a message and a index finger to get up and move on, it goes by itself. This illustration also seemed to me to describe the situation in Aetat. My question to the Council of State is: what is wrong with meddling and rehabilitation before taking on new tasks and reorganizations? Another thing that the Council of State held earlier in the debate, surprised me a little. He made it quite clear that Aetat has enough resources for the tasks they're going to do. My question is: What kind of basis does the Council of State build on this, and where can it possibly be documented?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e544	Let me first say that Globoid is a bad treatment for pneumonia. If it really is that Aetat is in as serious a crisis as many people in this house have wanted, Aetat suffers from pneumonia. The medicine that's been prescribed by the opposition is: Take a Globoid, it'll probably pass! What we are trying to do is treat the disease as such — in the event of changes in the way it is organised, in the event of changes in the way it is financed and otherwise also by strengthening the central management of the directorate. On the second question – what I mean by Aetat having sufficient resources to carry out the tasks they are assigned to do – I find that Aetat is in positive development in terms of earnings, after a difficult first quarter. I record that Aetat has actually had some problems getting really started with the qualification work. In line with this, we've created a resource plan to get them going, and the result is that it's actually not the resources that are scarce at all when it comes to the big task of becoming a strong qualification seat, as well as being a dissemination seat. On this background, I maintain: in the short term, there is no lack of money that is Aeta's problem, there is a lack of people, there is a lack of appropriate organisation, and that's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e551	First, to clear up customs with numbers: I just want to make the council aware that SV in its budgets has strengthened Aetat by several hundred million dollars. I think it actually meant a difference. I think it would have been a more important difference than the trial scheme that the Council of State is now pointing to. And I have a question for it, because I've been interested in it. Initially, I thought it might be a good model, and I asked the Council of State in connection with the revised national budget, where it was presented, whether it was such an estimate that Aetat could get more money if they were able to qualify more. I got a very clear answer: No, it wasn't. Today, the Council of State stands here and says, "Yes, it is. Now I want to get an answer on how this arrangement actually is, so that there can be clarity about it. Then I want to take some of what is SV's concerns here, and that's what the Council of State repeatedly asserts, that he believes that the necessary resources are in place in the building, without us being in any way sure that the Council of State knows it and has an overview of it. For what happened in the fall was that the government's sea wrote in the budget that the unemployment was going to increase. So the department – and also the state council – knew that the computer system was under conversion, with severe problems and with increased control requirements that took a very long time. In addition, there was a new performance regulation, which was poorly planned and with which it went wrong. All of this knew the councils. And then the Minister of Social Affairs says to SV when SV proposes to improve the economic conditions of the poorest, that the poorest should not have more money, they should be working. The first state council then does, is cut in the apparatus that we know is completely on the edge of the collapse. It did not work a month before they had to spend more money. So I want to ask the Council of State: isn't it that you now want to shift the political responsibility for these missing resources from one side to the next?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e558	History is an interesting subject, and I was happy to spend hours discussing the history of this congregation. The themes that Karin Andersen is now addressing, we have actually talked about repeatedly in Stortinget during the winter, spring and summer. I think, for the sake of Aetat and the users of Aetat, we're going to talk about what's going to happen in the future, rather than what's happened in history. So I will carefully comment on the question of whether there is an estimate we have proposed or not. The formula is not that, just to have established it. But what we have said is that we want a testing scheme that means that funds under Chapter 1592 can be used instead to develop the competence and capacity of Aetate related to the activity they are actually capable of. At the same time, we have announced that in the 2003 draft budget we will propose a new financing mechanism for large parts of Aeta's activities. However, the implication of this test scheme is that the resource framework for Aetate that is available in the current year, by all probability, will be greater than that proposed by the government of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e565	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 523]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e583	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e590	I will, on behalf of the rapporteur, present the following: This case has its background in that in Ot.prp. No 17 for 2001-2002 proposed that the daily allowance period should be limited to 26 weeks, but that persons on labour market measures in charge of or in cooperation with the labour market seat may terminate the measure even if the measure goes beyond 26 weeks. The Committee considered that a period of 52 weeks was too long and that it did not encourage them to switch to other work or participate in labour market measures. The Municipal Committee unanimously agreed to the position on this matter, and the proposal was subsequently adopted unanimously at Stortinget. However, the Committee had made it clear that one could, if necessary, amend the law if this change would have a significant negative impact on workers or significantly greater unemployment. Now the law has worked for well five months, and so far the consequences for employees seem to be relatively small. On the other hand, several have expressed concern about the consequences for some industries. In particular, it concerns the asphalt industry and the offshore supply industry. It is worth noting, however, that, in the light of experience, the proposers consider that there is no reason to go back to the old legislation. On the other hand, there is a need for transitional arrangements, as requested by organisations in those sectors. Transitional arrangements could make the transition to new legislation more flexible and ensure the stability of the new legislation. Proposalers are afraid that these industries will have to resign valuablely qualified personnel. The majority of the Committee's proposals, promoted by the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Party of Progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, mean that workers who were in a continuous period of leave before 31 December 2001 are to be treated in accordance with the legislation applicable before the amendment of the Act of 21 December 2001, as long as the period of leave is concerned. Furthermore, it is proposed that for workers who were not in a continuous period of leave by 31 December 2001, the rules should be applied in such a way that the period of leave before 1 January 2002 is not included in the calculation of the 26-week allowance in Section 3 of the Wage and Occupational Pensions Act. The first paragraph and the People's Security Act, § 4-7. For the asphalt industry, an allowance of 36 weeks applies under the same provisions. The minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Right and the Christian People's Party, points out the problems of this proposal for Aetat and that the proposal lays down specific rules for special groups. The minority also refers to the central principle that enterprises should not be able to pass their costs on to the population. The position of the majority of the municipal committee is that the proposal of the deposit representatives Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Per Sandberg, Karin Andersen and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is adopted. I allow myself, on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, to address the minority's proposal that Document No. 8:135 not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e605	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e608	It is important to have good arrangements to ensure stability for both businesses and workers in times of strong economic fluctuations. On the other hand, too generic legislation on the permit side may mean that too much of today's labour is channelled into the industries that have these major fluctuations. Another result of an overly generic code may be that the number of layoffs increases because it is cheaper for employers. So far, I think we're pretty much a few. We also know that there may be major economic fluctuations in some industries, and there may be other, unfortunate reasons why employers have to go to the step of permitting. A co-ordinator's committee said that it was important to follow closely the developments in the labour market when the law was being dealt with in winter. And if the labour market situation would be difficult, with extensive lay-offs and negative consequences for workers, the Committee would reiterate its concern and, if necessary, amend it. There is no reason to argue that the legislative changes have had a major negative impact on workers in general after the law has worked for five months now. But we have seen and seen some challenges for some industries that we will address in this proposal of temporary law. After the amendment of the laws was implemented in winter, several messages came from seasonal industries and from both employers’ and employers’ organisations – especially from the asphalt industry and the offshore supplier industry. The asphalt industry, for example, depends in many ways on both geographical and climatic conditions. When it comes to the supply industry within the offshore sector, it is quite clear that there will be lay-offs in this industry in the future – we have received clear evidence of this. But the point is that it seems that in the near future industry will secure large and extensive contracts, and that's good. It is important for these enterprises to maintain both the labour force and not least the competence of the enterprise. In this sense, a majority of the Committee believes that these industries need to have a specific transitional regime – because the private sector's asphalt industry is mainly in the field of summer maintenance, while the state's road system, for example. has year-round assignments. As you know, next year's process will be devoted to launching the Road Service mission, and this can change things in the future. In retrospect, there has also been another problem, namely that the promise does not have a retroactive effect for workers who have been on leave during the last 18 months towards the turn of the year, and who came to work before the new law came into force. I see that this creates problems for companies that have planned to operate on the basis of the previous legislation. This creates serious problems for workers who may be at risk of losing their entitlement to unemployment benefits and benefits after a short period of leave in 2002. The majority of the committee believes that there is a need for a transitional arrangement – in other words, that these employees are given transitional rules that guarantee them the right to benefits during the leave of 26 weeks without deduction from what they were allowed to do last year. Governments have not yet been willing to establish transitional rules. That is why a number in the Committee have done something about this problem. I would remind you that the committee took its height to ensure that it was important to follow developments closely and, if necessary, to amend the laws if this would lead to negative consequences. The Council of State, by letter to the Committee, has raised the question of obtaining a regulatory secret in order to define the scope of the ‘asphalt industry’. The majority have entered this mandate, and my interpretation of the scope is as follows: As workers in the asphalt industry, workers who are mainly engaged in the production, preparation and laying of bituminous masses, i.e. asphalt, are considered to be workers. And ‘essential’ means that the employee must be employed in more than 80 pst. of his working hours in asphalt production.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e639	It is unnecessary for SV to extend this debate. We join the post that was kept from the Workers' Party, and have nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e644	There are new rules for permitting. Last year they were adopted. The rules are still clear and give rise to a six-month leave. Most of the comments are made by the case coordinator, but the signatures will only point to a few points. We have a tight labour market in the country. In some districts there is, in fact, a huge shortage of labour. Secondly, Aetat has problems in several areas – the previous case showed it – and strives to do something about what has priority. What we need at least now is a law of transitional arrangements throughout this year for those who have to be on leave last year, and possibly in some areas this year. This means that those who are outlawed are less likely to get back to work. It exposes the Aetat to further pressure if we do this, and it's even more costing to the population. I don't think that's a reasonable contribution to today's society. I register the plural, but recommend minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e657	Nor shall I from the Centre Party's side contribute to the extension of this debate, just saying that then Ot.prp. No 17 was discussed in the municipal committee before Christmas, questions were asked about the effects of the changes proposed in the payroll law, and especially the change from 52 to 26 weeks, was well clarified. The Committee pointed out that it was necessary to follow closely the effects. Later, the Council of State first came to the attention of the Stortinget that there were unfortunate effects here that it was necessary to do something in relation to. Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen has done perfectly well for the changes that the plural finds it necessary today to propose. The centre party fully supports the current proposal for a decision. Let me just underline in addition, as I come from a state that will directly mark the changes that we are discussing today: the offshore industry seems to have to go to the step of permitting people this year, but has hopes for brighter prospects for next year. It's for Rogaland, it's for Hordaland, it's for Nord-Trøndelag. They've asked for a two-part commitment here. They point to the law that is being amended today, and they point to the potential of labour market measures, which must lie there in order for the yard to be able to secure a unique competence for use again next year. So now we get this piece – the piece of legislation – in place today, and we get back in relation to labour market measures in the revised national budget. I am very pleased that the Progress Party today is involved in this change – the more surprised they are that they are not doing the same in the revised national budget. We'll have that debate next Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e666	I guess it's a good rule that you smile and say the least in a matter where you might not get what you want. Nevertheless, let me just say first of all that I am not happy with the content of this proposal. I think it's unfortunate, first of all, with special rules for some groups, and I think, in general, it's unfortunate with schemes that encourage businesses not to use labour all year round, or that bind people into businesses that can't provide them with proper employment opportunities all year round. And I'm very concerned about a very correct characteristic that Upbebøen Hansen used: this is so difficult for businesses that have planned their business on the basis of the previous legislation. The purpose of the permitting scheme is not for companies to plan their activities on the basis of this legislation, and it illustrates to the extent that I believe is the basic problem of the whole case. Having said that, I think it is very gratifying that the bill has not had a retrospective effect – it would create very big problems for Aetat. I want to make it clear that the law is now in place, it is practical for Aetat, and if it is to be adopted, we will without delay punish the law, so that it can come into force as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to thank the representative Upbeøen Hansen for the proposal to define the asphalt industry. We are happy to take that proposal further with us if the law is to be passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e673	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e677	I'm going to promise not to use 3 minutes once. I may agree with the Council of State that sometimes the wording may be poorly qualified in a hectic interview before the holiday. But I'm very happy that the Council of State accepts the bill the way he did. We are not aware that some groups have special rules when it comes to permitting rules, and I am thinking about within the fish processing industry, among others. But what matters to the plural here is not whether the laws should have retroactive force or not. What is important is that the laws are put into effect immediately, that is, once no part of the law has been passed, and that the Council of State then makes an effort to implement the law immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e682	As I said, the Council of State and the Government will make it possible for the law to be sanctioned and thus put into practice as soon as practicable. But it is now the King who must punish it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e687	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 524]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e703	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following comments from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e712	This is the first time I am allowed to present a case from the Chair as the rapporteur on the matter, and I think that is really a bit of a joke! I thought I would start with the background of the law we now have to deal with. So it's about the so-called ten percent rule, and I'm going to explain to you that the ten percent rule gives the public right to buy up to 10 pst. of flats in housing laws and communities to provide housing to people who are struggling on the housing market. Then it gives the housing law the right to require established cooperation committees with the public where they wish. The reason for the introduction of this 10% rule was two-fold. The first was that you had to get several non-commercial rental properties. The second was that people who had problems in the housing market should be better integrated into living quarters and good living environments. These were two good arguments. Four counter-arguments were also raised. One was that you risked getting damaged living environments; there were many settlements that were concerned about it. There were also many who were skeptical that the municipalities would not follow up the cooperation with the housing construction laws and housing laws in a good enough way. The stand-alone housing laws and communities would also not have the same right to require cooperation with the municipality as the housing law would have. The fourth, and one important point, was that it would not lead to a single new dwelling being built, and that would mean that the housing allowances would go to buy used apartments instead of building new ones. We have had consultations on this matter, and after the hearings it became quite clear that both parties were right in relation to the 10% rule. First of all, the municipality was right that we had more and better opportunities to obtain housing for the economically disadvantaged, and we had become better at putting families of children into good living conditions. But on the other hand, housing cooperatives and homeowners have got right in parts of their scepticism. There is a very big difference between how municipalities follow up on the different housing laws around. Many said that the municipalities are poor to follow up and are not willing to cooperate with, among other things. stand-alone housing laws, which feel that they meet the wall when they address the municipality if they have problems with tenants. They are referred to the judiciary, with the increased costs it entails. The last thing this rule has done is build too few rental homes. [[The President clubs.]] President! I just want to say that the president gave me 3 minutes and not 5 minutes when we started.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e727	I'm sorry! The representative is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e730	It's okay, but then I have a little bit more time. When the government wanted to extend this to non-governmental organisations and commercial actors, the mood for this was clearly negative among all of us at the hearing, because everyone was interested in getting better contact with serious actors. And it's just the serious actors, like, for example. The Church's Bymission and the Salvation Army, the Council of State is pushing ahead when she says that there is a need to open up the door to also private actors in this market. But everyone was very clear that they did not want unprofessional players into the market. They did not want commercial actors – as we do, among other things. sees the host market in large cities, with people who do not provide proper accounts, and people who speculate in minimizing the costs of following up residents living in housing camps – for fear that this could lead to poor living conditions and a powdering of the municipal responsibility for providing housing to people. I have to say, I am quite shocked that the Council of State nevertheless believes that there is a need for a law that opens up to drop commercial players into this market, when everyone is so clarifyingly clear. If this is the case, why can't the Council of State just open up to it, as proposed by the majority of the Committee? If the Council of State on Death and Life will have commercial actors, and on death and life will have them in at a later date, she can rather promote that proposal then and be downgraded now. Now there's reason to doubt the intentions of the Council of State in this context, and I think we don't see the consequences of what we're doing, in relation to securing both good living environments and more rental homes for people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e739	The next speaker is Signe Eye. I'll make sure she gets a speaking time of up to 5 minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e742	The working party agrees that it is absolutely necessary to provide for more dwellings for the 6 200 people without housing, and for those with special difficulties in finding a dwelling. The Workers’ Party also agrees that non-governmental organisations, such as the Salvation Army and the Church’s City Mission, must be given the opportunity to acquire housing within the current ten percent rule. We mean, among other things: that these organisations are doing a very good job. We need them very much, and we need to remove the obstacles that are in the way of non-governmental organisations having the opportunity to acquire suitable apartments in housing camps or owner-parties. The working party believes that the use of a locust should be discontinued. We believe that the hostel at best is a short-term, uncertain and poor offer, and not least very expensive. For anything other than completely acute, short-term problems, it will be both better and cheaper with a regular housing offer. The cost of hosting is very high per year. month, and often this is a miserable and unworthy little room. A good housing offer in ordinary housing stock, based on today's instrument of 60 pst. grants and housing aid will often be available within a framework of approximately NOK 3000 per year. months. By abolishing the hostels and offering such solutions, municipalities will also release significant financial resources that can benefit the individual instead. Using this money for the follow-up of the individual, which can make it easier to establish a common connection to housing, work and meaningful social life, must be a much better and more sensible way of spending money. But if we are to get it done, the House Bank must have funds for grants and loans. And then it's not useful to cut down on the bank's loan framework so that they're used up before the summer, or that the grants can only be used for a single group, for example. to refugees, as the situation is at present, and as the Government considers satisfactory, after the statements to the Minister of State for Radio today early, that the money now available is only enough to provide housing for refugees. We think it is completely unworthy to set such weak groups up against each other. The Labour Party will build 3 000 non-commercial dwellings per year for young people and economically disadvantaged people, including: the 6 200 homeless and other disadvantaged people have a place to live. In one place, the Labour Party disagrees with the majority position. These parties – the Christian People’s Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party – will grant private rights to purchase and rent out up to 10 pst. of the dwellings in housing laws of the homeless and other disadvantaged persons, if they have an agreement with the municipality. We believe that there should be no access for other private actors, i.e. actors which do not have a non-commercial purpose, actors whose aim is only to maximise profits. The working party is very afraid that what is now adopted can lead to unprofessional housing speculators taking advantage of the situation in municipalities that are putting away the operation of social housing to private use. This may lead to the establishment of uncontrollable and uncontrolled housing conditions in housing camps and cohabitations. We fear a situation in which unprofessional operators are allowed to purchase dwellings and to operate rental activities for a heavily charged clientele on a purely commercial basis, and that that is what will happen. The Labour Party believes that there is also a risk that, if private households are to provide housing for disadvantaged people, there will be a concentration of problems in areas where prices are low. It will be in those strata that are the most heavily burdened from before and that will have an even greater share of the problems in the future. It is very important that we get in here actors who are serious and who can master any situation. It is very important that we do not now adopt a law that breeds well-functioning living environments. That's what the Workers' Party is afraid of will be the consequences of the decisions that seem to be taken here today. We think that is very sad and regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e759	This proposal proposes to amend the law on housing law and the law on ownership with a view to facilitating the provision of more housing for the homeless and other disadvantaged. It is natural here to emphasise the point that under the Social Services Act, municipalities have a special responsibility to provide temporary housing for the homeless and other disadvantaged. In order to make it easier for municipalities to provide temporary housing in line with the requirements of the Social Services Act and to facilitate the spread of the housing of disadvantaged persons, the Housing Law and the Ownership Section Act now open up the possibility for municipalities and other public bodies to purchase up to 10 pst. of the apartments of housing law and housing law. For the right, it is a central point that such a ten percent rule is currently being developed, private actors, such as The Salvation Army and the Church City Commission, do not purchase dwellings contrary to any statutes or other provisions of the Housing Association. In addition, the Borechtslagsgesetz has rules on subletting, which impedes the purchase of such private operators. If private operators are to be more involved in providing more housing to disadvantaged people, it is desirable that these too should be given a certain opportunity to apply the 10% rule. Only private actors enter into a cooperation agreement with a municipality, county or state to provide housing for disadvantaged people, who are given this right to apply the 10% rule. Through cooperation agreements, municipalities, counties and the State shall have control over who is given the opportunity to apply the 10% rule, while allowing municipalities, counties and the State to lay down conditions for the conclusion of such cooperation agreements. These conditions may, for example: relate to the award criteria for dwellings, or to provisions that the actors concerned should not exercise the right to purchase dwellings in areas with poor living conditions or in areas where the target audience is already overrepresented. Moreover, the Government has emphasised in the proposition the importance of the local authorities, the counties and the state being careful in their selection of partners and only concluding agreements with serious actors. On this basis, I allow myself to promote the proposal of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. This proposal will be able to deal with the issues I have mentioned here. In conclusion, I just want to comment on all the criticisms that have emerged from the pulpit in this matter, not least from the Labour Party. But also in this area, the Labour Party shows that they have dilemmas. The working party has no more money in the revised national budget in this area. They're critical, but they're not able to solve or deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e774	Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e777	On behalf of the Progress Party, I will just briefly explain why we are joining this proposal. I just want to repeat that this bill proposes to extend the scope of those who can buy shares in housing law and ownership alliances within this so-called ten percent rule. So the purpose of expanding the range of buyers is to get more homes for people who are disadvantaged and homeless, but this is not about extending the 10% rate. As today's rules are, only state, state and municipality have the right to purchase up to 10 pst. So now we're going to have companies, foundations or other things. private persons who have entered into an agreement with the State, county or municipality to provide housing for disadvantaged persons could acquire housing within the 10% rule. The Progress Party has chosen to endorse this proposal, even though we are against that rule. I will not accept or accept the ten percent rule today, but I would like to mention briefly that the Progress Party is in line with the ten percent rule, among other things. because it can destroy the entire living environment in some places and represents an excessive intervention in the right of self-determination of the housing laws and the right of residents themselves to provide security and security in their living environment. In any case, it is in my view that if we are to have such a system working properly, the municipalities have to be more efficient in several places to follow up their responsibilities so that we do not get the problems that we have seen in some places in some housing laws today in connection with the 10% rule. However, the Party considers the present changes to be entirely marginal and does not regard it as a decisive or important point to restrict the circle of those who can acquire for the purposes in question within the so-called 10% rule. The proposal does not change the substance of this rule itself, and it is therefore of little importance if the law is now also made equal for private and public, says the Progress Party. I have no further comments in this context and I refer to the view of the Progress Party when the law was last amended in 1998. I recommend that the Advance Party vote in favour of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e794	We have approx. Six thousand homeless people in this country. It's really scandalous in the kingdom, called Norway. The aim of this proposal we are now discussing is to facilitate housing for the homeless, including those who are very weak in this context. The case handler has provided an excellent state report, and has done well for the possibilities under the laws as they are. What's the change is that private actors, like the Salvation Army, the Church's City Mission, and I want to add one more example, the Gospel Centres, can use the same rules as the public to get housing for the disadvantaged. There is no doubt that there are non-profits and fire companies that are making a decisive effort for those who have the worst out there. Even if we insist that the public has and will be responsible for getting help without housing, we are dependent on the private actors. The majority and the minority are distinguished in the question of whether the 10% rule should only apply to non-profit and humanitarian organisations, or whether companies should also be entitled to such rights. Now non-profit organizations can also organize themselves as companies if they separate activities, which could be positive and natural just in such a case. But the Christian People's Party is not afraid that commercial sharks will come into this market. That's why we're not afraid that companies will get the same rights as their founders or organizations. First of all, the premise is that one has a cooperation agreement with the public. The user will not get such cooperation agreements, and I don't think they will get it either. This is actually a declaration of trust to the municipalities. Secondly, I can think of better ways to spend money than renting apartments to poor people and people without housing. What I hope for is that those who are already stretching a helping hand out to the needy, and giving and giving, food and bed and shower, as well as a hand to hold, to those who need it the most, will now have the opportunity to help more people in a better way – also to get a place to live. We have to give these organizations, because it's mostly organizations, maximum good conditions. It makes society feel, and it benefits the homeless. I recommend the proposals of the minority, in addition to items B – Romantic I and II – when it comes up in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e812	Having a dwelling is fundamentally important to each one of us as a starting point for organizing own lives. The centre party wants a stronger public commitment to ensure more than one housing. It applies both to the framework of the House Bank, to housing allowances and to better bus pay arrangements, and to the government's obligation to be willing to make available some of its plots. We carry out a separate housing package in the revised national budget. We are very concerned about the lack of commitment that the Government is showing for the time being, not least when it relates to the important role that the House Bank should have, and how necessary it is that the House Bank has a loan framework and a willingness to pass on. So I want to commend the initiative taken by the Government in this matter. I think it's a constructive contribution to getting more people who have difficulty finding a place to live. A possibility that municipalities today have to buy into a barrage is now also open to others. We know that many of the municipalities already have a good and close collaboration with actors like the Salvation Army and the Church's Bymission to ensure that more people not only have a place to live, but also have some experience that comes with a difficult everyday life. We are some of the people that organizations and foundations of this kind through the law itself have the possibility to use the 10% rule. Now the case spokespersons have done quite well for the experience with the ten percent rule so far, and he has also done some good for what is at the root of the plurality of his proposals today, from the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party. I find it strange that the Council of State and the Government Party and the Advancement Party in this way, as it now appears in the proposals that are under way, pushes themselves on ideal, humanitarian organisations and foundations, but in reality there is a much larger opening. I would ask the Council of State to follow closely the practice that is now being established, in line with what the Committee has asked for. It is important to follow at all times if the amendment to the law that is being passed today gives bad results. It is most important to follow up on the simple and tidy practice of legislative changes, both in relation to the conditions under which a cooperation agreement is to be concluded and in relation to the conditions under which the unit-holder is to be obliged to obtain housing for disabled persons. And then I want to focus on a point in the setting, point 2.5, where the central part and SV now point to a page that is not drawn up in the proposition, but that I want the council to see more closely. I hope she accepts this and will follow up on her. It goes on, as the law is today in the case of barricades, that the board can order the heirs of the estate to sell the dwelling within six months of the order being given. Conversion is necessary for a certain period of time for the heirs after a death, but it is important at a time when housing is so scarce, to adopt a code that allows the dwelling to be used again. And we ask the Council of State to evaluate the six-month rule that is today, and look at it for example. you can cut down to two months.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e832	As mentioned earlier in the debate, it is now about 6 000 non-residents in the country. We can never be 100 pst. these figures are safe, but there are also other difficulties in the housing market. In my opinion, it is unacceptable that we have it this way in Norway, and I believe that all parties in the Stortinget agree. There has also been broad agreement through the treatment we have had in the past, that it is the municipalities that have primary responsibility to provide satisfactory housing for these people. However, following the government’s assessment, it is important that others also be involved in the work of providing housing for them. The Church's Bymission and the Salvation Army are already engaged in such work, and both organizations have signaled their willingness to assume greater responsibility in this context. We want to contribute to such a development, and we have therefore proposed legislative changes to facilitate it. I am pleased that, in the context of this enlargement, it is a unanimous municipal committee that ends up with the principle of expanding the circuit. However, I see that there is a disagreement about how the boundary of the circuit should be. All lots agree that it shall not be free from anyone to avail themselves of the rule. But the government parties, with the accession of the Progress Party, support what the Government has proposed in assessing who should be given the opportunity to apply the rule. My assessment is that the Government's proposal is more flexible by allowing others to make use of the provision, if – and I say if – the municipality wants to facilitate this. The important thing here is not that we have created a rule of law that in itself makes it up to the municipality, county or state, that is the partner, to decide who they work with. There is no transparency that commercial companies operating a host company can buy and operate without a control and cooperation with local authorities and counties. In fact, I believe that we should trust the municipality's discretion. It is the responsibility of the municipality, according to social legislation, to provide an offer to those who are disadvantaged in terms of housing. So I see the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's proposal as a kind of detailed management and mistrust of the local authorities' ability to solve this. I'm just going to take note of that. Now it's the way that mountain people tend to use big words, in that way also the case rapporteur. I think "shaked" was a strong word to use about the Government's proposal, when the Government's proposal is based on the fact that a second term in the government is actually going to be the ones that control this, namely municipalities and counties. The starting point here is that there should be a cooperation agreement with the public in order to make use of it. I have also noticed that the Municipal Committee unanimously asks the Government to ensure that conditions are laid down for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between a legal person and the municipality, and that the legal person must sell the relevant share or ownership section if the housing is no longer to be used for the purpose. In addition, the Committee calls on the Government to consider proposals to strengthen cooperation between settlements, communities and municipalities in order to ensure good living conditions. I have noted these issues and will later come back to how best to implement them. I want to draw attention to the fact that we have done some research work. We have had studies on how the cooperation agreements, which Stortinget called for when we introduced the 10% rule, have worked. That's a little bit of a cross-sectional answer from NBBL. And then you've actually given positive feedback. But single-dwelling laws have given negative feedback on that. We thought that in connection with this proposition it had not been long enough for us to come back with a main conclusion on how the cooperation committees work, but have been very aware that this is something that the Storting in the last period thought was an important premise for having at all a ten percent rule, and that we must therefore follow up and make sure that these cooperation committees actually work. I would also like to stress that it is the municipalities that have social responsibility for follow-up to people who need housing and that it does not fall out even if other actors contribute to providing housing for the target population. The ten percent rule was part of the action against homelessness, which is a close cooperation project between the state and the municipalities. So the social responsibility for follow-up is that of the municipality, no matter who had to carry it out. The municipality is responsible for the quality of this work. The Committee therefore considers that all residents of dwellings covered by this amendment must be able to receive housing support if they are eligible for income or expenditure. This issue will have an economic impact on the state. We will assess this in budgetary terms in relation to how we will organise and prioritise housing support in the years to come. With regard to the relationship that the representative of the Central Party Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa raised, I would like to take a closer look at this in relation to the fact that we are now working on the further development of a completely new set of legislation relating to housing law. Then there will be an opportunity to assess that theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e860	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e863	First, a remark to the representative Holmberg: If the representative believes that the Workers' Party does not grant more money to the House Bank in the revised national budget, I recommend taking a look at the adjustment. It is not often that the Workers’ Party agrees with the Landers’ Association of the Houseowners, an organization that primarily takes care of the interests of the houseowners. But in this case, we have the same fear that what a majority here today will adopt could destroy good living environments. To give individuals who run on a commercial basis, for the purpose of making the most money, the right to buy and rent out up to 10 pst. of the dwellings of a law-enforcement team of the homeless and other disadvantaged, the Workers' Party is in complete disagreement. We believe that this can result in more, not fewer, hospital-like housing offers. Everyone who was at the hearing agreed that this was going too far. The Christian People's Party says we don't trust the municipalities. Well, the Workers' Party has confidence in the municipalities. But it is also the case that today it is the municipalities that pay for the shelters we have. Most tenants today have contracts with municipalities, just as they are now charged. It is these agreements that are intended to guarantee that there will not be unprofessional actors entering into the areas for which we are now opening up. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what is it that is adopted here today, which can prevent unprofessional private operators from buying into a housing law, so that it becomes a kind of hostel? And so there will be more, not fewer hosts, which we all agree on should be abolished.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e874	Running a shelter in a normal dwelling will require a change in use of the dwelling, as I know the Planning and Building Act. There is nothing in this law that suggests that you can convert what is a home for a family or a person, into short-term rentals and a 24-hour offer to someone. It's about something completely different. We have many other legal rules that will prevent this from becoming a hub, a law that in that case will require, according to my concepts, a change in use, because it would be an activity change, you no longer use the housing of a single family or a single person. So to the question of the attitude of the Workers' Party. The Workers' Party representative Signe Eye made a statement criticising the use of the housing allowance. In the proposals for housing grants in the revised national budget, there is not one more krona. It has not been long since I met in the Questionnaire and was attacked because I had too little money for housing allowances for refugees. Then I had really hoped that the Workers' Party, when they don't have more money, won't jump at the first opportunity to criticize that we spend too much money on refugees and too little on youth homes. SV has more money for this measure, that's okay. I see that they want to give more priority to youth. But we have to be careful about what this debate has evolved into today, so this will not be an attack on spending money on refugee housing and the settlement of refugees. There have been trends during the day that it has shaped the debate, and then we have a big problem with this. Yes, there is more money for the loan scheme for the House Bank. On these projects in the House Bank, there is money. We have said that we need to make sure, and we have said that we will also come back to priority groups if the limits are not kept, but the money is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e885	I'll be so humble that I tell the council that she has an improper point here. It sounds a little strange that I do not trust that the municipalities can make proper decisions in relation to this. Basically, the Council of State has a point there, but the world of reality should know the Council of State. The real world is that when municipalities get their economy tightened up, they get less opportunity to pursue a proper social housing policy. The municipalities call out to the council and say, "We need more money for housing grants, so that we can build more rental homes, not just for refugees, but also for young people." The municipalities want to build housing for both groups. The municipal minister last sat on TV on Monday 2 and discussed with, among others, me, and the municipal minister said we're giving priority to youth. So it turns out that the government doesn't. There is not enough funding to make it a priority for young people. Then the municipal minister can't come to Stortinget and say that now we have to be careful so that we don't sort of cross the line in relation to refugees. I fully agree that priority should be given to refugees. I just point out that the consequence of that is too little money for young people, and that that pot should be bigger. The Council of State should have fought for that. When the council doesn't fight to get that post bigger, it doesn't make sure that there are more grants for rental homes, it means that the municipalities say: well, we can't solve this problem ourselves. It is our responsibility, because we have been given that responsibility, but we cannot solve this problem ourselves. Private operators, including commercial operators, then stand ready to step into the market with their equity and purchase housing properties. When you see what offer the Municipality of Oslo and other large municipalities have been willing to offer their inhabitants – there have been offers of wretched accommodation that they have been willing to buy from private – I find it strange that not the Council of State, just a little neighbor, is worried about how this can be compared to these dwellings we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e892	Last Monday, Heikki Holmå and I discussed the loan framework for the Husbank, and I said that we are giving priority to young people and youth measures within the loan framework in the House Bank, and we are doing so. We don't give priority to ordinary, ordinary housing, but we give priority to the loan framework. At the housing grant, there has been a clear priority, which I have actually seen as the priority that Stortinget has given over the year. We're going to have money for the homeless project, the ones we're really discussing here. And there's still money for this part. Then we're going to have to get to the disadvantaged, what's going on getting them into owner-occupied homes, and then we've said that we're going to get housing for refugees and young people on the rental side, but refugees have been given priority over youth. And I can well justify why I do it, and why I think it's right to give priority to refugees in front of young people. A refugee who comes to this country needs a place to live, has no network, no reference, stands on a bar and needs help to start an integration run. There is discrimination in the housing market which makes it most difficult for them. For the general construction of youth rentals, very many of them are not necessarily difficult; the only thing is that they are young. They actually have a smaller need for government than the other groups. However, among the priorities of housing grants, which are the half we spend helping people into a more sustainable housing situation, it is also young people, young people who are both young and disadvantaged, and who will have a lasting problem in the housing market – young people who are disabled and other groups who have been outside over time. That is why I would still like to say that this government is giving priority to youth. We give priority within the loan framework we have, by giving money to projects aimed at young people, and we give priority to young people in rental housing. But we have some groups that are generally weaker in the housing market within the framework we have. Then SV has a larger frame than what we have, that's okay. But let me just say one word about hospitality. I actually have to say that I want to fame what, for example. Oslo Municipality has done in terms of quality development and contracts, and in terms of improving them. Over the last four years, there has been a sharp improvement in the use of the short-term places they have and their demands, so much so that the Minister of Social Affairs has warned that they come with their own supervisor, where Oslo is just used as an example for the quality agreements made in relation to hostels.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e901	Where, in the view of the Labour Party, the State Council makes a fundamental mistake, it is in the assessment that only specific measures are relevant for young people. The most important thing for young people is an increase in housing to reduce the pressure on prices. It will be the most important thing for all groups, including young people. But in addition, specific measures are needed. That is why there is every reason to take seriously the signals we have heard through NRK shipments today, that young people do not have sufficient access to rental homes. This is one of the reasons why the Workers' Party has first proposed an increase in the lending framework; secondly, it has proposed a significantly stronger expansion of rental dwellings; and thirdly, it has proposed a significantly stronger expansion of housing measures for economically disadvantaged people. Then I record that the Council of State is concerned that refugees and young people are facing each other. I'm worried about that, too. The problem here is that if you do not have schemes to meet your housing needs, that kind of contradiction could arise. And when the Council of State says that youth is not such a disadvantaged group, such a priority group, as the Council of State has stated on radio today, I'm worried that that kind of contradiction is getting stronger. Therefore, it is important to implement housing measures that are necessary for the youth groups. I refer here to an excellent proposal that has been included for consideration in this House, Document No. 8:141 for 2001–02, which addresses both the issue of housing, youth housing and financial difficulties, and the question of accommodation. The most serious cross-section of thought is that paying for places at the hostel costs significantly more than if the municipalities had built up their own housing facilities for the economically disadvantaged, using 60 pst. in the grant scheme to obtain it and combined it with housing aid. A much cheaper system would then have been introduced, while at the same time more attention could be paid to social follow-up. That must be the ambition. Then I must also be allowed to refresh the representative Holmberg's memory, the Workers' Party has proposals both on housing support and on increased lending frameworks in the processing of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e912	No matter how much the Workers' Party is talking, they do not get away with the fact that they do not have more money on the housing allowance. They have more on housing support, they have more money in housing construction. But it is housing that will focus on general housing, and not on targeted measures for young people. The working party tries to ride two horses. I think it's interesting to remember the debate that the Control Committee had here a month ago related to what the Workers' Party had responded to in the government about a stepping-up plan for youth housing. There they have replied in the budget in the autumn that no, it did not come with the government, it was part of the budgetary procedure. But now the opposition has chosen to make a proposal that requires such a stepping-up plan. The interesting thing is, of course, that the main difference that has happened here is that the Workers' Party has gone into opposition, and then they go back and promote the proposals they didn't have before, regardless of the budgetary situation or regardless of whether it's in the budget. With regard to the hospital, I fully agree with the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen that it is important that we do not use the hospital. Some day-nighting it will be, I don't think we can get away from in social distress, but there should be higher quality of what is, and it shouldn't be a lasting offer to users. That's why we have a project and we're working on a project called "Project homeless". And as I say, it's priority, it's money for it, and we're working on quality development in collaboration with the municipalities that are involved in the project. That's what's the main priority. So to the question of refugees and youth. Yes, as long as we have a framework that needs to be kept, and we have a certain need, there will be competition between different types of projects. But an important part of this is that we have never given more money to rental homes in the municipalities than what we do in the revised national budget now. After all, the housing currently used for refugees will be available to municipalities when the flows occur gradually, including for example: to young people. That means that we help to increase the amount of rentals over time, even in municipal ownership, and that will also help young people. Young people do not think I need special measures in themselves, if they are not also in a difficult situation, other than that which is linked to being able to gain easier access to the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e923	The most important contribution to securing more than one dwelling is, of course, the fact that every year a certain amount of housing of some standard comes into the market, making it possible for people to live. There's no semblance of self, and there's not any succession of self with the government we now have, which makes sure that the very bank that more than anyone else sets up in relation to new dwellings of nocturnal standards on the market, that is, the House Bank, does not have the necessary framework. It is fine that the Council of State indicates that young people are given priority in the House Bank, but it is a fact that the House Bank, with the applications it has received this year, has already used up the framework and asked for a larger framework. So to the proposal that we are dealing with today. I see it primarily as a possibility. Here are new possibilities. There are several actors here, and for our part we will limit it to ideal and humanitarian foundations. There are several actors who have the ability to purchase in proportion to the 10% rule. But then the council is busy stressing that the municipalities still have a role to play. I thought it was very good, because it is clear that there will be no less demanding for the municipalities, if they agree to cooperation agreements in the follow-up that are necessary in relation to those with difficulty. And it goes much further, as the Council of State itself said, than to the 6,000 homeless, because there are far more people who need special follow-up in bowing. Do you think the Council of State it is harmonizing with strengthened tasks for the municipalities and the economy it itself has given to the municipalities, where she has said they must cut off the welfare supply next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e933	The reason why we introduce our own big city grant – and as I have understood from the agreement concluded between the government parties and the Progress Party on the Stortinget about it – will be extended to several of the cities included in the project "Residenceless" – has, among other things. where problems of homelessness are greater due to drug use/psychiatry problems, there is a greater obligation to be able to participate in self-help. This has been our reason for doing the distortion of money within the total economy that goes to the local government sector. I agree with everyone who says that the most important contribution to youth – which is not really the topic we are discussing in today's position – is to keep housing high. But I disagree that the only and most important instrument to keep it high is that we should contribute in relation to the loan framework for the House Bank. I think the most important thing we do is to ensure stability around buying and building homes, and then the interest rate and the whole of fiscal policy is the second most important thing. A party that last year thought that the rule of action was important, but that has now redefined the rule of action as a flexible rule of action, and that believes that we should spend even more money in a situation where we have a strenuous economy and a great deal of pressure, will thus set up interest rates in the Norwegian housing market. It would do more to prevent us from getting new homes. In my opinion, the central party's policy would be an attack on maintaining a high level of housing. But now let me go to the theme of the setting that we're really discussing today. When we say that we want to rationalize this, and that the municipalities are the ones who will decide who they have cooperation agreements with, it is a confidence statement that the municipalities are able to do this job. It is also because we believe that there may be some actors around that can make a positive contribution, which we do not have the overview of. Therefore, it would be foolish to make a rule of law that is too limited, as long as it is in any case not free for people to go in and buy more than one share in a housing law, if they do not have a separate agreement with the municipality. This agreement is about the rationale, namely that these are measures against homelessness and better action plans for people with problems in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e944	Since the Council of State says that what we are debating now is not part of the matter, I would just like to point out the position, where a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre mean this – and here we are talking about the proposal – ‘do not involve smaller transfers from the state in order to solve the problems the municipalities are responsible for solving. In the opinion of the majority, this may... be regarded as a public discharge’. That's one element. It's very, very important for us to stress, because the council says one thing. She says, "There has never been more money in housing grants." Then I wonder if the council understands the scope of what she says. There are two things that have led to us in this situation. One is that when the prices of housing and the prices of secondary sales of dwellings have tripled, e.g. in Oslo, in the last ten years, it is clear that this also means that the housing allowance, which is necessary in order to be able to build more dwellings, must increase quite well. The housing offer, too, in order to be able to buy apartments for people, needs to increase quite well in order to match the previous housing allowance. The second is: does not the Council see that in many areas there has also become a greater need for housing, including housing. to refugees we're talking about, and to others? In the past, municipalities were able to take this away from the existing rental market, but they are no longer able to do so. They need new homes. In my opinion, that is proof that the Council of State has bombed at one point. The point is that if you run up the prices in the housing market, they mean 0.5 pst. or 1 pst. interest rates, which the Council of State considered to be in some way the most important, are nothing compared to what the price increase means for the individual, both in the rental market and in the own market. This leads to more people falling outside, and it seems to me that the Council of State has not fully understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e953	To the last point, I just think I'm going to point out what happened in the housing market in the summer of 1998, relative to that. At the moment when there was uncertainty about how interest rates would develop, and that step drastically, prices also fell drastically, because it has something to do with how much people can afford to pay. But the construction costs were the same, and what happened then? A number of projects stopped. You don't think you're going to get started, and there was a fall in the housing structure in the next quarter. In other words, the housing market is relatively easy to follow. That's what people dare, and what security you have for the economy in the future, is one of the key assumptions for what's going on. So for the analysis of why there is more use of housing allowances. The analysis that Heikki Holmås has here, that it's just the housing allowance, is not right. I will not underestimate the fact that more money is paid out because the prices go up. However, when the Bondevik I government’s housing report was handled here in Stortinget, it was decided to encourage all municipalities to make housing-social action plans. What has happened is that very many municipalities that previously did not have housing social action plans have now designed it. This means that the demand for housing grants is increasing not only in terms of building rentals, but also because municipalities have a combination of instruments to ensure permanent entry of disadvantaged people into the housing market. Therefore, the part of the housing allowance that is justified by what we provide to the municipalities for the housing social action plans is also increasing, and is justified in helping disadvantaged people. That's very good. It shows that the idea of making the municipalities responsible for social responsibility in the area of housing has actually worked. Therefore, I also believe that with the amendment of the law we are making here, the municipalities will bear the mark that when they have responsibility, they also choose the responsibility. They're the ones who would notice the pressure if they didn't do it in relation to their voters. The housing laws are, after all, a part of the individual municipalities, so they will clearly be told back if they have chosen to use unprofessional partners. I also think that it is part of the responsibility that one should have in the municipality, and that perhaps gives closeness to the municipal decisions in a way other than that we prevent it by detailing who the municipalities can actually cooperate with, as the majority of the committee, the minority of the Stortinget, wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e964	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 525]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e982	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e991	It is that we are going to have one electoral law in Norway that covers all three elections, but for practical reasons it has become so that we are now dealing with the part of the law relating to municipal elections and elections to the county council, and then we take the decision for the fall. It has been through a relatively long period of time that electoral participation, particularly in municipal elections, has fallen. An electoral committee was set up for, among others: to consider whether the scheme could contribute to increasing the interest in electoral participation, and to see if it was possible to make certain simplifications in the law. The Electoral Commission gave its investigation, NOU 2001:3, which was given the ringing name ‘Choosers, Elections, Chosen’, and through hearings and the work to be done, later on in Ot.prp. No 45. This legislative proposal now available gives the election law a purpose clause for the first time: ‘The purpose of the law is to facilitate the situation in order to enable citizens in free, direct and secret elections to choose their representatives for the Grand Duchy, county councils and local councils.’ This is, of course, the basic agreement in this Chamber. That's why there's not much of a disagreement between the different parties about what's now being presented. What has been discussed in particular, both within the Committee, at hearings and at all in advance of this case, is the possibility for voters to influence the choice of persons, i.e. which of the candidates to be selected. Here there are some cross-cutting interests and needs. The parties need their part to secure part of their candidates in order to be able to carry out the central tasks, for example to enter as rapporteur in a county or in a county. Then you need some willing candidates who have experience and prerequisites to accomplish these tasks. On the other hand, we have the very clear, clear and legitimate needs and demands of the voters to participate and decide who to choose. The Committee has come to the conclusion, after some discussion back and forth on the subject of pre-cumulation, and we agree that the size of local councils should be based on the number of parties allowed to pre-cumulate. We agree on a model for this, allowing one to pre-cumulate four candidates in municipalities with 11–23 members of the local council, six candidates in municipalities with 25–53 members of the local council, and ten in municipalities with more than 55 representatives of the local council. It is no longer intended to be able to include candidates on the list of elections. This means that when that possibility is gone, it is no longer reasonable that the pre-cumulated can hold 100 pst. personal plugin. That is why we are following the proposal that it should be reduced to 25 pst. The alternative would be that the pre-cumulated ones would not be influenced by the voters at all. So for this with the county election, where you now suggest that the voters have an opportunity to influence the personal choice. 8 pst., suggests the Committee, and follows here the Government – if 8 pst. the selectors make the same change to the list of selections, then turn it on. This has a consequence on the other side of what is now being changed in this law, and that is the arrangement for the distribution of the county elections. Where the representatives are distributed after the elections, there has been a system of equalisation mandates for those municipalities that have not entered the county council. The majority of this will propose the removal of this scheme. As a result, a large number of smaller municipalities in Norway are unlikely to get representatives into the county councils. Then you have to discuss how important it is or how serious it is. We have a system of services that will take care of a wide range of issues and tasks relating to municipalities. If we now get an arrangement where some municipalities don't have representatives in these elected bodies, it becomes a slightly special model, I would believe for my part. The minority in this hall is going in order for us to maintain this arrangement. This eight-percent rule system will enable larger municipalities to bring in their own representatives, representatives from the large municipalities in the county to a greater extent than in the past, while the small municipalities have less opportunity to use this cumulation to obtain their representatives. We suggest that the municipalities should again be responsible for the prior polling. There are some people who have asked why you do not continue with the post offices etc. It is up to the municipalities to decide for themselves how they will carry out this prior polling, but the municipalities are responsible for it. The majority here suggest that there is no reintroduction of the withdrawal period. Once the vote has been taken as a preliminary vote to the forthcoming elections, it has been chosen and the majority proposes that there should be no reintroduction of the withdrawal period here. The majority of the Committee initially wanted to maintain the current order of operations. However, one does not want this to have the consequence that the method used, Sainte-Laguë's method, cannot be used in the local government elections. Whether it is possible to combine these two proposals, i.e. to maintain the Sainte-Laguë method while maintaining the rudder system, needs to be further investigated by the department. The Committee has therefore put forward proposals to maintain the original design of the proposed scheme and the approach of Sainte-Lagüe at the local government elections. The Committee will come back to the question of slingders in the subsequent examination of the rest of the electoral law, i.e. to the autumn. Then I will also be allowed to point to a correction in the setting on page 20 under the comments of the Committee, in the second and third lines. In both of these lines, the word ‘not’ shall be removed. Finally, I will be allowed to address the proposals on which the Labour Party is represented as the proposer or as the co-rapporteur, and will draw particular attention to proposal No. 7, promoted on behalf of the entire Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1029	Kjell Engebretsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1032	The government's odelstingsproposition deals with proposals for a new law on elections, both for magnification, for county councils and for local government. In isolation, of course, it would have been ideal to deal with the entire legislative proposal together — the legislation for the election of majority voting, for the county elections and for the local government elections. However, for reasons of time, the Committee found it necessary to divide the discussion of the matter into two parts, by examining the legislation relating to local elections now and by examining the majority voting legislation at a later stage. If the committee had not completed the examination of the legislation relating to local elections now, the legislative changes could not come into force until the local elections in 2007. It would, after all, be very unsatisfactory if legislative changes adopted in the autumn of 2002 could not come into force before the election five years later. That is why it has been a great deal to do for the Control and Constitutional Committee to ensure that these issues could be addressed by the Stortinge in the spring session. However, it is my hope that the decisions that come out of today’s legal process will also lead to the conclusions that the Storting will draw later when dealing with the legislation relating to the Grand Election Scheme – in areas where there may be transfer value. This applies in particular to the principles of personal choice. The Government's proposal suggests that voters should be given greater power and influence over personal choice. This, of course, cannot be achieved if one is not willing to limit the influence of the lots. This can be seen, among other things. in the case of the proposal to legislate a ceiling on the number of pre-cumulations, combined with a reduction of the add-on from 100 pst. until 25 pst. In order to meet the needs of the larger parties in particular for predictability and continuity in the larger municipalities, we have found it right to increase the number of pre-cumulations somewhat. The rapporteur has given a thorough account of the model of the committee that has been set up. Also in the case of county elections, an element of personal choice is now introduced. Today, voters have no real opportunity to influence personal choice in the county elections, since at least half of the voters using a list must support a particular candidate by deleting candidates placed higher in the list. Government proposal that at least 8 pst. the voters must have given a vote to a candidate before the order of the lot in the list is superseded, this threshold is significantly lowered. I'm glad. Today, the age of voting at all elections is 18 years. It should continue to be. Therefore, the large majority of the Committee considers that they agree with the Ministry's assessment that it is not appropriate to make attempts to reduce the age of voting rights. When the age of authority in Norway is 18 years, it will be sought to put in place mechanisms that eliminate the link between the age of authority and the age of voting rights and of choice. The rapporteur was concerned about some of the assessments related to the Swinger System. There is disagreement in the Committee as to whether or not to retain the possibility of introducing slings, and also as to the type of slings to be fitted. That is where we, as the rapporteur was concerned, have to come back to legislation to ensure that it is in line with what the majority wants, and that we can combine the continuation of today's severance system with the Sainte-Laguë method. The so-called balancing mandate system is the subject of this deliberations. In relation to what the representative, Mr. Engretsen, said in the previous article, I would like to add that a major accident could affect the local People's Party rather than the expiry of the cohesion mandate. I am therefore pleased that there is a majority in the Chamber that supports this – we are expected to do so – whereas, therefore, with the double vote of the chairman, it was a majority in the committee that did not want it. I will be allowed to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1049	Martin Engeset has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1052	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very thorough review of the Committee's position on the matter. I would like to focus my speech on the areas where the proposal and the position of the Progress Party differ somewhat from what has become the position of the majority. First of all, this applies to the influence of voters. We in the Progress Party are very concerned that the voters should be given great influence. We believe that this is important for local democracy. We believe that it will increase the interest of the ordinary woman and man in the municipalities if they can participate in a more direct way and decide who is to be elected to local government and county council. So I'll be allowed to draw attention to what's going on with irons. It's a practice that we already know well. It has been widely used in municipalities, and the majority of the Committee is now in favour of removing this scheme. We in the Progress Party believe that this is negative. We are proposing that the system for voters to delete candidates on the list be maintained. I think it's the way the voters have to be given the opportunity to express their opinion about the people who are at the elections in the different municipalities. Many people have made themselves known in some way through the media and elsewhere, and I think it is very important that the voters are given the opportunity to be negative or positive in relation to the job done by the people who are on the choice. We are also very positive about maintaining the tightening system. It will come back to something later, but I will already be allowed to signal that we will be positive on the part of the Progress Party to maintain it. When it comes to elections, our views differ somewhat from those of the majority. We're of the opinion that the limit should be of 5 pst. insteadfor 8 pst. That means if 5 pst. by the voters on a list have set a check mark by a person, this will result in an exception in the choice. We believe that the limit of 5 pst. is more correct than a limit of 8 pst. So another point where we're different from the majority. It goes on with the opportunity of the parties to secure their top candidates. All those involved in politics know that sometimes it can be very difficult to get people involved and very difficult to get people involved in politics. That's why I think it's very important that those people who are actually willing to take on such a task are given the opportunity to do it in the form that the parties can pre-cumulate these, so that you are sure that you get candidates who have both the time and the capacity to do the job that we're talking about. The majority propose four pre-cumulations on municipal boards with 11–23 members, six pre-cumulations on local councils with 25–53 members and ten with more than 55 members on the local council. We in the Progress Party want the parties to decide for themselves how many people want to pre-cumulate. I think it's going to be particularly relevant in the big municipalities, where you have big municipal governments and established parties, and you have roles to fill, that you can have a certain predictability of who is elected. I will also be allowed to mention this by laying down their duties in the middle of a period. We have seen the situation that has been in the municipality of Vardø, where a municipal government collectively more or less laid down its responsibilities. We in the Progress Party are committed to clarify that when you take on a position, you also have a duty to follow it up. Therefore, we propose that, if a majority of the representatives of the local council cease their activities in the middle of a period, supplementary choices should be made. Furthermore, we also put forward a proposal that makes politicians who have resigned for a period will not be eligible for election at the next elections. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals No. 3 and 4 which are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1071	Henrik Rød has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1074	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a tidy discharge through some difficult work – we have to admit that it was. I want to focus on the framework of local policy in this article – the framework of the electoral law we adopt. I would also like to say something about our proposals. On June 7, this year, the newspaper had an interesting comment: ‘Why do the voters fail?’ It said: «On the local level, deterrence takes place. All municipalities are not as poor in money, but all municipalities experience desperate economics and state-sponsored tasks as a damp hand over local democracy. Government and Storting's grip on the municipal economy represents the greatest threat to municipal autonomy since its introduction in 1837. This is what the voters see. Why vote in municipal elections when local politicians have not done anything?’ SV does not share the view that local politicians are not allowed to do anything, but local democracy is so valuable to us that we will fight for it every single day. Today, local democracy is threatened by more and more abstinence and the fact that more and more important decisions are left to the market – the internal governance areas where public access and transparency are tighter – reinforces this trend. Just publicity and transparency are important for people to be able to engage in local policy, not only in elections, but also between elections. The signals that several rapporteurs consider stopping should make many people see the warning lights shining. The best guarantee for a well-functioning local democracy is therefore a municipal economy that enables municipalities and county municipalities to meet their needs. We in SV do not believe in anything at all that a new electoral law is sufficient to revitalise local democracy and stimulate increased electoral participation. But what we agree on is that the electoral law should legitimise the elected bodies and create formal rules. In this way, there is an important law that we adopt today. The majority's more or less strong tendency to raise the index finger to the Vardø uprising is in the light of what I have said, in our opinion a bomb shot. Not to mention the proposals of the Progress Party – So the Progress Party has been dismayed that the Vardø politicians have taken action, and believes that such irresponsible local politicians should not be able to choose at the next crossroads. This is to tackle the problem at the wrong end, if we can't call it a total bombing. Is it not more irresponsible to break the law by cutting off statutory duties? I'm just asking. The majority of the room will cancel the adjacent arrangement by filling selection. I have a long seagoing service in the county and have seen the importance of ensuring the representation of the small municipalities. The majority's proposal means that the small municipalities will not be allowed to vote in the county council. Not for that reason, with the conscious stripping of the tasks of the county councils, it may well be that the county elections in 2003 will be the last. If I didn't guess wrong, it would also be a wish situation for the Council of State – but not for us, so we're going to get more about that! SV proposes, at present, to lower the age of voting rights in municipal and county elections to 16 years. Such a mechanism and change will help to extend democratic participation. Young people today have little influence and little responsibility for many of the decisions that concern them, their marine environment, their everyday lives and their future. At the same time, there is nothing to suggest that political commitment is lower among 16-17-year-olds than it is among the people of my generation, which is then the best-morning. A recent NOVA report shows that a higher proportion of young people today have participated in policy activities than those of older age groups. The experience of Germany in which they have local voting rights for 16-year-olds is unique. Election participation in the 16–20 age group is higher than in the 21–25 age group. In view of this, I am promoting our proposals on reduced voting age and on the withdrawal period by prior vote. We simply want the vote – what people have decided on on election day – and the election campaign to be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1098	Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1101	For me as a local politician, it has been interesting to work with the law on elections to county councillors and local councillors. In most municipalities it is felt that the electoral process is falling, political parties lose members, and the loyalty of one party does not have the same foundation in the people as before. Then one might wonder: are people passive, do they not want to engage, have they lost confidence in the political system, or have it become too complicated? Are we going to lure people to the ballot boxes with tax deductions, or are we going to push them there by imposing voting obligations? The Christian People's Party agrees with the Election Law Committee that such instruments cannot create a living democracy. We believe that a living democracy, among other things, are created through debates – in a dialogue between voters and engaged politicians. The population has commitment, and it's occupied by society around it, but is it expressed at the polls? The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that election attendance increased from 75.8 p.m. in 1993 to 78,3 p.m. in 1997. However, we would like people's involvement through newspaper columns and TV channels, through demonstrations and signature campaigns, to be channelled more widely to elected and public administrations. There we, elected by the people, have a key role, a link between the people and those who rule. In contrast to other stakeholder organisations, parties must take responsibility for the development of society as a whole. The parties must give priority to objectives and interests, between what kind of society they want, and the opposite of interests. An important change in the odelstningsproposition is that voters should have a greater impact on personal choice. It is positive, and the Christian People's Party has programmed that we will work for a more living democracy that opens up personal political influence for the individual citizen. It is important that the best possible balance be struck between the interests of the lots and those of the voters. That is why we have gone to advance the cumulation of only four to ten members. The Electoral Commission proposed two, but in our opinion this will create problems, especially in larger municipalities with many representatives and many full-day politicians. The Christian People's Party is in favour of 25 pst. voice plugin. Then we believe in greater choice, and that's what we think is important. Experience shows that when voters have had the opportunity to delete names on the lists, it has turned off negative for women, immigrants and for youth candidates. This does not want the Christian People's Party to continue, and we are pleased that the Committee has agreed to abolish this system. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of ensuring a good gender distribution on the list proposals, so that we can ensure trust and legitimacy. The Christian People's Party agrees that the system of wrestling votes is maintained, a system that affects candidate membership and thus also the distribution of mandates among the lists. It is also in line with the KS" recommendation. But this theme has been subjected to the treatment of the harvest. In the county elections we support the ministry's recommendation that at least 8 pst. the voters must have given their candidates a vote in person in order for the voters to override the ranking of the lot. The election commission proposed 5 pst. But we think it's too low. The scheme will be evaluated and followed up by the Ministry. Then the Christian People's Party is concerned with the nomination support. It may be integrated into the batch aid but retained as a separate scheme. When integrating the nomination support into the batch support, it is important to ensure that all districts within a county have a reasonable influence on the candidates to represent the lot, thereby ensuring the widest possible integration of the list proposal being drawn up. The entry took over the responsibility for prior voting at the 1997 Grand Prix – and it was positive. It saved the municipalities too much work, and the cooperation with the Post functioned brilliantly. 87 pst. of those who voted in favour of the scheme and, as mentioned earlier, increased voting participation in 1997. When the Christian People's Party goes in to restore responsibility from the Post to the municipalities, it is not due to the dissatisfaction with how the Post has carried out its tasks. This is due to structural changes in the Post Office. We have received fewer post offices, we have received “post shops”, service offices and the like. Elections are a public matter and the principle of secret elections must be guaranteed. Not all Post’s so-called new premises meet the requirements that need to be met. The municipalities are of course free to cooperate with the Post if they want to. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important to ensure that voters in need of assistance in the polls of an bystander are not subject to influence or control. That is why it is important for two people to be present, and I would like to focus in particular on the postal couriers. There must be two, and I am pleased with the proposal on this point. The Christian People's Party believes that this law will give a fair electoral system, and that voters will have greater influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1125	The centre party is not represented in the committee, and I will briefly explain our views and vote on the matter. The rapporteur has carried out a thorough review of the various issues related to changes in the electoral law, but some of those that are fundamental to the authority and position of local democracy have not been addressed by the rapporteur. It may not be the time to discuss it in connection with a change in the electoral law, which we are now faced with. However, I would like to add a few comments to that as well. There is no doubt that economic space for action, state regulation and the many governmental requirements to which local democracy is constantly being subjected are a far greater threat and a far greater challenge to local democracy than the changes we are making in the electoral law today. In the same way as Mr Ågot Valle, I would also like to say that when the Progress Party wants to interfere with the responses of local politicians, by proposing deportation for the following period when responding as the local politicians in Vardø have done, it shows how far one is willing to go in order to penalise responses from local politicians. The state can force local politicians to break the law every day. There is a risk of fines, as the Minister of Social Affairs has done, if the care of the elderly is not good enough and the tasks are carried out to the satisfaction of the government. So when, as you have done in Vardø, you use the most powerful instrument that you can imagine in local politics, namely, to lay down your responsibilities for a shorter or longer period of time, you have to be punished with deportation for a period of time. But much better are not the government parties and up to several government councils, which in various media resolutions recently have had the following message to local politicians: If you are not satisfied with what you get, find something else to do! Who are these parties and the government believes the local politicians represent? Do you see local politicians as representatives of the state power, or do you see local politicians as representatives of the inhabitants of the municipality? For the Central Party, there is no doubt that we see local politicians as representatives of the people. They are elected to represent the inhabitants of their municipality, not to be the extended arm of the state power in the exercise of governmentally imposed tasks. This, I think, is important to be told, even though it may well be a long way off in a different context than in the case of changes to the electoral law. Of course, the balance between the influence of the voters and the parties on election results and on the composition of local government and county councils is demanding. The centre party wishes the voters to have the greatest possible influence on the composition of the elected bodies. But at the same time, it's also for us to meet a dilemma in relation to the parties' ability to secure representatives that you want, and the ability of voters to influence. I believe that this balance is well on the way to finding in this majority position from the Committee, even though the Central Party could have considered going even further – we considered it strongly – with regard to the limitation of ex ante cumulation. However, there is a rather strong delimitation in relation to what has been the situation in the past, when the majority now assumes that there are the parties that fully govern the pre-cumulation, and to a limitation, as the majority say, in relation to the size of the local authorities. The center part joins it, and will also look at the experience in the future. Today, the Central Party is promoting two proposals, the proposals No. Nine and ten. Proposal No. 9 attends nomination meetings. I share the Christian People's Party representative's view on the need to have representativeness in relation to different parts of a state when compiling the electoral list of county elections. But there is no doubt that with the geography we have, and with the different sizes we have on the parties, incorporating remuneration for nomination meetings in the party support will create significant distortions between the states where it is most expensive to travel – I am myself a representative from such a state, Northernland, where it is very expensive to hold a nomination meeting – and the smallest states, with short travel distances. Therefore, the Party wishes to maintain the current system and, in the light of this, it promotes proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox We also want to have trials carried out with a local date for the municipal elections, just to give the municipalities that want to do so, an opportunity to have a strong focus on local matters. Finally, I would like to make a brief explanation of vote. Of course, the centre party will vote in favour of our own proposals, we will vote against all minority proposals, and we will vote in favour of the vote, except for § 7-2 and § 11-12, which is what goes on longer. Initially, the Senterpartie also wanted to keep the scheme with slenderers, but I buy the case-rapporteur's argument that it might make sense to look at this for the autumn. We will then also go in to postpone it and come back to that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1144	Odd Roger Enoksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Before we move on to the list of speakers, Martin Engeset will have the floor to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1149	In the event of an incubation, as it is called, I was injured to mention the debate and the theme of the order of the day and the order of the day and its continuation, without promoting a proposal, which is supposed to be necessary from the point of view of the context. The proposal, No. 6, is now being distributed in the hall, and it is being promoted on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1154	Martin Engeset then brought up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1157	The left may well call itself the mother of the National Government in Norway. We would also like to take part in the debate, sail if we are not represented in the committee. On the other hand, we were represented in the Election Law Committee. The positions here in the Chamber could probably also be marked by the effects of a maritime electoral system. We are satisfied that there is an upgrade to the electoral law, rather moderate, but there are some steps in the positive direction, as we see it. The force centre of gravity is shifted towards the voters, but without bridging over the important role of the parties in the Norwegian system. The electoral law is important as a basis for legitimate democracy. The rules must be good, and they must be technically tidy, so that in retrospect there can be no doubt that everything has gone right. We remember the last presidential election in the United States, which shows the significance of that. We support the proposals made by the Government and the proposals and comments made by the government parties in the vote, with a small exception. It dare be known that the Left is a party that has a dissenting view of one point, where we did not receive support from the Government. The Left believes that 16-year-olds should have the right to vote in municipal and county elections, as the Left has had on its programme for many years, and as the SV has later raised and made proposals for today. Today, 16-year-olds can do much more about society around them than 18-year-olds could do when the 18-year-old age of voting was introduced. Today, 16-year-olds are faced with a number of choices for their own future that are quite big and have great effects on them later in life. Today, 16-year-olds can sit in municipal elections, but cannot vote, and 18-year-olds can today decide who should be granted a gift permit on alcohol – a thing that they themselves do not have the opportunity to use. We're going to stand together in the work further to create a greater understanding of this position, even if we don't see it possible to vote for it today. The left also believes that municipalities should have the opportunity to choose their own election day in order to be able to focus more on local issues, without being disturbed by national politicians and other agendas. But in this area, there is a lot going on, and I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on the proposal that has come from the Central Party, on how the processes are going in this area. The left will express support for the Government's original proposal and the SV's comments and proposals regarding the withdrawal period. We believe it must be possible to withdraw a given vote in advance on the election day. In the last few weeks of the last big shot, we almost wondered if we should start a signing campaign for this, because so many requests were made that the position had changed in the last few days. We also express our support for the comments of the Progress Party on direct elections to the rapporteur, but also our support for the comments of an overall committee on the need to investigate this before it is incorporated into the electoral law. Many express the fact that different approaches in the electoral law can get more voters to the urns. I think we should be careful to believe that this is where the main challenge lies. More importantly, it is how the voters perceive the importance and influence of the elected bodies. The simple proposal from the Committee on Election Law that could have been of the greatest importance in such a direction, I think, is a majority proposal to legislate the municipal maritime administration. Therefore, I regret that no more politicians and the party share the Left's involvement in this matter and were supported by the independent representatives in the sample. We hope that challenge will later be met with a more open mind. Otherwise, many people are worried that people don't care. I don't share that concern. The large numbers behind the turnout show that it's only 2-3 pst. who never votes, sail if there are many who do not vote in each individual election. The figures from the last elections show that the drop in youth voting has actually stopped, and never before have people been as politically active as they are today. Never before have we had more signing campaigns, never before have we had more demonstrations, and never before have we had more parental reactions. I believe that local democracy is primarily threatened from this Chamber, with legal politicians who want to turn local democracy into a link with lawyers who jump and offer citizens their offers through the law of rights made in this Chamber. That's something we have to fight for together. I will end by saying that we are going to vote in favour of SV's proposal on the withdrawal period. We also support proposal No. 6, which is presented today from the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, about slingders.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1183	I am pleased that the Stortinget today is dealing with what must be called part one of a new electoral law. It is part of the proposal put forward by the Government, which will be discussed later. However, this setting is characterised by the fact that the most important framework around and the new element in relation to the electoral law has been endorsed, namely the need to have a greater degree of personal choice in all types of elections. In my opinion, changes in both local and county elections will increase the level of personal choice. I agree with those who say that the electoral system itself is not the most important thing for more people to vote or guarantee a well-functioning democracy, but it is a prerequisite that we have a good electoral system that enables the preferences that voters have to have both in terms of people and policies to be made effective in the elections. The most important function of the law is simply to give legitimacy to elected bodies, in addition to the practical ones. I think that in today's situation this is precisely getting a greater degree of personal choice, greater opportunities for the voters to influence the people, an important part of it to give elected bodies more legitimacy. Then we can take the big debate on municipal freedom in a different context. I just want to remember two things in relation to it. One is to give room for action, and the other is a question of how much money you should have. I just want to say with reference to the debate in the previous case, that I have a feeling that the space of action and the ability of the municipalities to make decisions is not always in line with the wishes of those who want to give more money. Let me then comment on some of the things that are lying there. I'm glad, as I said, that we get more personal choice also in municipal elections. I am pleased that the parties have been restricted to pre-cumulating candidates, even though it does not go as far as the Government has suggested. But we'll take that with us. I and the Government also see that there is a need for us to make proposals for some changed rules in relation to the proposal of the Committee on Elections, in particular in the larger cities where there are more full-time politicians, to have a slightly greater access to advance cumulation than just setting the limit on two in all types of municipalities. So there are some specific questions in the debate. I want to start with the question related to proposal No. 10, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party. It is in itself an exciting proposal, but no preparatory work has been done by the Ministry in this respect. I am in favour of – if the Stortinget agrees – that we could promise from the Ministry to take a thorough review pro a contra-linked to this, and present it to the Stortinget, for example. in the context of the budget. If there are practical possibilities to implement it, I think it should be a good solution. Because I think that when it comes to taking such far-reaching new decisions, a thorough investigation should have been carried out – with experience that we have adopted things in the past that have initially been heard well, there might be good reason to do so. I'm prepared to do that, for example. in the budget for the harvest may come back to a review pro contra, and how, where appropriate, this can be implemented in a practical way so that the whole of the Grand Duchy can carry out a review and a decision relating to this area. So the question related to Vardø. I want to say that I believe that the situation related to Vardø's experiences makes us need to review the law and look at what happens when such a situation occurs, especially if the situation should last a long time. I agree that legal regulation is not the best way to solve these kinds of challenges, but there is probably a need for us to have an answer to what the routines are if it were to happen first, and possibly what the consequences are. Because if the situation resolved relatively quickly in Vardø, such situations may arise in the future. That is why I am prepared to follow up the Committee's comments on the matter and come back to Stortinget with the result of that assessment. You can then decide whether to do something or not at the time you have a review of what are possible solutions to these kinds of issues. Otherwise, many things are listed in the setting. Of course, we follow up on the things that are being adopted and the changes that are being adopted. Although there have been changes to the Government's arrangements, I believe that in sum we have got through what is the Government's goal, namely a simpler electoral law and more personal choice. And then we'll be aware that there might be some slight changes to the government's arrangement. Overall, we're also satisfied with what comes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1205	It is good, according to what the Council of State said about the reasonable proposal of the Centre Party, that we are now introducing our own test home into the electoral law. And that can give us an opportunity to run those trials. So it's clear that after what we're going to do today, we're going to do that experiment. I think it's interesting that we get such solid support from the Left when it comes to our proposal on reduced voting age, and that there's actually a fight going on in the government about it. We see it as half-way saying that test homes are now being introduced into the electoral law, but the majority will not use them to make attempts with reduced voting age, voting rights for 16-year-olds, despite the good experience of Germany, to which I referred in my post, and despite the fact that the NOVA report shows that there is a larger proportion of the young people participating in political activity today than it was in my generation. I really support what Trine Skei Grande said about today's youth being political. In other words, they have acquired knowledge, they have gained experience, and they show commitment that could benefit local democracy. My question is: why won't the Council of State be so bold that she can open up for trial – try! – with reduced age of voting rights? Why is the Council of State so afraid of it? And I want some other explanations than what goes on between the age of authority and the age of voting. Why won't the Council of State open up for trial?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1216	It's not like you can order explanations other than the explanations you actually have on why you don't do anything. It is mainly the age of authority that is the reason why the government has not wanted to try either. It is because we want to try out something that we think might be a good idea, but if the government has taken a stand on this and we don't think it's a good idea because we believe that the age of voting should be linked to the age of authority, we don't think there is a need for testing either. So it's a reality statement that we don't necessarily have to try out things that we don't want to go further to adopt new reforms. In this area, the Government has had a discussion. It's absolutely right that the left means something else. Let me just say it this way: I suddenly got the vote before I was 18 – it was adopted then.. Then, after three to four months, the age of authority was also lowered because it was thought that the age of voting rights and the age of authority were the same. And I'm not sure if I believe that my experience then, namely being in the group referred to by the Left's parliamentary leader, who might be less politically active or not as good at politics as the 16-year-old has today, votes. My experience was enough that it was reasonably well anchored, the political debate at that time, with quite great temperature and at least much greater party political commitment at the time than it is now. But that's not the reason. It's not the exposure or the possibility of it. It is simply the tasks you have as elected representatives, it is also, in my opinion, linked to being authoritative and to being responsible for the actions you are doing. It is a paradox that one must be able to sit and make quite serious and big decisions in a municipality, while the parents must still receive child welfare for one! Then I think it should at least be related, when the responsibility is given, that one also has the authority to assume that responsibility and has become authoritative in the eyes of the Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1227	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1232	It has not been and will not be full baluba today, as we can expect when the parties, not least the county benches, are going to war over the distribution of mandates and the area factor for the harvest. Then there is well reason to believe that all, most will be closest to themselves – in the name of democracy. In the case of local teams today, peace and tolerance are largely unanimous in the hall, but the system of balancing mandates in county elections has survived itself. Fortunately, it seems to be a majority to remove the whole scheme. When a unanimous committee in the setting on page 10 states that the voters ‘must be guaranteed a real opportunity to influence who is to represent the party’, I think it is logical to remove the whole balancing mandates scheme, such as: a candidate A who was in 59th place on an electoral list, solely because of sleeping accommodation at night, takes the place from candidate B, who may have been in 7th place on the list or had crossed the barrier of votes. This is simply not part of the personal choice system we are now establishing so little. I fully agree with the arguments of the majority of the committee on the need for local knowledge and contact between local authorities and the county council, but the balancing mechanism is definitely not the medicine for it. As a member of the district council in Akershus, I have seen that it is easy to see what the main problem is, namely that the overwhelming majority of state politicians are almost convenient to be isolated from serious electoral contacts, compared to, for example, the majority of states politicians. municipal and urban policy. I am not going to swear that there are no politicians of this type either in this house or in any other municipality, but this lack of electoral contact I guess I can explain why, for example, my own county boasts with the opposition institute or does not grant itself completely unknown remuneration or study fees. In other words, some of them are colliding with the idea of joining forces, with the result that the number of municipalities within the county boundaries is increasing considerably. The choice made with the preservation of what I would call anachronism a balancing mandate, here can be a quite peculiar affair. That the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party ensure a majority to remove the whole system, I think is very good. This is one of the few things we disagree about. On the other hand, what we agree on, as no one has said, is that disabled people have to be guaranteed better access to the polling facilities by laying down this in a regulation. After sitting in polls a lot of times and seeing how crowded many are when they are coming and going to vote, it is clear that the election campaign itself for many is an important confirmation that you belong to a community and participate in it. That feeling should not only be the majority wrong, but also those who have different disabilities. It's not particularly inclusive to let someone stand almost away in a hook, on the smoke corner, at a school to vote because of their disability, because it's not possible to get into the room with a wheelchair, while you see everyone else passing by to exercise their civil duty and civil rights. Jet is therefore pleased that a unanimous committee wants the availability of polling facilities to be determined in the form of a regulation and that batch names are also requested to appear in the form of Braille on the various list proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1252	I have a question to the Council of State in connection with a comitology note on page 15 of the suspension concerning the activity requirements and organisational activities of registered political parties in order to maintain their registration. Most people know that in the register of registered political parties there are several parties that have had relatively limited, if any, activity for some years, i.e. parties that may have only been on this list for ten years. That means that if someone doesn't want to take the bloodshed it is to collect 5,000 followers to a new political party, and get signatures to be able to keep lists both for the election of the city and the election of the county, then in fact a crowd of seven can only send a letter to Notarius Publicus and say that they have held national meetings in such a party, which is just on the name. It's a right you have when you're a nationally registered party. They will then notify that they are the newly elected central government and that they will change the name of the lot to a different name and report the address of the lot. Then a letter from Notarius Publicus is sent to all parties, asking if anyone has any objections to this name change. If no one has it, and those who were really behind this party, are gone, have moved or no addresses are known, then Notarius Publicus, because no one has protested, will accept the new party name with the new so-called central government and the new address. This team has then acquired a political party and can initiate the submission of lists without having done so in accordance with the statutes of this party. So you do it by a cup of coffee or a cup of coffee, to use an expression that's been promoted in some debates. It is to circumvent the law, circumvent the applicable requirements, and get that benefit free of charge without anyone checking. No one is controlling this today. It is therefore a unanimous committee that asks the Government to assess a requirement for a certain activity, more than what is contained in the legislative amendments proposed by the Electoral Committee and organisational activities, that it be ensured, if necessary, that it is the statutes that are followed by these parties. If this does not happen after any year, this entire batch is deleted from this list of registered lots. A unanimous committee asks the Government to assess this issue and come back to Stortinget with the result. I would like to ask the Council of State when we can expect her to come back with any proposals for a tightening in this area, and when we can expect a possible system that will remove 'dead' parties from the list, and in particular whether it could come before the next big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1261	I am absolutely sure that we can come back with this before the next big shot. I dare not here and now promise how quickly we can come back with proposals for changes. It's kind of dependent on what we think of us as possible changes, and how it's going to be done. But what I can promise is that during the fall, before you finish the next part of the election law, we can come back with a brief sketch to the committee of control and constitution about what we see of possible changes that can be made, and when we can possibly get back to it. I am a little afraid now to commit myself to a time, because I do not have the overview today of what changes this requires in other laws and regulations. It will also take some time for us to get the overview, but it should be quite possible that, when the Stortninget is reassembled, it can in some form inform the Control and Constitutional Committee about the pace of further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1268	Since I got a little too short in my post instead, I now want to mention a matter that is important to the Christian People's Party, namely the prioritisation. In particular, it is important to ensure that the voters in need of assistance in the constituencies. A number of disabled persons of different kinds have been mentioned in the past. It's important. Then it is important that those who come to the polling room do not be subject to influence or control of the electorate's action. That's why it's great that we're getting a bill adopted now that there must be a minimum of two people in advance. In particular, this country postal service provider has a special position in relation to the voters they are looking for. It is therefore positive that the law is amended in such a way as to require the presence of two persons at the time of receipt of the ballot at the home of voters, at institutions or at other places where the electoral board has decided that voting should take place. I would like to end by saying that the Christian People's Party hopes that the simplifications that are now taking place in the electoral law will lead to improvements in a fairer electoral system, that voters will have the influence that we want, and that this will increase the turnout.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 526]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1290	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 542]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1306	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 542]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1319	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1326	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Eva M. Nielsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, No. 3-6, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen The President first refers to proposals Nos. 3, 5 and 6, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit legislative proposals by the end of the 1st half of 2003 on the basis of Decision XIV/JHA. S. No 337 on the Quality Reform of Higher Education: ‘The Government asks the Government to draft a proposal for a common law for State and private institutions in the field of higher education.’» [[2000-2001]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy presupposes that private colleges which are currently entitled to graduate education or which provide vocational training in accordance with Section 9 of the Law on Private Higher Education will be institutionally accredited colleges.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case on economic equality between public and private higher education provision. It is assumed that, where appropriate. public contributions to the research activities of institutions shall be financed on their own initiative and, in other words, the financing arrangements shall be based mainly on unit prices per unit. students whose weights and study progress are also included. Furthermore, it is assumed that such a case will be submitted at the latest in the context of the 2003 State Budget.» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1417	The President will vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party to § 3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on the right of examination and state grants to private colleges shall be amended as follows:§ 3 second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The owner of the higher education institution shall determine the number of members of the board of directors, who shall accommodate at least two members elected by and from each of the groups of employees and students.§ 3 second paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The institution shall itself determine the internal organisation of the business at all levels. The second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following:In the case of institutions receiving State grants for operation, the Ministry shall appoint an external member of the Management Board on a free basis. The Board of Directors of the institution may propose candidates.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1563	For the first and third subparagraphs, an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on State grants to private universities shall be amended as follows:Article 9, first paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The body referred to in the Law on Universities and Universities § 12 shall assess applications for the approval of examinations and degrees. The Management Board of the body shall give an opinion to the Ministry on the rules of procedure. The rules shall be approved by the Ministry.§ 9, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Other examinations and degrees shall be recognised when they are professionally at the level of those laid down by law in the second subparagraph.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1586	The President will then vote on the other paragraphs of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1648	The President will vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen to the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs of Section 10a. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs of Section 10a are replaced by the following:Regulations and standards related to the accreditation of private universities shall be equivalent to regulations and standard provided institutions governed by the Law of Universities and Higher Education.Accreditation and evaluation shall be based on the standards used for the equivalent training of leading institutions internationally. The rules are approved by the Department.The decisions of the Agency under Section 9 may be appealed against to an independent appeal by the Ministry. The Ministry of Justice shall provide for the right to apply to the courts. All evaluations carried out by the body are public and the body shall contribute to their publication.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1790	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on the right of examination and state grants to private colleges shall be amended as follows:§ 10 f shall be replaced by the following:Students’ learning environment1. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the learning environment of students. The Management Board, in cooperation with student relations, shall facilitate a good study environment and work to improve student welfare at the university.2. The Management Board is responsible for ensuring that the learning environment of the institution, including the physical and mental work environment, is fully sound on the basis of an overall assessment of the health, safety and well-being of the students. The Working Environment Act and its related regulations shall apply mutatis mutandis, with the exception of Chapters VIII to XII B and XV.3. At the institution, there shall be a learning environment committee and one or more guardians who shall exercise the rights of the students in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1. 1, 2 and the Working Environment Act. Educational environment committees and protection ombudsmen shall have the same rights and duties as those of the occupational environment committee and the protection ombudsman under Chapter VII of the Labour Environment Act.4. The institution's work on the learning environment shall be documented and included as part of the institution's internal control systems in accordance with Section 16(a) of the Working Environment Act and its related regulations.5. Labour supervision is the supervisory body. The Working Environment Act Chapter XIII applies mutatis mutandis.6. The Ministry may lay down rules.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1946	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1956	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1963	During the debate, Kari Lise Holmberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e1998	The President will first vote on the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in respect of I, Sections 3, 6, 13 and 14. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 27 June 1947 9 on measures to promote employment. 9 on measures to promote employment are amended as follows:Section 3 is deleted.§ 6 shall be replaced by the following: Member States shall organise public employment services and vocational guidance covering the whole of the rich.Aetat shall be represented in the places provided by the Directorate-General for Employment.Aetat shall provide services for vocational guidance and for the re-establishment of job-impaired jobseekers.§ 13 shall be replaced by:Employers and workers who do not fulfil reasonable requirements in connection with the dissemination may be refused the help of Aetat for a shorter or longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2050	Since you have now been adopted in the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, it is natural that II in the position should lapse. The President will now vote for II in the proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The law shall apply from the time of the King's decision. The King may bring into force the individual provisions at different times.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2067	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2077	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2089	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2096	During the debate, Kari Lise Holmberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2140	There is an alternative proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:135 [[2201-2002]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2156	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2168	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2176	During the debate, Kari Lise Holmberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2223	For point (f), there is an aberrant proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «(f) of the fifth paragraph of Section 13 of the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law shall be replaced by:(f) companies, foundations or others which have concluded a cooperation agreement with the State, a county or municipality to provide housing for disadvantaged persons.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2284	For point (f), there is an aberrant proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The fifth paragraph of Section (f) of Section 22 shall be replaced by the following:(f) companies, foundations or others which have concluded a cooperation agreement with the State, a county or municipality to provide housing for disadvantaged persons.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2325	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2335	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2353	B I and II will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2360	10 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Kjell Engretsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 3 and 4, by Henrik Red, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs 5 and 8, by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Group, 6, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 7, by Kjell Engretsen, on behalf of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, 9 and 10, from Odd Roger Enoxen on behalf of the Center Party. The President first refers to proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to facilitate tests with a locally set date for the local authority. The tests must allow the local authority to set the date of local elections within a limited period of time.’;» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2479	For point (a) of the first subparagraph, there is a different proposal from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following provisions of the Election Act shall be replaced by the following: [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2629	Paragraphs 3(b) and (c) of the third paragraph of Article 3(3) present an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following provisions of the Election Act shall be replaced by the following:(b) the third paragraph of Section 3-3, the head of administration or his deputy, the head of the administrative division, the head of the budget and staff, the secretary of the Municipal Council or the county council, the accounting officer, or the audit officer.(c) The person who has resigned from office during the current term of office has not been released in a valid manner.’; [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2811	The President would like to make a reference to proposal No. 9, from the Centre Party, to a new Chapter 6: ‘Proposal for a new chapter on nomination. Is identical to § 18–§ 23 of the applicable electoral law. Chapter 6 Nomination§ 6-1 When a party registered under Sections 5-1 and Section 5-2 meets to nominate candidates for the Grand Duchy or the county council in accordance with the rules of this Section, the elected delegates who attend the meeting are required to pay the state fund according to the regulations for domestic travel.In any event, disregarding the rules of the law does not invalidate the nomination.§ 6-2 The nomination meeting of the county is convened by the board of directors of the party's organisation in the county or, if such an organisation does not exist, by the main board of the party. The Board of Directors shall ensure that the choice of broadcasts from the municipalities in the county is ensured, cf. § 6-4, may be held in time and for the broadcasts to be informed of the time and place of the nomination meeting. The meetings referred to in Sections 6 to 4 may vote on the persons to whom the participants wish to appear on the lot's election list and on the order in which they wish to be listed. If such a vote is held, the meeting leader shall, as soon as possible and in good time before the nomination meeting, notify the vote to the board of the party's county organisation or, if the party does not have a county organisation, the main board of the party. The Management Board shall draw up an overview of the outcome of these votes and shall ensure that the summary is presented at the nomination meeting. The nomination meeting shall be held in an appropriate place to be determined by the Management Board. The meeting consists of the broadcasts selected from the municipalities in the county, cf. § 6-3, § 6-4 and § 6-5. The leader and secretary of the organisation of the party in the county or, if no such organisation exists, the main board of directors of the party may participate in the negotiations with the right to speak and to make proposals. They do not have the right to vote, unless they are chosen to be broadcasts from a municipality. The meeting is held for open doors, if the broadcasts so decide.Two or more party nomination meetings may decide to hold a joint nomination meeting on a proposal from the relevant board of directors. If a nomination meeting has to be postponed for this reason, participants do not receive food allowance from the national fund for the time involved because of this. the deferral. In addition, the broadcasts do not receive cloud compensation for travel which may be due to the postponement. A book of the proceedings of the nomination meeting is to be kept. The book shall include the names of those attending the meeting, together with the decisions taken at the meeting, with votes. § 6-4, to be presented at the nomination meeting. The original authorizations shall be sent to the county council together with the printing of the meeting book.The nomination made by the nomination meeting shall be final, unless it is presented to the voting members of the party in the assembly in accordance with the rules of the party's statutes.In that case, the result of the original vote shall be the final nomination of the party in the county.The governing body of the party's county organisation or, if such organisation does not exist, the main chairman of the party shall inform the county council of the vote and the outcome thereof.§ 6-3 The number of broadcasts from a municipality to a party's nomination meeting shall be calculated on the basis of the votes of the party in the municipality at the last previous roll-out election and, in the case of the county council election on the basis of the votes of the party shall be calculated in the municipality at the last preceding elections, in the following way: for 20-150 votes: 1 cast for the excess number up to 1,900: 1 cast for each successful 250; for the ordinary cast-off at the second quarter shall be sent for each quarter for each quarter. If a municipality has been divided or any part of its territory transferred to another municipality after the last choice, the county decides how the number of broadcasts from the municipality, calculated in accordance with the rules of the first, if any, second subparagraph, is to be allocated to the municipalities concerned. The competent batch organisation shall have the opportunity to give its opinion before the latter takes its decision.§ 6-4. The broadcasts to the nomination meeting are selected at the party meeting, which can be held at one or more locations in the municipality. The meeting of the parties shall be made known to the members of the municipality with a minimum of 8 days, including the date of publication and the date of the meeting. The members of the party residing in the municipality who have the right to sit and vote shall have the right to vote in the election. However, the articles of association of the party may provide that only members of the party's representation in the municipality shall have the right to meet and vote. The meeting shall be held for open doors if the voting participants so agree. Only persons who are presumed to have voting rights in the municipality at the time of the election may be selected as broadcasts to the nomination meeting. Otherwise, the competent party organisations decide how the meetings are to be organised and managed. A written mandate shall be drawn up for the selected broadcasts. The authorisation shall specify how and when the meeting has been made known to the members of the lot. In addition, the powers must contain the information necessary for compliance with the provisions of the law. The mandates shall be signed by the chairperson and two of the participants.If the meeting is held for the selection of broadcasts at several points in the municipality, the mandate shall be signed by the chairpersons of all meetings. Where votes are taken on the persons who wish to be included in the list of candidates for the meeting and on the order in which they wish to be listed, see: Paragraph 6-2, second paragraph, shall include in the book of meetings the number of participants at the meeting, the names of those who wish to be included in the list proposal, and the number of votes cast. Confirmed printing of the records shall be sent immediately to the Management Board of the Party Federation or, if the Party does not have a State Organisation, to the General Board of the Party. However, if the party meeting has not been held in a municipality, or the party meeting has not been held in accordance with the provisions of the law, or the selected broadcasts do not meet at the nomination meeting, the broadcasts that meet the requirements for the provision of noise and food allowance, unless the error is due to the party body which was required to convene the nomination meeting pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 6-2.§ 6-5 If a party that did not make the list at the last election holds the nomination meeting in the county, the broadcasts are entitled to skys and food allowance according to the rules of this law if they are selected in accordance with the rules of Sections 6 to 4. It is a condition that the number of consignments does not substantially exceed the number of lots required by § 6-3, when one assumes the number of votes obtained by the lot in the election to which the nomination applies. The broadcasts are entitled to compensation even if their distribution to the municipalities does not comply with the rules of the law, provided that it is likely that the party organisation has acted at the best discretion.§ 6-6 If, in the last previous election, a registered lot made up a list together with voters who represent no such lot, all votes allocated to this list to the registered lot are counted.If two or more registered lots made a common list in the last previous election, the number of consignments is calculated as a whole and allocated separately for each local authority. However, if the lots in a municipality have fewer broadcasts than the number of lots participating in the common list, they will receive one broadcast each. If the lot organisations cannot agree on the distribution, the party concerned shall decide on the matter, after the parties have been given the opportunity to make their views known. The provisions of the first and second subparagraphs shall apply mutatis mutandis if at the last choice two or more registered batches have drawn up a common list together with voters not representing any batch by organisation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e2948	Section 6-2, third paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 6-2, third paragraph: In the case of local government elections, proposers may provide candidates with a supplement to the list proposal in their personal votes corresponding to 25 % of the total number of votes received in the election. [[3]] These candidate names shall appear first on the list proposal and in bold.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3075	There are three different proposals here. That is proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, to the second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Election Act, the following provision is replaced by the following: the second paragraph of Section 7-2 is replaced by the following: 1 shall not be included in the list of candidates.’;» [[2]] That is proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to the new second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 7-2 new second paragraph: In the case of local government elections and county elections, the candidate may delete his name. [[2]] In this case, the candidate’s personal number of votes will be reduced by the number of times the candidate has been removed. A candidate for local government elections who is listed on the voting list in bold shall also lose his or her personal voting add-on on the vote sheet deleted.’» And that's proposal No. 6, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party to the Second Section. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of § 7-2 shall be replaced by the following: The voter may also vote in municipal elections to one or more candidates on other electoral lists. [[optional law]] [[2]] This is done by adding these candidate names to the voting list. Other amendments to the ballot do not count in the candidate list.» The President will draw attention to the fact that the proposal of the Right, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left and the Christian People's Party replaces the second and third paragraphs of the vote, which are deleted. The first paragraph of the adjustment is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3113	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to the new second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3125	Then the second paragraph of Section 7-2 is contested, and there is an alternative between proposal No. 6, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3372	Point (f) of the first subparagraph is amended as follows: 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 10-1, first paragraph, point (f):f) the selector has not submitted an approved vote at the election; and’;» The President would draw attention to the fact that the Left supports the Socialist Left proposal. In addition, the Socialist Left and Left want to vote against the third paragraph of the adjustment. Alternatively, the first paragraph (f) of the adjustment is replaced by the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, then the other letters under the first paragraph and the second paragraph above the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3429	Point (c) of the first subparagraph is amended as follows: 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 10-2, first paragraph, point (c):(c) the selector has not already submitted an approved vote on the election.’; The President assumes that the Left supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3521	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party to the First and Second paragraphs. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first and second paragraphs of Section 10-5 shall be replaced by the following: Preliminary counting of ballots issued on the election shall begin as soon as possible after the vote on the election has ended Preliminary counting of ballots given in advance shall begin as soon as all ballots are approved’. [[optional law]] [[1]] [[2]] The President also has reason to believe that the Left will support the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3692	There are two different proposals. That is proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party to the Second to the Fourth, which shall replace the second to the seventh part of the position. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the electoral law, the following provision shall be replaced by the following:Articles 11 to 10, second to fourth paragraphs: When it is decided how many mandates a electoral list should have, the council shall allocate the seats of the electoral council to the candidates on the list. [[2]] Candidates who are not eligible are excluded. Candidates on the list who have achieved a personal number of votes of at least eight per cent of the total number of votes in the list shall be ranked according to the number of personal votes received. The remaining candidates will be selected on the basis of their order in the list. [[3]] Each list shall be assigned, as far as possible, as many alternates as it receives representatives, with the addition of three. The candidates for the alternate seats shall be allocated in the same way as the representatives referred to in the second subparagraph. [[4]] If an electoral list has more mandates than there are eligible candidates on the list, the excess number of mandates shall be allocated among the other lists in accordance with the rule set out in the first subparagraph.’;» And that's proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, to the second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 11-10, second paragraph: When it is decided how many mandates an electoral list should have, the County Election Board allocates the seats to the candidates on the list. [[2]] Candidates who are not eligible are excluded. Candidates on the list who have achieved a personal voting number of at least five pst. by the total number of votes in the list, obtained in order of the number of personal votes received. The remaining candidates shall be selected on the basis of their order in the list.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e3778	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 7 from the entire committee. This proposal shall replace the first and second paragraphs of the suspension, which shall therefore be deleted. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1 law on the election of county councils and local councils shall read the first paragraph of Section 11-12 as follows: The election board shall settle elections at municipal council elections. [[optional law]] [[1]] The term of office shall be allocated according to St. Lague's modified method under the fourth paragraph of Section 59 of the Constitution.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4075	The President would like to make a reference to proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, to the Municipal Act. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The municipal law shall be amended as follows:§ 16 new paragraph. 6 is replaced by the following: 6. If, during the parliamentary term, a majority of the representatives of the local council resigns from office, supplementary elections shall be held for the remainder of the parliamentary term. Supplementary elections under this provision shall be held as ordinary local government elections in accordance with the provisions of the Election Act. The newly elected local government representatives shall operate in their duties until the coming ordinary local government elections.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4094	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4104	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4128	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4173	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4183	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4225	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4235	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-14-lower.ana.ud427e4246	There is no record.
