ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e32	From the European Parliament’s delegation to the 2002 session of the Council of Europe, Part One, in Strasbourg, there is a permit application signed by the Head of Delegation Haakon Blankenborg. That application concerns the period from 22 January to 24 January of the representatives of Olav Akselsen, Øystein Djupedal, Martin Engeset, Bent Höie, André Kvakkestad, Per Erik Monsen, Jorunn Ringstad, Elsa Scarbøvik and Haakon Blankenborg. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hordaland County, Rita Tveiten, is prevented from meeting under the leave of the representative Olav Akselsen because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Harald EspelundFor Hordaland County: Pål BarrefjordFor Uppland County: Reidun GravedahlFor Rogaland County: Inger Lise AarrestadFor Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Signe NavarseteFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Jørund LeknesFor Vestfold County: Inger Møll and Vidar AndersenFor Østfold County: Gretha Kant2. Inger Møll is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e114	The representative of Mr Øystein Djupedal will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e117	On behalf of the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the equality of spouses and cohabitants in relation to the inheritance law.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e122	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e134	Two new members of the Powers Committee shall be elected to replace members who have joined the Government. The President shall request proposals for new members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e139	I'd like to suggest Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e147	Siri A. Meling has been proposed as a new member of the mandate committee instead of Ansgar Gabrielsen, who has joined the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e150	I suggest May Britt Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e158	May Britt Vihovde has been proposed as a new member of the mandate committee instead of Odd Einar Dørum, who has joined the Government. Other proposals are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e194	There is a reason to start by commending many teachers and schools who are creative and who are doing a lot of exciting development work. Last Tuesday, I visited a primary school in Oslo, where teachers and school management showed great enthusiasm and – not least – glow. They draw much of their inspiration from the Swedish Navestad School, which too many have become a primary school. What's great about many schools that pick up educational ideas from this and other primary schools is that they don't swallow the models raw, but they adapt their reality and their own resources. In this way, these plagiarism/organisational plagiarism will not be the case, but the development projects to which they themselves have an ownership relationship. In schools that try out new organisational and pedagogical training models, there is a strong commitment, where creating a better learning environment is at the centre. Idealism and a recognition that the old is not good enough are the driving force. It is not just individual schools that are doing this. There is extensive development work in Norwegian schools, especially in primary schools. There are many good reasons to give these schools and teachers the encouragement to continue their creative work. It can therefore easily be wrong when, as politicians, we draw a picture of a school in decline, both physically and in terms of content. In the school that I visited, the teachers and the students deserve a working environment and school buildings of a completely different standard than what we offer them. Despite worn-out buildings and a mass of buildings that places strong restrictions on the use of new forms of work, they are able to turn back on traditional ways of thinking. These are schools and teachers using the L97 as the management tool. They are often aware that the subject in L97 is too detailed and comprehensive and therefore provides little room for reflection and local choice of learning material. The emphasis of curricula on different forms of work and individual adaptation of teaching material is commended by the development-oriented teachers and school leaders. For those of us who want to call about a democratic school with increased student exposure and with teachers and school leaders who take students with different abilities and facilities seriously, it is important to hold the idea in the general part of the curriculum and the part that deals with the principles and guidelines of primary school training. Therefore, we should be on guard when comparative studies, which unilaterally take part of the curriculum, conclude that Norwegian students place only slightly above the average in the OECD area. The studies carried out show that Norwegian 10th-classes claim to be well compared with countries with which it is natural to compare. In the case of literacy, Norwegian 10th grades are above average. The same is true of mathematics. In the field of natural sciences, they're pretty accurate on average. This is good in relation to other countries. The serious thing is that it's still that many students don't get the help they should have, and therefore obviously don't have the opportunity to develop their abilities. In short, the school has not been able to facilitate the relationships for these students so that they are stimulated by curiosity and learning. For those who work at school and take this situation seriously, it's not the curriculum that's the target. For these, the answer is to do something about the learning environment — try out new forms of learning, new ways of organizing, in short, creating a school that acknowledges that well-being is the key to learning. Our role is to create the framework conditions that stimulate the creative and enthusiastic teacher. We have a basic school curriculum that has a human vision and a view of learning that takes students' differences seriously – a curriculum that stimulates diversity. We know that the economic conditions in most places don't extend to the fact that we've been starving the schools. We therefore believe that a system of minimum hours must be introduced in each school. It is also time to look at the use of resources, especially the use of funds earmarked for special education, the so-called T-hours. I feel sure that it would be better to donate these resources to the schools, and not link them up to the individual student. Several one-hours are often not the answer for students who have either learning problems or behavioral problems. It usually doesn't help cleaning up more of what doesn't work in these situations. Greater freedom for each school means that these hours are included in the school resource base. It will strengthen the individual school and give it greater freedom of choice to develop good and well-organised arrangements. In addition to curricula and resource frameworks, the central working arrangements and the evaluation, examination and character system restrict the freedom of schools to test out new forms of training. It is our job to change the framework conditions that limit the possibilities for schools to achieve the educational and organisational objectives of their curricula. The reports from the schools that the exams control the learning work too much are clear. There will be too much training directed towards exams and final characters. A character system that puts so much emphasis on the final exam does not build on the most important thing, namely the learning work done at school. How can we expect the students and teachers to use project work and collaboration arrangements, when the students are finally to be tested in an individual examination where the characteristics are crucial? If one is going to continue with ratings, we have to move focus away from sorting and over to learning support. A character system that builds on learning will have a function, and it will not govern the choice of organisation and method in the same way as the current system. We know a lot about this after the evaluation of reform 94. One main finding is that we manage structural changes in a good way, but the content changes are difficult, because we are not willing to take the necessary consequences. We cannot expect new ways of organising the learning work as long as the examination and evaluation forms are developed under other plans and other ways of thinking. An assessment system that evaluates individual pupils’ progress in relation to bet targets will have a purpose, because it builds up the learning process. We know that getting feedback from work done is important to all of us. It gives inspiration, and not least corrects the future ways of working. If such feedback is to have any value, it is to be assumed that the person or persons who is to perform the work and the person who is to correct and evaluate it has a common understanding of what is intended, what is to be achieved. It is therefore crucial for a meaningful evaluation that the person to be evaluated and learn is involved in the planning of the work. In other words, a democratic school where students know the curricula and participate in the planning of work is a prerequisite for a sensible evaluation system. Tribulation is a prerequisite for learning. This is left in conversations with schools and teachers who have a strong commitment to the students. Participation and student participation are essential prerequisites for creating well-being and thus a good learning environment. An assessment system based on the real participation of students, where the learning objective is adapted to the individual student’s abilities and assumptions and aims to be learning support, is an evaluation system we in the SV will have. I am absolutely convinced that such a way of thinking will increase well-being and create ground for good learning. That's the goal of the school, making optimal learning situations for the students. Finally, a little wonder: in discussions with teachers and others, admission to the next educational institution is often used to defend the final exam and to give strong emphasis to a character system to measure pupils in relation to each other. My wonder is why the transferring school feels such a strong responsibility for the next stage of education. I expected that the most important thing, for example. at primary school, will be optimising their own learning environment; yes, I think it is absolutely necessary that we do not take responsibility for the distribution of students in the next stage. If we can break this tape, take away this responsibility, I think a lot has been done to get a proper and thorough discussion about what evaluation should be. We in SV are at least ready for such an extensive discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e228	The question raised by the representative Rikvam concerns the relationship between examination and assessment methods on the one hand and the organisation of the learning work in primary and secondary education on the other. The representative, Rikham, is of the opinion that current forms of examination and assessment can be more obstacles than incentives for creativity and development in training. In particular, this applies to the use of grades as sorting. He asked if I would facilitate extensive trials in which all evaluation should have learning support as a goal. My answer will be in short form: I would like to facilitate more and better evaluation with learning support as a goal, but not all evaluation will only have this as a goal, at least not if we give the concept of learning support a narrow definition. The current syllabus and assessment regulation strongly underlines the importance of the assessment as a basis for learning and development, i.e. as the representative of Rikamm believes it should be. Graded assessment is equated with uncharacterised assessment both in the youth and in secondary education, and student and parental interviews are prescribed. At the level of youth, a professional is required to provide justification and guidance on character. Examinations and departure tests are limited to a few subjects, and oral examinations and departure tests are designed at school level. Screening tests have been developed in reading and mathematics for different stages and character and learning-supporting tests in the written subjects of youth. Experimental activities are carried out at the level of young people with unqualified assessment and in secondary education with alternative forms of examination. However, assessment should also be a guarantee that students have achieved defined learning outcomes. The final assessment at individual level of examination and assessment shall provide information to society, education and working life, ensure the quality of admission further into the education system and give access to different professions, and do so in a manner that meets the requirements of justice and legal certainty of the students. Compared to other countries, our country has a stronger focus on departure documentation as a basis for admission to further education and access to occupations. At system level, results from take-offs and examinations in the absence of own national studies are given relatively high attention, but we lack systems that allow us to use this information as constructively as we should. The representative, Rivamm, is concerned that the position tests and exams can work negatively, almost counterproductively in relation to pupils’ learning. There may be grounds for considering whether to provide evidence of standing and to train for examination dominates the daily assessment work in the school. The completion of the final assessment after completion of primary and post-secondary education, even if the student continues to do so, may increase such focus. With a higher education admission where selection to restricted places of study is made on the basis of character points, the evaluation will be particularly important for students by opening or closing the scope for further education and career opportunities. The purpose of the assessment, to motivate learning, can then be secondary. The advantages of the use of characters are that they are simple, standardised terms that reflect a more complex competence and thus easily allow comparisons at both individual and system level. This means that the student can also compare with himself and record his own progress and decline, even though the character does not tell anything absolute about what the student is mastering. In addition, characters are a relatively easy-to-understand way of communicating results to, for example: the principals of the students. The exam targets and gives seriousness to the students' learning. By arriving at the end of the training, it becomes a real final assessment, contrary to the assessment of its position. New forms of examination with preparation, use of aids, etc. has made it possible to document and assess a broader competence than in the traditional examination. On the other hand, the exam gives the student a limited and slightly random opportunity to document their learning outcomes. Important competences such as: capacity for cooperation, self-employment and responsibility for self-learning cannot be so easily measured by traditional examinations. Thus, it can also give bad signals back to the training on what is important learning for students. However, the question is, as I see it, not the grades and examinations themselves, but the context in which they are included, what they are used for and what competences are used to design examination tests and criteria for assessment. Characterisation and examination should therefore be part of a context in which a continuous assessment is also carried out with learning support as a goal. Let me say a few words about other countries. We see that other countries, such as may be natural to compare ourselves with, are more distinguishing between evaluation measures for different purposes. Finland, which was the highest in the PISA survey, has no primary school examination, but at individual level offers of tests to monitor and assess pupils’ learning outcomes and at system level separate national studies. Sweden does not have an examination at either primary or secondary level, but national tests, which at different stages of training should serve both as a feedback to school and as a basis for national knowledge assessments. But here I think there might be a change. Sweden received a new school minister yesterday, who, according to the commentator at least, places more emphasis on ‘bourgeois virtues’, as it is called, such as exams, grades, knowledge, etc. Denmark, like us, has exams both at primary and secondary levels and no own system for documentation and assessment of learning outcomes at national level. But here too, policy can be changing. England and, in particular, Eastern European countries have developed a comprehensive system of tests for use at system level in addition to examinations. Assessment should, of course, promote the learning and development of students, but will not only provide learning support for individual students as a goal. Assessment must also serve other purposes, such as: be a form of learning support to school leaders, to education administration and to politicians. I want to aim at developing a more differentiated assessment system than today, a system that will seek more to achieve the different objectives of the assessment. Let me mention some measures. Firstly, in order for the assessment to have a better learning effect for the individual student, as the representative of Rikham wishes, I want it to continue to develop both monitoring material and diagnostic material at all levels of training. The purpose here shall be en route assessment with a view to better guidance and learning. Secondly, we also need transparency in terms of learning outcomes at system level, i.e. at school, at municipal and national level, so that authorities and politicians can facilitate a better school. In order to ensure insight and learning at the different levels of governance, I will take the initiative to develop my own national tests or tests to the extent that exams and learning aids cannot also be used for this purpose. Thirdly, in order to benefit from such tests and information, it is also necessary to identify strategies for returning results from both local and national assessments to school levels in order to provide a basis for increasing the quality of education and learning outcomes of students. Fourth, because I don't think we politicians and central governments always know the best, I also focus on the development that happens locally. As far as experimental and development work is concerned, in order to increase diversity and creativity, I want to give more room for action to each school and individual teacher. We need to strengthen local assessment work with alternatives and supplement traditional documentation forms that test and to traditional feedback expressions as grades. In order to strengthen local experimental work, I have delegated decisions on the testing of alternative assessment schemes in primary school to the relevant education office and in secondary education to the Educational Centre. In this context, there is also a need for better learning systems, so that good action can spread from municipality to municipality and from school to school. All in all, I would like to say: we need to develop and test evaluation measures and assessment schemes that can reconcile the learning support function of the assessment and its function as external information in such a way that the two objectives do not come into direct conflict with each other. Mapping assessment is an example of an assessment form that can provide evidence both for an en route learning-supporting assessment and a final assessment without harming any of the objectives. In addition, we can imagine systems of quality assurance for the characterisation of teachers. The aim must be to reconcile a fair and relevant assessment, both for students and for society, working life and education. Finally, a little more personal comment: I don't think our systems today seem ready for the audience. Both forms and purposes of different assessments can be confusing both for students, for parents and for decision-makers. It's in itself, in my opinion, an important task to know what we're doing and why we're doing it. In the context of the quality reform for higher education, there is now a somewhat greater clarity in this for this type of education, and I think we can have something to learn from this reform also in initial training. For example, in 2002, we will set up: a separate accreditation and evaluation body — perhaps not a public name; we will see what we can do about it. This body can therefore recognise and separate studies and institutions and create greater transparency about quality and results. This type of thinking and systematics may also be relevant to initial training. At the end of the day, I would like to mention that the Government has recently reduced a wide-ranging sample that we call the Quality Committee, which is intended to work for improved quality in initial training, and it would be natural that this sample also looks at assessment forms that can be beneficial and constructive, but also assessment forms that have other purposes and additional purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e271	Let me thank the State Council for the answer, that was interesting -- maybe some of the most exciting things I've heard from a State Council in the Ministry of Education for a long time on these issues. The Council of States must be commended for that. I believe that this opens up exciting cooperation between the Council of State and the Stortinget, the Committee, on further development in important and central areas of what we are talking about here today, so I would like to stress that. With regard to the reform we are going to implement for higher education, I agree with the Council of State that there might not be anything to pick up there. I feel that the Stortinget and, to the extent that the Council of State have in the past been aware that we are going to have a content reform in higher education, and have underlined different forms of assessment. When we adopted this, we were concerned that we should get content changes, we also have to do something with the assessment forms, and we underlined, among other things. this with directory rating as an option. I think we can pick up some from there that we can also use in primary and secondary schools. I agree with the Council of State that we probably don't know politicians the best – often we do, but not always. That is why we have also been concerned that we should stimulate schools to experiment and facilitate trials, and the new circular sent out by the Ministry delegates access to decide on different trials. Getting the decisions out is the right way to go. It makes it easier for those schools that want to try out different trials, that they get the opportunity to do this, and it does so more easily and less bureaucratically, so it also needs to be commended to the Council of State for getting started. Overall, I am reasonably satisfied with the answer. I think, as I said, that we can make an exciting development. We may not be able to wait for this quality committee to look at the thirteen-year-old or twelve-year-old — or whatever — course of education. Here we have to keep our speed up, here we have to keep our pressure up. And what's especially important to me is that here in Stortinget we also manage to keep the pressure up, so that the schools that like to – I see that there's a need to make changes, we have to open up different attempts – feel that it's a pressure, and that they also have support. Finally, we in SV have previously suggested that we should also have a carrot sometimes that can stimulate various trials in schools. We had a proposal once to have a development pot that schools could apply for, and it's a proposal that I'll come back to on a later occasion, in order to stimulate different projects. But overall, I think we can go into an exciting future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e284	The President will assume that this relatively positive evaluation was intended as learning support and not as a final evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e287	Let me first thank you for the nice response from the representative, Rikvam, and then I will just make a few comments to his last post. The quality committee shall be allowed to work for approx. A year and a half, but this should not prevent us from taking initiatives in the meantime. Something else would be pointless. I've prepared that for the sample. We're also going to have such a good dialogue with the sample that you don't run into each other. Part of the initiatives I have now mentioned in my article, therefore, I will of course be able to take independently of the work of the committee, or in consultation with them. What I think will be a kind of recurring dilemma for us is that there is quite a broad consensus that we should delegate and leave more to local decisions in order to take advantage of the enthusiasm and knowledge available at the individual school, and hopefully also in the individual municipality, while, of course, having some control at national level that we are doing the right things. Then we need to figure out what we have to control centrally. It should be less detailed, in my opinion. Do we have to steer centrally, and what quality assurance do we have to have at national level? That's some of what I mentioned in my post. I also aim to develop better quality assurance systems. I can say to the representative, Reikvam, that I have started the investigation of what is simply a school bonus scheme, which is an addition to the means we have for quality development, which I think is very positive and stimulating for the schools around. Maybe we can get other positive arrangements as well. It was, in a sense, voted down here in the course of the budgetary procedure, but I do not think it is an expression of the opposition of the representative, Mr Requam. This we have started to investigate, and I hope that we can set up a test scheme relatively soon to stimulate all the positive work that is going on in schools. Finally, a few words about the OECD study on which the representative, Mr Reikvam, was also involved in his main contribution. How relevant is it for Norwegian conditions? My impression is that the Norwegian researchers who have been involved in this work – and I stress that this is very solid research – emphasise that this is actually quite relevant to Norwegian curricula. It may not be as relevant for all countries, but for Norway this is actually quite relevant. The second thing – I just have to mention it – is that I've seen a lot of newspaper posts that suggest that these little bad results, that we're average, because we've integrated practically all children and young people in Norwegian school, and that it makes it a little difficult to be on top. But this factor is taken into account when you come up with the results, so you can say that it's purely research-oriented, it's corrected for the fact that you have slightly different school systems and different school policies. My opinion is that you can always discuss how bad it is, or how disappointed you should be about average results. I have the opinion that if you're a education politician, or if you're a parent, a teacher or a school manager, you have a duty to work for ever better education for our children and young people. This means that they need to gain more knowledge, but also that they need to thrive better when they go to school, because it's a prerequisite for learning. That's my starting point. I'm not leaning back with such average results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e298	For the Workers' Party, it is an important principle to provide society with a public common school, where training is adapted to individual needs and is open to flexibility and variation. Education policy is about giving each individual opportunity and opportunity to pursue its objectives and realise its potential on the basis of individual assumptions. One of the main questions here is what action should be taken to achieve the goal of ensuring everyone's learning and how to promote learning that is motivating. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that there are several factors affecting the learning of students: forms of teaching, staff, physical conditions and cooperation between home and school and other institutions and organisations. The rights of students in relation to the development of learning are important. They represent a large resource in the form of experiences and opinions. The keyword is the student in the center, the learning in the center, and that students and teachers need to work together on learning. There are today opportunities for schools to apply for trials, cf. the training law. This applies, inter alia, to: flexible organisation of pupils. Here's a potential for improvement. We have to get better at using the opportunities at school to organize the teaching for the individual. An important principle is adapted training, ensuring equal education for all students by meeting differently. I agree with the inter-pellant that this work needs to be stimulated more, inter alia. through the provision of continuing training for all teachers and information to schools on development work taking place around the country. Many teachers also call for opportunities for professional development, and here the working time agreement with the possibility of testing out the new working time system is an important factor. Here, too, the expected message of teacher training will play an important role, as the teacher is at the heart of development. We want each student to have the opportunity to develop with an adapted education offer, and we want to have a fairest possible evaluation of the student's work and performance. We don't want to break down the character system, but we want to develop it further and improve it. We are positive about the work started to develop different ways of assessing pupils, pupils and schools in terms of the benefits of training, attitudes and mastering. International and national studies on learning outcomes are useful tools, but individual results should not be overfocused. In terms of assessment, the main objective is to increase the quality of learning. Speaking of tools for learning, I would also like to mention here and point out the potential of ICT in learning, and that there are many opportunities in the new information technology. Development work at school, especially for alternative forms of education, is important, but I also think it is necessary to remember that some development work is being carried out in school in relation to evaluation and evaluation. It was shown here by examples both from the inter-pellant and from the Council of State. Good experience must be gathered and disseminated throughout the school system. We all want a good school for our children and young people. I believe that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of education policy, and we must maintain it. Then we separate layers in individual questions. There are obvious shortcomings in the Norwegian school system, physical environment and content, but there are also a lot of positive aspects, and I think that's the main picture. My appeal is that in the political discussion we do not use examples of shortcomings in blackmailing the state of the Norwegian school. It doesn't benefit the development towards an even better school, where we're going to bring with us both school, teachers, students and parents. After the round we've had here for the time being, I'm positive and optimistic for the further discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e317	It is an important matter for the representative of Rikvam to address in today’s interview. High quality in school is important, and if we are to achieve it, we need to be conscious of the forms of education and of the forms of assessment. In primary school, which is the type of school I know best after 27 years at school, there is a lot of creative and exciting development work. New forms of teaching are tested and evaluated. The aim of any measure is to increase the well-being of students and to increase their learning – learning understood in the word broadest meaning. Without that objective, development work would be meaningless. In order to create the necessary motivation for development work, it is important that schools be given greater opportunity to organise their own education and to find their own best practice for each school. If we are to meet the objective of providing all students with an adapted education offer, freedom of action for schools is a prerequisite. And that means that schools should also manage the additional time resources, the B-hour or T-hour resources, as they call it. However, maintaining the current evaluation and testing system is in the Right’s view no obstacle to giving schools greater freedom of action. We believe that grades are important for giving students and parents feedback about the students' professional development. How many and how often samples are questionable. No one here can invoke the truth. The individual teacher must determine the scope of the test in each class. However, the Right insists that nationwide standardised tests in Norwegian, math and English are necessary at the youth level, while compulsory tests should be carried out to check whether the students actually achieve the necessary skills in reading and writing. However, we must not exaggerate the importance of organisational reforms alone. The important thing is that students learn what they are meant to learn, and what they have the prerequisites for learning — not how they learn it. If this is to succeed, creativity in education must be developed by giving schools the freedom they need, and there must be wide access to pedagogical differentiation in each class. Finally, the representative Reikvam uses the word ‘learning’ for what is always before high education. I would like to stress that for me there is nothing negative in the word ‘education’ – perhaps because as a teacher I have been in charge of this teaching. For me, teaching doesn't mean passive students sit and receive wisdom from a dosing teacher, and then reproduce it in a parrotish way. For me, the concept of education includes a great deal of students' self-activity, and it's been a very, very long time since we had a school where the ideal was passive, listening, reproducing students. We have a school where there is creativity in relation to teaching methods, and this creativity must be maintained and further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e330	Government posts were good music in the ears of the Progress Party. That's why with some wonder I observe that the Socialist Left Party is obviously of the same opinion. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Workers' Party does not want to liquidate the grades right now. Instead of going into the details of the representative, Mr Requam, I would like to point out that the school, its parents, its students and, in particular, its teachers have a legitimate right to obtain objective and measurable evaluation forms, and not least understandable and acceptable to all those who consider themselves to be users of the school and the school's results. I cannot pretend that the SV's representative in his interpellation text meets such professional criteria. Is it really that pedagogics and framework conditions can hinder the creativity of public schools? In the post, he praises all the creative teachers. This is contradictory. The representative, Rikham, further points out that the reading and writing skills as well as the mathematics skills of Norwegian children are above the average of the results of the OECD report presented. The representative Rikvam claims that the Norwegian results are good. But when every fifth student does not have sufficient knowledge to read an understanding newspaper, it is a system error, in the opinion of the Progress Party! Under the Training Act, all students are entitled to an adapted training — an individual training. The Progress Party is very concerned with the evaluation of all training, and we have made several proposals based on objectivity and quality, which have been voted down by an overwhelming majority. We are also concerned about the legal certainty of users, which is obviously inadequate. The legal cases that now appear at quite a pace, and the increasing illiteracy is a clear signal of this. The problems associated with obtaining justice through the ordinary judiciary are also obvious, because the evaluation criteria cannot be considered objective and measurable. In conclusion, for many years I had the joy of following Darwin P. Erlandsen's cheerful pen in the Newspaper when he elegantly undressed and made clear tumors and empty phrases. Unfortunately for many of us, he has put the pen down, so we no longer get a comment on, for example. contributions by the representative of Rikham to this evaluation debate. We are comforted that Darwin P. Erlanden's successors will obviously have busy days.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e343	It is the President’s specific impression that the type of comment activity has been acquired by the TV media, with varying degrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e346	The quality debate in school is important, and today's theme is part of this debate. In the contributions of the representative, I experienced that the representative focused strongly on the relationship between evaluation forms and forms of learning. I find reason to warn against overestimating the governance of evaluation methods on learning modes. Today, I feel that the evaluation forms depend on what is now happening in everyday school life in terms of learning forms. This should mean that evaluation methods do not govern learning methods. So we need to keep working on these. I think that the Council of State here has a constructive approach, which I and the Christian People's Party support. I noticed that, in my opinion, the representative Rikvam also expressed some surprise at the statements made by the Council of State. I am very pleased with what the Council of State has said. In the Christian People's Party, we want to renew school content and organization. We need learning forms that support the active student. This will increase learning outcomes, and we need a quality assurance system. I agree with the Council of State when she says that the question is not a yes or no to grades or exams themselves, but in what context they are included, what they are used for, and what competence is used to design exams and criteria for assessment. Questions may be asked about the correct use of resources in the evaluation work. The Christian People's Party wishes to focus more on the evaluation work in the process rather than the final evaluation. That's why I support the thoughts that the Council of State had about directory evaluation. However, we need resources for the evaluation work, and therefore the budget cut majority did for 2002, without describing changes in the evaluation work, a little surprising and incomprehensible to me. Yes, this is incomprehensible to me. Finland has concentrated its assessment of learning skills, learning motivation and communication skills in primary schools. In my opinion, Finland is thinking about the evaluation and evaluation work quite excitingly. They are engaged in checking whether there is a goal achievement in mother tongues and mathematics, while in other subjects they may have national professional tests, but also interdisciplinary tasks. This is an exciting thought that I think it's worth thinking about whether we can also make better use of in Norway. Therefore, I am very pleased when the Council of State says that we need to think more differently about the assessment work. We should reward schools that run well. We should have a school-based assessment, but with a national system for obtaining and restoring results. We need to disseminate information about the assessment work to other schools, but whether this work needs to be done independently of the ministerial system, for example. in a separate school supervisor, I doubt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e358	I would like to begin by commending the representative, Mr Requam, for raising a very important debate, which is in a way one of the core debates in the discussion on school policy in the future. I would also like to commend the Council of State for being innovative and open to new ideas in this area. I may not think it is a parliamentary expression to say that there can be rock and roll in school policy now, but I have some expectations about it anyway. The left does not have a fanatical relation to grades; we are neither fanatical about nor fanatical about. But if we are to develop quality in school, it requires us to also develop quality objectives. If the school is to get better, we need to have knowledge of the levels of the individual. For example, in Oslo School, 33 pst. by pupils of a native language other than Norwegian when they start school. Today, we do not have a good system to measure the level of their Norwegian knowledge in the development of everyday school life. If we're going to make a good offer to these students, we're going to have to develop that kind of quality goal. I very much agree with the representative Rikvam on what he said about special education. Today we have good teachers who write applications, very good PPT staff who evaluate the applications, and then to give money to unskilled assistants who don't know how to work with these kids. That means we're using all the skills and resources to process paper, and then we're using those with the least competence, the ones we least spend on, to treat the kids. The left believes that the next school reform must come from below and up, not as the Labour Party put in place, a lot of top-down reforms. Then you have to let the school go. I think we have to get rid of the illusion that school is equal everywhere in the country. Clearly, with my background from Øysletta school, I have a different competence than a child who has attended the Old Town school. That doesn't mean that one competence is worth more than the other, but you have to admit that it's different. Today, we have a school system that is extremely rule-driven. It has something to do with the joy that this hall has had over ruling, but it also has to do with the fact that we largely organise the teaching that we did 200 years ago. That means we have a class in a classroom, a given number of students who are the same age, and then we have a teacher. What is it that says that all eight-year-olds should be in the same class? What is it that says that everyone should start school at the same time? What's it saying that gymnasiums are going to be rectangular? I think we have to ask all these basic questions in relation to all the truths given about school policy. Finally, I would like to include some ideas from Sogn High School, which has used School 2000 as a model in the development of two professional classes. There are the two classes that have been merged, which have their core time, stamping time, project work, full responsibility for their own learning, where teachers only have office time in the classroom, where students assess their seas and propose character after a written assessment of their seas, then get a written assessment back by teachers, where teachers conclude by character. We in the Left believe that there are a lot of teachers around who have lots of ideas about how things could have been better done, and they're the ones who have to be released if we're going to get a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e373	I am convinced that SV, like the Right, also want a good school, where students thrive, where they can develop their creative skills and skills, and where they can learn their skills in the best possible way. So far I think that the Right and SV agree fairly. But when it comes to emphasising the different parts of the content of the school, that the school should be primarily a place to learn and not necessarily just a place to be, and in terms of the use of different educational instruments in this context, our paths are distinguished. It may seem that the interpellant believes that only enough reforms are being introduced in school, only enough testing is being carried out, wasted on proven and proven teaching methods and, in particular, removing the characteristics as an assessment form, then everything will be much better in school. Of course it's not like that. For the right, it is in this area that, in most of the other areas of society, it is not a question of either — or, but of both — and. It is not the case that the interpellant claims that grades as an assessment form govern all teaching activities and hinder creativity and development. Nor is it the case that so-called traditional education is old-fashioned or outsourced. In many disciplines and in many teaching contexts, traditional teaching in interaction between the good and committed professionals and the students provides very good results, including with characteristics as an evaluation form. Therefore, the Right wants to maintain and develop grades as a educational tool and objective assessment criterion in the school to a greater extent than SV. Grades provide measurable and comparable results of effort and work to individual students, parents, individual teachers and schools, as well as help to ensure legal certainty for each student. For the right, it is an overall goal to improve the professional quality of school. Therefore, we need to have as objective, measurable and comparable results as possible. This, of course, does not prevent either experimentation, creativity or the use of alternative educational instruments. The right has great confidence in the individual teacher and in the individual school, and will give greater freedom to local experimentation and creativity in relation to pedagogical work. After today's debate, it may appear that SV in this field is reasonably in agreement with the Right. In order to develop the quality of school even better, the Right Council wishes to introduce a national school supervision system, which can both provide advice and guidance to each school and school owner on the necessary measures that should be taken to improve quality, as well as to provide advice to national authorities on the status and status of the Norwegian school communities. I hope that SV will also be involved in assessing this measure in order to make the school even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e386	After hearing the Council of State and also the representative Jan Olav Olsen, I was reasonably excited quite a long time here, but after the last post, from Søren Fredrik Voie, we were back to old rhetoric. And I don't know if either Right or SV comes so much longer if we're going to stick to old rhetoric. I felt therefore that I was from being high up suddenly coming down abruptly again, and it was not so very pleasant. So some comments on what has been said. It is true that I consistently use the term ‘learning work’. «Teaching», I feel, puts us a little back into that situation, it's at least related to it, which I think is important that we should distance ourselves from. The language is important, and finding words that are comprehensive for what we're trying to say is important, and therefore I use quite deliberately the word "learning work" and speak less about teaching. We know a good deal about the role of characters in relation to teaching. This has been studied, this has been investigated, and I would urge the representative of Voie to read the evaluation of Reform 94, where the answer is fairly clear that the examination system, the character system, is governing. We don't get to the content changes that we're concerned with, and then the researchers try to point to the cause, and here the characters are one of the reasons. It's a fact, at least if we're going to believe in research. I don't think we should break down the rating system; I don't say that. But what's important, as the Council of State and also others were in it, is that the use of grades is going to reconstruct learning. That's the point of using the rating system. To stimulate, help and guide the entire learning process, that's the goal of the characters. We can use different grades, but when it comes to the evaluation system, we all know that when we're in a work process and we've done a lot of work where we've been with and defined goals, etc., we think it's okay, and when someone says that this went well, we got it, we did it, we've achieved the goals we set. That way, we can have a character system. I think there's some of that that we've been into here. Some people want to go further than others, but I feel that we can now start on a process, we can get into a right path. And then finally this with the comparative OECD studies. I agree with the Council of State that the PISA study seems very proper and very thorough. That's not my point. My point was that if not Norwegian students are always at the top of all possible international comparative studies, we may not be doing a bad job in Norwegian school. I think it's pretty good that we're pretty much above average, and we're better off than many that we can compare with. That was the point. But as long as there are some students who don't get enough learning environment, we have a lot of work to do. But that's because of the individual student and not because they happen to have ended up on average or a little bit above average.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e399	If there can be any consolation for the interpellant, the president will just notice that it is relatively common for things to go up and down here in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e402	Let me just make a few closing remarks. Firstly, I would encourage schools to carry out continuous development work, including on good evaluation methods and learning-supporting assessment methods. I believe that even if we want to simplify these trial procedures, we still have a task of simplifying Norwegian school. I also want to say that the space for action is sometimes larger than you might think, and that it is important that this space for action is also exploited by the schools. I was the other day visiting Ringstack school, which is a rather familiar school for many, because it has been a kind of experimental school for many years. They do a lot of experimental and exciting, but they can also show good results. So they have exemptions from working time contracts – where I think they operate under the most radical experimental variant, and they could never operate as they do without it. But they actually don't have any other attempts, so they're operating within the space of action that's there. And on Ringstick there are 60 students in each class – if you can call it a class – and they are creatively exploiting the hourly resource. So even though I feel a strong pressure to simplify in Norwegian school – we should definitely do – it is also an important message that there is a space for action that you can take advantage of. That's the first thing I would say. The second is that this creativity that we want, it must – and that was my message in the main post – also be accompanied by a certain quality assurance and a certain quality control, whether I can use such an expression. It's also been my message that here we need better systems for that. Especially when we want to decentralize and encourage creativity, we, as politicians, parents, students, etc., have some national security for achieving results. Some people here have talked about school supervision, and some have said that they have been skeptical about it. I'm just saying, I want to keep working on this and I want to get back to that kind of quality assurance. And let me give you an example. No one here seems to be against grades, but it's important to have a nuanced relationship with this. I think grades are all right, but it also has its constraint, and that is what we need to be aware of. I'll give you an example of that. Today, a student may be out of high school with very good grades and still have too little knowledge to study. Then there's something wrong with the system that we as adults should be interested in, because it's clear that if you go out of high school with good grades, you should be ready to start a study. This might indicate that we may need some kind of quality assurance of characterisation or other quality assurance systems. So finally, Vidar Bjørnstad said we should not paint Norwegian school. And that's right, we can't do that. Very often when we talk, we talk about average considerations, and there are huge variations. It is very good that happens in Norwegian school, but we cannot hide that it is all for, namely adapted training, a mantra without content for very many students in Norwegian school. And we have to take that seriously. Poor students fall even more outside, and good students – to use that kind of expression – are not given the opportunity to stretch as much as they would like. It shows this OECD study, and it's serious. I think parents and students who are old enough to articulate themselves want three things of Norwegian school: they want knowledge, they want security, and they want security for knowledge. If this is our goal, we also have to be interested in how we can achieve the goals and in what direction we're going, and then we have to have some measuring tools to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e415	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-17.ana.ud1901e426	There is no record.
