ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e43	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e52	In the 55 years that have passed, the law has been patched up a number of times by the introduction of new provisions. Child protection is the main transmission system for families with children, and therefore, inter alia, the Ministry proposes that child protection should continue to be regulated in its own law. The proposal for a new law does not involve substantial material changes, but in some areas simplifications of the legislation have been proposed which give rules a slightly different content than under current law. The purpose of the child benefit is to contribute to the cost of caring for children. It is proposed that the Children’s Rights Act be made more gender-neutral with regard to who is entitled to social benefits when the child is living with both parents. The child benefit is proposed to the applicant. Such a change would be in line with the legislation in neighbouring areas. As a general rule, the child’s fear of newborns is automatically granted to the mother of the child, so it will continue to be the mother who receives the child’s pension in most cases. However, this would not prevent child welfare from being paid to a father if the parents wanted it. It is proposed that the right to family benefits when staying abroad is linked to whether the child’s parents are insured in Norway in accordance with the rules laid down in the Law on Social Security. All families closely linked to Norway in the form of social security schemes will subsequently be able to enjoy the right to family benefits while living abroad. Current legislation grants such rights only to selected groups. The majority of the Committee agrees that the right to share children’s rights in cases where the parents have agreed that the child should have a divided residence shall be governed by law. A prerequisite for sharing will be an agreement between the child’s parents according to the rules of § 35(a) of the Children’s Act, which makes it clear that the child must have a divided residence. In these cases, the child's health will be divisible by 50 pst. to each of the parents provided that they so request. Simplifications are proposed in the regulation on the right to child protection for one child more than the actual number of children, i.e. extended child welfare. The central condition for entitlement to extended social benefits is that the lone parent lives alone with children without being able to share household expenses with spouses or cohabitants. Although concepts other than those used in current legislation are used in the proposal, the intention behind the rules is the same. It is that of the child’s parents who have their child permanently living with them and who are single-minded dependants, who are to benefit from extended child welfare. The Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs proposes that the same rules for the payment and disposal of child benefits apply to children in foster homes and children's institutions as to other children. Child insurance shall then be paid to the child's parents or to the child protection institution in which the child lives, and the child's pension will also be a grant for these children for ongoing maintenance. The majority of the Committee agrees because this is in accordance with the principle of equality. Children shall enjoy equal rights irrespective of their care. From the adoption of child welfare in 1946 until 1 May 2000, child welfare was granted to children under the age of 16. With effect from 1 May 2000, child benefit is granted until the child reaches the age of 18. If the child’s parents are divorced or separated, the benefit is paid to the parent with whom the child lives permanently. In practice, it has been suggested today that child-rescue can be shared if it has been demonstrated that one parent has the child in his/her home for at least 40 pst. of the total time. Problems may arise in practice in relation to the requirement that, in addition to agreeing on a split-dwelling agreement under the Children’s Act, § 35(a), parents must also agree that the child’s rights should be shared. The Ministry, having further assessed, has concluded that it is not appropriate to require that, in addition to agreeing on a shared-dwelling agreement, parents should also agree that children’s rights should be shared. For the Workers' Party, the best thing for the child is everything else. The Labour Party, in its 2002 budget proposal from the Stoltenberg Government, signalled that we will review the entire system for the calculation of social assistance in 2002. The working party will await the question of whether child benefit is to be regarded as income for the calculation of social assistance, so that this can be assessed by a comprehensive review. I would like to raise a proposal which is distributed on the table of the representatives, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party: ‘The Government is asking for a comprehensive review of the system for the calculation of social assistance, including an assessment of whether child welfare and cash support are to be regarded as income for the calculation of social assistance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e94	The representative Eirin Fallet has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e97	The rapporteur, Eirin Fallet, has now given a good account. There is a broad consensus on this law in the committee, but I would nevertheless like to make a few brief comments on some of the proposals contained in the proposal from the Government. As the Advocate General also pointed out, today's Children's Rights Act has not been subject to a total review since it was adopted in 1946, but it has been patched up by the inclusion of new provisions. Therefore, this law has been characterized by heavy and old-fashioned language and poor structure, making it difficult to fully practice. It is therefore time for a simplification of rules and a targeted childcare system to be adapted to current needs, which will contribute to a simple and transparent law that is understandable and accessible to the beneficiaries, while at the same time making it easier to practise for the social security system. The proposal states that the purpose of the family allowance is that it should be income-balancing for the benefit of families with children and that it should contribute to the cost of caring for children. We therefore agree with the ministry that this is a strong argument for keeping the child-rescue system in its own law and that it is not being incorporated into the People's Security Act. With regard to the central amendments to the proposal, the Right is very pleased that it is proposed that child-restraint should be made gender-neutral, i.e. that there will be no obstacle to the payment of child benefit to father if the parents so wish. We believe that this is a proper step towards real equality between parents. It is also positive that all families closely associated with Norway in the form of social security schemes can subsequently enjoy the right to family benefits while living abroad. This will include, inter alia: contribute to addressing the problems faced by Norwegian families of children moving within the EEA area in particular with current legislation. It is also important that the child-rescue legislation is adapted to shared care solutions, which more and more parents choose after a break in life. The right is therefore very positive that this opens up the possibility that the child’s pension can be shared between the parents when there is an agreement that the child should stay at 50 pst. of the time of each parent. Finally, I would like to stress that we are very pleased with, among other things. the simplification provided for by the Ministry in the legislation governing the right to extended child protection, where the basic idea is that it is that of the child's parents who are resident in the child and who are single-parents, who are to benefit from this scheme. With regard to the proposal from the Labour Party, the Right will not support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e116	It's always good when you change to simplify, and it's done in parts of the bill that's now under consideration. The fact that you have a purpose, an intention with the law, is good, and although it may seem unnecessary, it is an important clarification that child welfare should go to cover child care expenses. The fact that the law is to be made more gender-neutral is certainly not to be despised, as this gives fathers the opportunity to become more visible in relation to the child and thus also to strengthen their position. In the case of children living outside Norway, the Progress Party considers that the law is still somewhat unclear. We want to make it clear that there are children of Norwegian citizens and citizens living in the EEA territory, and no one else, who have the right to child protection. This is in order to ensure that those who receive child benefit and live abroad are actually entitled to it. Otherwise, the Progress Party has registered with pleasure that now from the department an acceptance is given that the children actually cost as much regardless of whether they live 50 pst. of the time of one or another of the parents following a break in a life. This is a step in the right direction, but the Progress Party believes that in order for this to be a proper cost distribution, child benefit should be paid according to the percentage of each parent’s association with his or her child. And if you think that the children have the right to two parents, you have to set things right and stimulate more association. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that the Government promote the necessary legislative amendments to make this possible. In the case of children who are resident in an institution or in foster parents, the amendment proposes that the child’s pension should now be granted to the institution or the foster family with which the child lives. But the thing is that the price paid by the municipalities to the institution is already the cost of having the child there. And in the case of foster families, the cost coverage of the child is usually in the child's own mail. In other words, it has already been taken into account that the child costs something, and that the foster home is covered by child protection. In addition to the fact that a number of children do not stay for a long time in the same institution or in the same foster family, unfortunately, this does not seem to simplify the payment of child benefit — rather on the contrary. You end up having to hire more people in the social security system just to keep track of where the children the public is responsible for are, and who should have paid child benefits. In some cases, even though the children are in an institution, their parents also retain their child’s rights and thus do not cost their parents anything. This seems unreasonable to the Progress Party, and we therefore propose the following proposals: ‘The ruling shall, by means of legislative proposals, ensure that, as soon as a decision on care is taken and implemented, the payment of child benefit to the parent who may receive it is stopped until the child is returned to him.’;» With regard to the proposal put forward by the Labour Party to the representative Eirin Faldet, the Progress Party cannot join in this, but expects the Government to return to it in the family communication. There are very different practices in Norway as to whether or not family allowances are to be counted as income. Among other things, in Bergen, where I come from, child-rescue is not included. It's being kept out of the way. So there's a need to review the regulations that already exist, and to get more stringent control over the fact that the municipalities have similar practices. I am therefore in favour of the three proposals on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e140	The representative Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e143	Today’s child benefit law has not been subject to a total review since its adoption in 1946. The proposal for a new law is a simpler law that is more understandable. Child protection is the most important transfer system for families with children, and we agree with the Ministry that child protection should be regulated in its own law. The purpose of the child benefit is to cover the cost of depending on the child. Child protection has not been price or pay adjusted since 1996. SV does not want child welfare to be used as a balancing item, and we made proposals in the budget last year to automatically adjust child welfare every year. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for this. Child protection is the most important and targeted measure for cash transfer to families with children, and it is very unfortunate that it depends on an annual budgetary procedure. SV also promoted in the budget, as part of improving the situation of poor families with children, increased child welfare for third and fourth children, and we believe that it is unreasonable to count child welfare as income in the calculation of social assistance. It is positive that the Ministry will work to confirm that child benefit is intended to cover child care costs and that it is not to be calculated as a right in relation to the employee, in the same way as other social security benefits. For the treatment of Inster. O. No 51 for 2000-2001 the SV and the Centre voted against the amendment of the law which allows an EEA citizen residing in his or her country of origin to be entitled to Norwegian child benefit without the child or family having ever put his or her legs on Norwegian soil. SV believes that child welfare should be managed as before for children who are not raised with their family. However, for children raised in foster parents, there should be scope for simplifying the legislation on the use of child protection in cooperation with the protection of children. We do not want any change, because the legislation here seems unclear. The Ministry proposes, on the one hand, that a review be carried out of the foster home allowance system in order to prevent foster parents from being covered twice by the same costs, both in the form of foster home allowance and in the form of child welfare. This shall be seen together in the case of foster parents. But what the ministry thinks about child protection institutions seems very unclear. What the Ministry says is that child benefit is intended to cover child care costs, but it does not signal the same review of child welfare benefits and grants to child protection institutions. It may seem that the institutions here are given a supplement which is the child's and which is not to be documented. Many of the child protection institutions are very expensive, and here they get an additional income. SV believes that as long as there are so many uncertainties, the legislation should not be amended, but should benefit from the child’s right to exceptional outlays and savings in your own account paid when the child is 18 years old, as has been the practice so far. The practice of mother keeping child’s peace despite her loss of care for the child is unfortunate. Child protection should be suspended once care takeover decisions have been taken and measures have been put into effect. SV agrees that it is necessary to legislate the right to share child welfare in cases where the parents have shared residence, by 50 pst. Whether to automatically As I said, SV would like to keep child welfare out of the calculation of social assistance. Of course, we support the proposal we are making together with the Workers' Party and the Centre for a review of the system to assess whether child welfare and cash support are to be regarded as income for the calculation of social assistance. We will also signal that SV will support proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e166	The central party supports the billing proposal. So I'm just going to associate a few short comments with the option. I have noticed that in several debates there has been a signal from the ministry, from the government, to keep cash out of the income by calculating social assistance. The same signal I haven't registered when it comes to child welfare. As we all know, don't ask social distress for age. Two teenage children may be as resource demanding as two children under the age of three. Unlike cash support, child welfare benefits will benefit all children. It seems important to me to notice all the time we know that there are 70,000 children living below what we define as the poverty line. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to take note of the proposal put forward by the representative Fallet, and to ask that it be seriously assessed by the ministry in the further work on the calculation of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e175	On 24 October 1946, child protection was adopted by a unanimous increase following a long and, in part, stirring debate which had lasted for nearly 30 years. Child welfare is often characterised as our first universal social security scheme, with the same benefit to all regardless of income. In the years that have passed, child-restraint has been the main and largest transfer scheme for families with children and a central instrument for compensating for additional costs related to child-responsibilities. As an adaptation to the fact that the vast majority of our days are in education beyond primary school, children’s pension was extended to 18 years from 1 May 2000. In 1998, we introduced a system of automatic granting of child benefit to newborns, which has contributed to a more user-friendly child welfare system. The inclusion of the child-restraint allowance from 2001 onwards has contributed to the simplification of the transfer arrangements. The proposal for a new child benefit law under consideration by Odelstinget today will contribute to further simplification. The government wants to continue the family allowance as a general, non-needed social benefit scheme to cover all children and benefit all families with children. The applicable child benefit law has never been subject to a total review before. In the 56 years that the law has existed, it has been patched up a number of times by the introduction of new provisions. This has led to unnecessary scope of law and regulations and poor regulatory structure. As a result, the Ministry started work in 1998 on a total revision of the legislation with a view to a more time-consuming provision of child protection legislation. The revision of the Children’s Rights Act has been based on the same principles and objectives as in the work on new people’s rights. The main objective has been to design legislation so as to make it as widely available to users as possible and to facilitate the practice of the social security system. A simple and clear language and the incorporation of regulations into the law have been the main instruments. The legislative proposal has been at public consultation and has been widely supported in the consultation round. I am pleased that the committee is also joining in the proposal, although there is some disagreement on some points. I am very pleased that we are now getting a child welfare law that is more gender-neutral in its design than the current law. Under today's legislation, child protection is a motherhood scheme, and the new law involves modernisation at this point. When the child is living with both parents, parents shall be able to decide for themselves which of them shall be the recipients of the child’s pension. Another important innovation is that the right to family benefits in the event of a stay abroad should be linked to whether the child’s parents are insured in Norway in accordance with the rules laid down in the Law on Social Security. All families closely related to Norway in the form of social security schemes will be entitled to child benefit during foreign residence. Today's legislation grants such rights only to selected groups, and that has not been fair. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party wish to limit the possibility of receiving child benefit in the event of a foreign stay by laying down conditions of Norwegian citizenship or EEA citizenship. Citizenship is not, in my view, the best criterion for the relationship between the child and Norway. Those who are a member of the social security system contribute to the financing of social security, and the condition of membership in the social security system ensures in a better way than citizenship that everyone closely associated with Norway is entitled to child benefit. The current specific rules for the payment and disposal of child benefits for children in foster homes and institutions are proposed. Childcare will then also be a subsidy for these children for continuous care. A minority in the Committee propose that no child benefit be paid to children for whom public responsibility lies. Such a proposal violates the principle that child protection should be a general social welfare scheme covering all children. It is proposed that the right to share the child’s rights when the child has shared his/her place of residence be legalised. In order to obtain the most simple and manageable rule, it is stipulated that a division of the family allowance is to be made by half to each of the parents if there is a shared-dwelling agreement in accordance with the rules of the Children's Act. The Party of Progress shall make provision for the proportion of children’s rights to be respected in the event of association. First of all, such a rule would be very difficult to administer. Moreover, getting together with children does not necessarily say anything about how the cost of the child’s entertainment is distributed between parents. On the other hand, a shared-dwelling agreement according to the rules of the Children’s Act requires a sharing of the entertainment expenses and a sharing of the child’s rights by half on each of them is well-harmonised. All in all, I believe that the new Children's Rights Act will be an appropriate tool that can help to ensure that children's rights can also defend their position in the future as the pillar of the transfer arrangements for families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e205	This is a setting with a very broad consensus. Across all of the party lines, we're pretty much in agreement with everything here. However, since this payment has come up as a proposal, I would like to ask you how the payments are done when the decision on taking care is taken and implemented. How does that happen? Is there any basis for believing that payments are not traced to the caregiver? Since this has come up, I allow myself to ask about it. As I understand it, it is the caregiver and caregiver registered at all times that will have the funds. Then I want to know if there is any experience that this is happening in another way, and that there is a basis for believing that the money is paid to the wrong carer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e210	The rules are such that once care is adopted, parents lose the right to child protection. That's the rules. And when foster children are moved, they are notified to the population register and social security offices. We have not been informed that this is a problem. We don't have to do anything to make sure that this happens. There are arrangements that are well-managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e215	Then I'm going to have to update the council a little bit. In Bergen, this is actually a big problem. Children's protection offices in the various cities and municipalities are required to notify the Social Security Office of the adoption of decisions to take care of them. This is not being done because of extremely high labour pressure and high levels of work in child protection offices, and child-restraint is being unfairly extended for quite some time. It may be many months before it is notified to the social security office. Bergen Social Security said during a conversation that it might speed them up if we got this into the law. So to citizenship -- that's where I was going to ask a question to the Council of State. We have said that citizenship is an important tool, and we can also see it as an economic tool to prevent minors from being sent to their parents' home country to be co-married. Can't the Council of States also see that this can be an instrument that makes us maybe get rid of some of the things that are up in time right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e222	As far as the first is concerned, I am not aware that there have been such problems in Bergen, but it is clear that as a government council I should perhaps make contact in relation to having this investigated. I'll do that. As far as citizenship is concerned, I suppose I can just repeat what I have said, that I understand the issue of the Progress Party and perhaps now even more the background to why it is proposed. But when we've looked at it, and when I've gone into it in the last few days, I've also found that it's better that this is allowed for those who have a connection to Norway through social security, and that just having citizenship can possibly make more people actually want to have the right to child protection. So I'm not so sure the proposal is that good.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e229	I have a question for the Council of State. Children in foster homes and child-rescue institutions are receiving child-responsive care today, but the use of the money must be documented. They may be used for bicycles, galleys, etc. in consultation with the protection of children. The Ministry now proposes that a review be carried out of the system of foster home allowances in order to prevent foster parents from being covered twice by the same costs, both in the form of foster home allowances and in the form of child allowances. But it's pretty unclear what the department thinks about the child protection institutions. You mean the same thing there? When are you going to have this review? And are you going to have the same review for the child protection institutions? Many institutions in this country are very precious. Should this be an extra gain for which documentation should not be provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e236	Now we have the usual rules of supervision regarding the follow-up of child protection institutions and the use of funds. What is stated in the proposal, and as the Ministry has said, is that grants to child protection institutions should be considered in the context. This means, of course, that when you add child welfare as a support related to your children, it will also mean that institutions have more to go with. The ministry has not had specific plans to do this in any other way. But it says a little bit about it in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e241	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e246	I would like to comment on the proposal of the Eirin Fallet on behalf of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party. In the autumn, these lots, together with the Progress Party of the Government, charged cash support as income for the calculation of social assistance. I expect that when someone now wants the government to investigate what it itself has ordered, it is because one has started to doubt his own previous position. In that case, they follow a tradition for these parties in this case. Let me remind you of what the representative Karita Bekkemelm Orheim said in the Stortinget on 10 March 1999: ‘Is it not the Council of State that becomes a moral issue when rich, wealthy families receive cash support, while the social welfare recipients lose it?’ The pelvis between Orheim reacted strongly to that 80 pst. of the municipalities, the cash support was taken as income: «The cash support does not go to both poor and rich as long as we see that the municipalities practice as differently as they do. The idea of cash support was not that it should reduce the social costs of municipalities?’ [[...]] In the context of the balancing notification, this position was supported by all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party. A clear majority indicated that the cash support was not to be regarded as income in the calculation of social assistance. This followed the new government, with Social Minister Ingerd Schou, and proposed in the State budget that the cash beneficiaries be given the same freedom of choice as others by maintaining the cash support. This was the reaction of the new Social Party spokesman, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. He joined the Advance Party and the other parties that are now with Eirin Faldet, and got a majority for the cash support to be counted as income. This was adopted on 12 December. But now it looks like the Workers' Party is turning around its own axis. Or does the party not agree with itself in this matter? Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was concerned that the sum of cash support and social assistance would be so high that the social assistance recipients would not be motivated to seek work. The political distance between his and Karita Bekkemelm Orheim's statements here is probably as long as it's possible to stay on a Norwegian political scale. But what is the intention behind the proposal by the representative of the Fallet? One could be led to believe that she will have the Government to develop arguments against and investigate the consequences of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's renewal of the Social Policy of the Workers' Party. In this case, it is actually only the Progress Party, except for the government parties, that has been consistent on this issue. They have consistently held the position of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. But what is the Workers' Party's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e267	We must continue to be consistent, and therefore we cannot support the proposal from the Labour Party. So we think it's in the regulation of the social services law, and in the pre-workers of the law, that child welfare is to be included. What is very unfortunate, and which is a fact, is that there are different practices in the country. In Trondheim, child welfare is not included as part of income, in Bergen it is not included, but in Oslo it is included. This is going to be terribly unfair, it's going to be an unfortunate practice. I hope that the Council of State will now follow this up and ensure that the regulations and intentions of the social services law are followed – and that she will pass the recording on to her government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e274	I would like to make it clear that the centre party is, has ours and must be consistent in this area. We have gone and will go in order for child welfare to be kept out of the way by calculating social assistance. The problem is that from the government party and from the co-operation government, the repeated visits from this spokesperson have said that they will assess the cash support. So it's stuck. This proposal is based on an assessment of cash support, so we come up with a supplement and say that there should be an assessment of whether or not child benefit should be kept outside. Several times, if I don't think wrong, it has been stated during the debate that it will be assessed by the Department on whether cash support should be kept outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e281	I sprang up a little from the chair, because I felt that Bent Höie had a line to the Workers' Party. I don't think Bent Höie is going to use his powers to worry about what the Workers' Party thinks. I'm more concerned about how we're going to achieve the best possible goal for families with children. It's actually like when you're applying for social assistance, it's a little bit different, and that's why we want a broad review. We're fully aware of what we've been through, but if that's how we can get ashore to give children's families better conditions, and not least give social assistance seekers better conditions, we're just asking for a review. And all the parties in the election campaign have said that they are interested in it! So I don't understand Bent Höie's concern. And then to the representative of the Progress Party, Karin Woldseth: there probably hasn't been any easy and easy decision here because I understand, because Karin Woldseth has basically said that she wants a broad review of the economy of social welfare recipients. So it's probably changed something from yesterday to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e291	First, to the representative of the Central Party, who claims that the party has been consistent in this matter of keeping child welfare out of the calculation of social assistance. In the context of the Cohesion Communication, presented by a Central Party Council, both the Council of State and the Centre entered into the Committee in order to ensure that the amount of the child benefit is still taken into account as a basis of income, but that the cash support should be excluded. That is where I can refer from the Committee's comments. With regard to the Workers' Party and the representative Eirin Fallet, it is remarkable that something that one was sure of was for the benefit of the social welfare recipients on 12 December – just before Christmas – has now begun to doubt, because that must be why one wants to assess the consequences. But I fully agree that the most important thing is to secure the children's families better conditions, and according to what Eirin Faldet said, one could believe that Eirin Faldet believed that the government's proposal, that the cash support is kept out, gives the children's families better conditions. That means that Eirin Faldet insists that the government's policy is better for families with children than Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e298	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e303	For a moment, Eirin Fallet, there are several people who have signed up along the way. Per Sandberg, then Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e306	Maybe it's just as well that the representative is waiting for the Fallet, she'll get even more meat on her leg for her post. Because it was Faldet's post that also made me take the floor. Firstly, I have to correct one thing: the Progress Party has never wanted to review the social clients, so it is a direct misstatement. So I noticed that the fall in his previous post was very concerned that you had a goal, and that was to facilitate the families of children. Then I became, I must say, a little frustrated, because the families of children receive approx. 34 billion in transfers per year. years. If that's not enough, I'll ask a question at the other side of this: why isn't that enough? Well, that's because the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have been very little concerned about the other side, i.e. the burdensome taxes and taxes that children's families actually have. I have not registered in any area that the Workers' Party in the municipalities governed by the Workers' Party has been concerned that municipal taxes break the back of the families with children. I have also not registered that the Workers' Party has been concerned that the electricity charges, which amount to 60-70 pst. of the electricity bill, breaks the back of the families with children, and that the families with children have costs only for car charges of an average of NOK 20 000 per year. So I think that the part of the transfers that goes to the families of children is big enough in itself, but the point is, when we transfer nearly 34 billion kroner to the families of children – in direct transfers – the state takes all of this back in terms of taxes and taxes. Then my appeal is to the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party: isn't it perhaps time to start looking at that page as well, instead of constantly focusing on a transfer policy that indirectly governs the behaviour of families? After all, we do not suggest that families with children should have any freedom of choice or any possibility of self-governing the family. That is the result of the type of transfer policy that the Workers' Party stands for. And now they're going to make even more sense in that area by keeping some income they transfer to the families of children out of the way by calculating another transfer that the families get. I think that's very strange. Would it not be much easier to provide family support so that they did not get into a situation where they had to ask for public support in the form of social assistance? The reason why they are asking for social assistance is that they do not do the public bills, that is, taxes, taxes, electricity and municipal taxes. We should have looked at it, and I also recommend the Workers' Party to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e313	Now I know that the Progress Party has a rapporteur in Os – and I do not know how it is with a tax bill. In fact, it's hard to be a rapporteur in municipalities, and it's hard for many families to have to go to a social office to get help. There are no transfers to families with children with social assistance. There are some families that need to apply for on an individual basis. I expect the representative to have read the proposal, and it says, in fact, 'The Grand Government is asking for an overall review'. What's wrong with that? Won't the Progress Party have an overall review? That's just what we're asking for, and the signals we've received from the Minister of Children's and Family Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs in this government are that they're very interested in making the most of it. So I don't understand what is the problem of asking for an assessment. It has actually happened before in Stortinget, also with the support of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e320	I am not going to go into fiscal policy – this is a debate on child welfare, so we can take fiscal policy another time. But the government is, of course, particularly concerned with the problem of poverty. SV has made proposals to improve the situation of poor families, and child welfare is one of the things we can do with – price-adjusted child welfare, increased child welfare for second and third children, and that child welfare should be kept out when calculating social assistance. We've been saying the same thing all along. The proposal that is on this table that we have to look at this in the context is quite natural when we are now also going to evaluate the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e325	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 107]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e341	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be divided into five minutes per group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Finally, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e350	It's not exactly a big deal we're going to deal with today. It takes on a single theme, a law firm to charge for concession. In this field there is also no disagreement to trace in the setting. To the extent that you have a disagreement, this is in proportion to the amount of the consideration, and the use of this money. The point of view of the Progress Party is that the remuneration is set too high, and we believe that the distribution of the funds should be made in the context of the treatment of the budget by the Stortinge. I would also like to pay particular attention to the deepening of these points in the remarks in the vote and to the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e357	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e360	Today, as Mrs Knudsen said, we are not going to discuss programme production, programme content or funding of television. What we're discussing today is business. We're talking about good business – because that's what TV 2 is. TV 2 has unique rights and opportunities in broadcasting funded by national advertising in Norway through the terms of the concession. They actually have a monopoly on nationwide advertising-funded television. Such a market position is a wishful position for business operations. TV 2 can take far higher prices for its advertising space than the other advertising-based television channels, precisely because they are the only ones that are nationwide. The only thing required by the receivers is that they have a television and antenna that can receive TV signals. People who have television have to pay a license to have a TV in the house. It is laid down in regulations on television receivers. This is why they, for example: do not receive the NRK2 consignments, but must nevertheless pay the full licence. But that also means that even if the license goes to the NRK, it's indirectly also a license that covers the TV2 broadcasts. TV 2 makes good sense. They're making a lot of money. Therefore, it is only fair and fair that TV 2 pays something back to the State for its unique market shares and privileges. That view is shared by all the parties in Stortinget. There is only disagreement as to how much it is reasonable that TV 2 should pay for its rights and what the revenue it receives should go to. SV is different from the other parties in terms of how much we believe TV 2 can and will pay in return for the concession. All parties, except the Advance Party, agree to offer TV 2 the option of either paying a one-off fee of 500 million. kr or to pay a lump sum of 150 million. kr in addition to an annual fixed remuneration plus an income-dependent part. The majority is in favour of the Government's proposal for an annual remuneration of 25 million. kr plus an income-dependent part. SV believes that it is correct and important that TV 2 has to budget for a certain amount, because with its framework conditions, the State limits competition to the advantage of TV 2. The accounts for TV 2 show good results – yes, so good results that TV 2 in 2000 paid NOK 20 in dividends per person. the share or 52 million. kr to the shareholders. The model adopted by the majority of the Committee opens up the possibility for TV 2 to escape payment of only 25 million. kr in consideration per. years. SV believes that an annual remuneration of 25 million. kr is too low and proposes a remuneration of 100 million. kr plus an income-dependent part. SV believes that the concession fee as a whole should be earmarked for films and television productions and grants for local broadcasting and other cultural purposes. With the SV model, the outlook for advertising-funded televisions could give rise to grants for these purposes in the same way as the funds for sport, culture and research. With the SV model, the cultural budget would have been given a promise that no Minister of Culture has so far been able to add to in the annual budget struggle. The majority will unfortunately only a little bit of the same thing. It is easy to establish that the auctioning principle is useless when granting a concession, even if there are commercial concession applicants. That's what the bulk of the population thinks. SV would also add that the auction principle should not be used in the future for the award of concessions to nationwide advertising-funded television or radio and for the possible development of the ground network. I finally want to include SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e386	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e389	The legislative proposal under discussion today is related to the renewal of the advertising-funded nationwide public broadcasting concessions. These concessions give the right to use scarce frequency resources and have proved to be very valuable. The home meal to claim remuneration for such concessions must be clear. The Christian People's Party is therefore well pleased that the majority of the population provides such a unique basis in the Broadcasting Act. As is known, the analogue nationwide advertising-funded television concession for the period 2003-2009 in October 2001 was granted to TV 2 AS. The company paid 150 million. kr to the treasury. TV 2 is also obliged in the concession to pay $25 million. kr to Norwegian Film Fund each year during the concession period. In addition, TV 2 has to pay an annual sum to the Treasury. This sum will depend on TV 2. The bill provides that the new rule of law may also be used to lay down the conditions under which the concession is to be paid to nationwide advertising-funded radio. The Christian People's Party believes that such conditions can be included in the new radio concession that will apply from 2004. We are well aware that the department is now preparing for the radio concession and that the department has not taken a decision on the level of remuneration and the means of collecting the radio concession. The Christian People's Party expects it to do so in the same way as for the television concession, among other things. will be assessed whether it is most appropriate to claim a one-off remuneration for the radio concession or whether a one-off remuneration should be levied and also have conditions for annual payment during the concession period. Local radio and local television may be at risk of losing due to the increased media competition. I show you, among other things: for commercial radio and television channels to send a great deal of foreign matter. It is important to ensure diversity in programme provision. The Christian People's Party will stress that we are seeking tools to promote the diversity of programme provision. A concession fee should be set up for the re-promotion of the commercial radio channel in the same way as for the television concession, which may benefit from a local media support scheme. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be a concession fee that can go unabated to a fund for Norwegian music and drama productions, cf. schemes in Sweden and Finland. With regard to the allocation method, the Christian People’s Party will not support the auctioning principle. We expect the State Council to come back to Stortinget on the question of whether consideration should be required when granting concessions to nationwide digital broadcasting broadcasts on the ground. Unlike analogue broadcasting, digital broadcasting is something we have little experience with here in the country. The home meal should also be eligible for remuneration for such concessions. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of the need for cultural policy thinking to underpin programme profile and coverage conditions for broadcasting concessions. The new TV 2 AS television concession strengthened public broadcasting requirements in relation to current conditions. When we first talk about concession, I'll take up the deaf access to information and social debate. In December 2000, we became familiar with the results of the survey of Hilde Maria Haualand, who has surveyed the use of deaf media, especially television and newspapers. I agree with the researcher when she describes this as a democratic problem. Television broadcasters should take seriously the fact that deaf people have their own language and use sign language interpretation as a fixed procedure when broadcasting television debates. Christian People's Party believes this must be one of the concession terms of companies that will operate nationwide public broadcasting. In general, the conditions for the new analogue nationwide broadcasting concession period should be more precise than those currently in force. This must of course be done in a way that does not violate the important principle of editorial autonomy and freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e410	The central party mainly supports the setting, but we ask a question about the comments from the department of the decision of the broadcasting law § 2-1 second paragraph. We can find it on page 5 at the top of the second column of the proposition: ‘The Ministry may fix the remuneration in the manner it deems appropriate, inter alia. by auction.’;» This may seem somewhat confusing compared to the decision taken by the Stortinget in the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 2 for 2000-2001, that the remuneration should not be fixed by auction. I hope that the Council of State in its article, if it has to have an article, can help to clarify what I consider to be self-reliance. The centre party believes it is important to strengthen the cultural budget. Today, it can almost seem as important for humans that the place where a cage has a good cultural reputation as a job offer. The need for resources for local and regional cultural buildings is great. The cultural school was reduced by almost 30 pst. during the budgetary procedure before Christmas. Volunteer teams and organizations do a lot of work around the country, to give some examples. The centre party believes that the entire proceeds of the concession fee should fall to the cultural sector. By making State media management self-funding, one can free resources that can benefit entire Culture-Noreg. It is a paradox that in Norway, according to its Statistical Central Bureau, cultural statistics benefit a smaller part of the country's total expenditure on culture now than 10 years ago. In 1990, the country's cultural expenditure was 0.61 p.m. of the total expenditure, while in 2000 there was 0.5 pst. The proposal of the centre party will contribute to an important and correct step in the right direction. Finally, I would like to put forward my proposal to the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e426	The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e429	I had actually not intended to take the floor in the debate, because this is a purely technical matter, and there is a great deal of deal about what has been put forward. But when the representative from the Center Party brings out the one sentence about auctioning, I would remind you that it was not the current government that made this proposition. It was the previous government. I'm totally against using an auction, so that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e434	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 110]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e442	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e449	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Eirin Fallet on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote legislative amendments in order to ensure that the right to family allowances for children residing outside Norway applies only to children of Norwegian citizens and citizens of the EEA territory.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals to enable each parent to receive child benefit on the basis of the percentage that their association with the child warrants.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that, by means of legislative amendments, the payment of child benefit to the parent who may receive it is stopped until the child has been returned to him as soon as the decision on care has been taken and implemented.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government is asking for a comprehensive review of the system for the calculation of social assistance, including an assessment of whether child welfare and cash support are to be regarded as income for the calculation of social assistance.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e803	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e813	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e820	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2 by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Magnar Lund Bergo, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 4, from Eli Sollied Practices on behalf of the Center Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the remuneration for the concession for nationwide advertising funded broadcasting in its entirety falls to the Treasury. Appropriations for Norwegian cinema and television production shall be made on the basis of normal budgetary priorities in connection with the treatment of State budget by the Stortinge.’.» Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government before the next concession round to file a case for the Storting in adjusting the amount of remuneration for concession to nationwide broadcasting.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to designate the total concession fee for media and cultural purposes’.» Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party, it's like: ‘The Government asks the Government to designate the proposed one-off amount and the revenue-dependent part of the concession fee for the operation of the State Media Administration and local broadcasting grants. The funds released by making the State Media Administration self-financing fall under the cultural budget.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e892	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e902	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-07-lower.ana.ud2635e913	There is no record.
