ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e37	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e40	In this Document, No: The 8th proposal proposes amendments to Law No 8 April 1981 by the members of the Committee of the Regions. 7 on children and parents and in the Law of 13 August 1915 No. 6 on the procedure for the award of disputes. As the law today is designed in this area, it does not give justice and equality between mother and father, because all fathers who want to get a confirmation of whether they are father or not, after today's laws depend on whether the mother consents to a DNA test. The biggest and most important problem in this regard is that the child does not know who his biological father is, and that biological fathers do not know whether he is a father or not, if there is any doubt. The Ministry of Children and Family has informed the Committee that they are currently working on a review of the legislation on the identification and modification of hazards in the Children’s Act and in the Dispute Settlement Act Chapter 26 on Resumption. The Ministry’s assessment is to follow the investigation instructions set out in kgl. Resolution of 16 December 1994 on the need for all public investigations, regulations, reforms, actions, proposals and communications to the Grand Duchy to be consulted on a general basis with the public and private institutions and organisations concerned. In this respect, the Ministry has also informed the Committee that a consultation note will be issued with proposals for legislative changes during February 2002, and the Ministry intends to promote a proposal for a legislative amendment for the Stortinge during this spring. The Committee agrees with the proposers and the Ministry that there is a need for legislative changes in this area. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, therefore support the Ministry's assessment of a consultation round and considers this to be important to ensure that the matter is addressed as best as possible before a legislative amendment is adopted. This majority therefore recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol, without any consideration being given to the specific proposals by these parties at this stage. In the case of the Progress Party, they have some special points regarding the handling of this case, which I think they themselves will explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e55	The theme that is up today is serious and affects a lot of people. Many come with simple solutions. But there are no simple solutions when you have more considerations to consider, and especially when it comes to the best of children. We who are adults have been able to ignore the children when these things are being discussed, and it's not that strange, because we're adults, and it's been a long time since we were children. Anyway, I would like to say that the issue that has been addressed in Document No. The 8 proposal, it's important, and this is so important that we have to round it up. Today's law has some weaknesses, and I expect them to give us a rich opportunity to really discuss when we get the Children's Act for treatment at a later stage. Anyway, I want to say something in general in this context. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to stress that the starting point of the Children's Act is the best for the child. The child's legal certainty, the right to a mother and a father and the right to safety are first placed. It is important that once the best interests of the child are respected, the rights of mother and father, as a general rule, should be the same. It is therefore also important that when the Government returns to Stortinget with a new review of the Children's Act, we ensure equal treatment between mother and father, while ensuring that the child's best interests are cared for. Otherwise, I will go all the way to the rapporteur's presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e66	I'll start in a slightly different way. We have now been through many debates on politicians' contempt, low turnout and great irritations outside of people. This is a gruesome example of why that's the situation. It is simply a matter of total paralysis from all parties – and it is sad! The fact that the Committee finds no other reference to but investigation work in relation to the legislation to be done by the Ministry of Children and the Family is a weakness. Does it mean that it is completely impossible to get a majority for a private bill in the Norwegian Grand Prix, because it has to be investigated? Then we're on the wrong track. And another aspect: this matter is settled. It has been investigated by all the institutions working on the problem, and all the institutions agree with the proposal. All the institutions have been involved in drawing up the proposal. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the And then one representative comes after another – in line with 1996 – and shows that this is a major problem, that is a serious problem. But to do something about it, it seems to be completely impossible. Then the problems cannot be as serious as these representatives say. I see that at this point, of course, it's too late to get the other parties to turn around, but one thing is to deal with a matter as essential as a single matter in the great treatment of the entire Children's Act. If you think this matter is so serious, it should certainly have been treated as a matter of its own, and not with the whole of the Children's Act, which becomes very comprehensive. It is not fair, says the rapporteur in the matter. No, but can't you at least try to achieve justice without having to pull this out and act with hastyness and deportation? It could have been a thought for the Committee that this proposal was promoted in May 2001. In May 2001, this proposal was promoted! I'm not going to pull the debate out any further. I would like to discuss the matter, but I think that the proposal itself is so comprehensive and describes the problem so well that it is not really necessary. That is why it should not be necessary to postpone the matter. It is with great regret that I see that this is just being pulled out further in time. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e81	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e84	The legal danger is determined on the basis of marriage with the child’s mother — Father Est rule — by recognition or by judgment. However, it is not obvious that the legal hazard is the same as the biological one. A man who is married to his mother is considered to be the legal father of the child regardless of whether he is the child's biological father or not. Neither in the cases where the hazard results from recognition or from a judgment in the time before the court used the DNA analysis in such cases, there is certainty that the legal hazard is consistent with the biological one. DNA analysis has led to increased safety and precision in the determination of hazard, such as: has resulted in a simplification of the rules of procedure in matters of pharmacovigilance. DNA analysis has also led to increased emphasis on knowledge of biological relationships. However, the current legislation imposes certain limits on when it is possible to raise a case in order to clarify the biological conditions surrounding a hazard and, where appropriate, to change the legal hazard. I think it's very important that children know the truth about who their parents are. I therefore see a need for changes in the regulatory framework for the determination and modification of hazards, and I therefore agree with the intention of the proposal of representatives Per Sandberg and Ulf Erik Knudsen. However, I believe that it is important that a proposal for amendments to the Children’s Act in this area be sent at general consultation, so that relevant public and private institutions and organisations are given the opportunity to comment. During these days, the Ministry of Children and Family issues a consultation note with proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act. The main purpose of the proposal is to remove the conditions and time limits for bringing an action for a change in the dangers arising from the Pater est rule or established by recognition. Furthermore, it opens for resumption of hazard cases in cases where the decision is made without DNA analysis being available. The consultation period is set at 10 April 2002. The hearing notes have been posted on the ODIN website of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. I intend to present a bill during the spring session, as a separate proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e98	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e101	It might have been interesting to get the Council of State to say something about the consequences that it is you fear, because it must be some fear because a person wants to walk the long and heavy road again through a hearing. What is it that needs more investigation in relation to the Document No? The eight proposals under consideration? Another point that I would like to challenge the Council of State is: this type of DNA testing is quite as extensive today, and it actually happens through the Internet. There is a separate company in Norway today that operates and distributes such things. Does the Council of State wish to approve that type? It's a violation of Norwegian law. With regard to the last Council of State said, in relation to what is being laid out, does that mean that the Government does not want to take the step fully in line with what is in the proposal? Does that mean that we're just going in the right direction now, just a few little steps, while we have to wait another six years for the big steps?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e110	This is not a new case. It has been debated earlier in this Chamber, not later than 1997. This was not the case at the time. We have an investigation instruction that I see no reason to deviate. I don't know if all the organisations and all the hearing bodies agree with the proposal, and I think we all owe the opportunity to get an opinion on a matter that, after all, was not agreed on for not so long ago. When it comes to what we are afraid of: we are not afraid of anything special, but we want all the matters relating to the matter to be well-lit. There are some areas of the Progress Party's proposal for decisions that we want from the Ministry to consult and clarify, for example:Who's going to charge for the DNA tests? Is that supposed to be under court? Is the County Street Office being thought of? It should be clarified in relation to both the first and second proposals of the Progress Party. The second is that there may be disagreement between mother and father as to whether to take a DNA test or not. We don't want the children to get in trouble between their parents – when Mother says yes, Dad likes to say no or vice versa. So we think it's important that it might be the court that decides that it's actually going to be applied for a DNA test. It is also true that not everyone wants to settle a matter of danger, which has the child available there and then. So we think that there are some legal clarifications that should be made. With regard to the matter itself, it is already out. We cancel legal proceedings, and it will be so that both father and mother will be able to have the same rights as the child has today, to be able to request a new handling of their case at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e125	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e129	This is a very important matter, and the general rule is, for our part, that non-discrimination between mother and father should apply. This is not guaranteed by the Children's Act. SV looks forward to a review of the legislation of the Children’s Act on the determination and modification of hazard. Having said that, we have now been told – and we have also known for quite some time in the Committee – that the Ministry of Children and the Family is working on a review of the legislation of the Children's Act on the definition and modification of fatherhood, and that the Ministry aims to promote a proposal in the Grand Duchy during the spring. The rules for the establishment and change of fatherhood are of great personal importance to many. This will be an important proposal for legislative changes, and it is very important that this is adequately addressed. SV supports the fact that the case therefore follows the usual stages of legal work according to the investigation instructions, which include: involve sending the legislative amendment proposal to a hearing. We want such respect for such an important matter that we will make our decision after we have had a hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e134	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e142	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e149	During the debate Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-02-12-lower.ana.ud1384e224	There is no record.
