ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e30	I really want to express joy today, because I think it's very gratifying that we can now deal with the collective message. And it's with great pleasure I read the setting and see that it's a large majority and connection to the point for point in the message. I take this as a sign that there is a lot of good policy in this communication. There is a consensus on the starting point that concerns not least environmental and health problems caused by car traffic. Until today, we have simply lacked a collective policy for our largest cities. Even simple and inexpensive measures that could improve everyday life for travellers have not been implemented. We have known for a long time how important it is for both the travellers and the economy of the companies that the bus does not get stuck on red light in a car queue. Nevertheless, we have not been able to put in place the signal priority that gives the bus green light. We can't have it like that anymore. Therefore, better public transport is a key objective of the Cooperative Government. Collective transport is necessary for a well-functioning, comprehensive transport system, for value creation and well-being, for improving the health and environment of people and for improving road safety. To achieve these objectives, increased resources are needed. However, there is also a need for measures to make more use of the money we are already using, and not least for measures to improve organisation and coordination, especially in order to ensure the needs of the big cities. I am therefore pleased that the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, concludes on the main objectives, strategies and choices that this very first collective communication stands for. I note that the majority of the Committee clearly endorses the Government's proposal on targeted investment in the major cities, agreeing that quality commitments for public transport must be given priority over general tariff reductions, and agreeing to the proposal to set up an incentive scheme to reward cities that are able to move from private cars to public transport. I also note the support for a combination of better public transport and local traffic regulation that provides the most efficient resource use – whip and carrot. I also see it as very positive that there is broad support for giving major cities greater freedom to address their own transport challenges, that the Stortingeet joins in more use of performance-dependent grant contracts and a freer regime for the creation of new express bus routes. These clarifications in key areas of collective communication are important and provide a good basis for following up the announcement in the further work of the Government. The government’s objective of increasing public transport efforts of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion is an extra effort to achieve a quality promise that strengthens the competitiveness of public transport in the major cities and makes public transport cheaper for young people and students. I refer to 40 pst. The student discount in local traffic, the incentive schemes for large cities that are collectively betting, and significant funds to make the T-Bahn in Oslo become a capital worthy. All of these are areas that were barely affected by the national transport plan. The lack of such a targeted collective policy was, in the view of the government parties, a major weakness in the national transport plan. That's exactly why we've been so busy quickly getting an offensive collective message. The government's position is that more targeted instruments are needed than today to ensure that public transport is actually given priority. At the same time, responsibilities must be as clear as possible. That is why we propose that the counties retain overall responsibility for public transport, but that an incentive scheme be set up that triggers state subsidies where there is local willingness to prioritize public transport over the car. At the same time, we invite metropolitan areas to gain power over their own transport policies and to try out how they can use funds across purposes and levels of administration. I have been very pleased to see that the collective communication has led to debate and commitment. We've seen that here today. The public communication itself does not provide better public transport. It's the follow-up that decides. It requires a staying capacity and discipline, not only from the Government, but also from the parties on the Stortinget which this spring has let the money sit loose in the wallet for most good purposes. I then cordially invite you to further work in the collective effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e58	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e61	From this morning’s debate until now, information has been obtained in the Evening Post that the grant to Oslo for the student and student discounts was too small due to ‘writing errors’. I was a little impressed by the typographical error, because the initial allocation was 16.5 million. kr, while the claim was 18.9 million. kr. Now it's supposed to be fixed. But for safety I checked with Akershus to find out if they are now satisfied, because they may have also been subjected to a typographical error. That doesn't seem to be the case. They are still in the situation that they assess whether the scheme can become a reality at all. My question is: will the Council of State bet on the fact that there is a typographical error behind it and that the error of writing is to be corrected so that Akershus receives the grant provided for? So to the other thing I would like to know more precisely, because I still feel a certain uncertainty here: the extra effort of SEK 1.52 billion for public transport in the period we say in the timing must be assumed to be beyond the limits of the national transport plan. Is it also the opinion of the Council of State that these DKK 1.52 billion are in addition to the limits provided for in the national transport plan, or can we risk having a sub-budget during the period that leads to this additional grant not actually being as large as foreseen?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e70	There was probably no typographical error, but there was a technical error that caused Oslo to have received 2.4 million kroner. kr less than they should have had in grants to the Student Discount Scheme. And now we've done that. The calculations that we've calculated have been carried out by an independent consultant, and these are the same calculations that we're based on when we've offered to Akershus. I have registered that Akershus believes it is not the right level, and I expect Akershus to give feedback on the letter we sent them, so that we can have a dialogue on how to proceed with this. Otherwise, I am very happy to be able to record that there is agreement on the extra effort that the Government is making in the collective communication to the collective effort. This Communication is about collective action outside the scope of the national transport plan. That's why we're talking about an extra bet relative to these amounts for the period that's coming. So I want to remind you that if this is going to be successful, it requires that we have an overall understanding of how we're going to do this. It is the way the government proposes and the Stortinge grants this money, and then we also depend on the agreement on the Stortinge that we are betting on public transport. In this regard, I am registering the very liberal wallet that some in the opposition now have in the day to put in billions of dollars to other solutions, which I see can give off to more sectors, perhaps even our sector. I therefore invite Stortinget to follow up the collective effort together.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e79	Last spring, the national transport plan was adopted. Through various budgetary procedures, a contribution was made to public transport in the period 2002–2005, amounting to approximately EUR 15 million. SEK 3.2 billion. In the state budget for this year, this was not followed up. Railway investments alone amounted to 600 million. kr less than proposed. If this is the case that the level of investment of the year is being followed up in the coming years, the railway will lose NOK 2.4 billion in this period. There is more than the entire level of ambition in this collective message. I hear the Council of State say now – and she also said it to the Newspaper on 22 May – that the ambitions of the collective communication are in addition to the ambitions of the National Transport Plan. I'm glad to hear that. But I am surprised that this is not clear in the message. When we wrote this into the setting through the work of the committee, the government fraction could not be included in a sentence that says that we ‘will emphasise that the contribution to public transport declared by the Government in the notification shall be in addition to that described in the setting of the national transport plan’. If it's so simple that you can just stand here and say that's it, why isn't it in the message? Why can't the government fraction be involved? If it is the case that the level of ambition of the national transport plan is at hand, I think it should be stated in clear terms. Then you can come up and confirm that next year the railway infrastructure has to go up by 800 million. kr, otherwise, if it does not take place, the total amount of public transport expenditure must be lower than that to be promised in the previous year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e91	With regard to the railway operation in the state budget for the current year, I would like to remind you that we mainly built on the government that Stoltenberg had presented. And it's true that that proposal was 600 million. kr during the action programme. We built on it when we arrived in the department. When we first talk about these funds, I would remind you that this year we spend between 5 billion dollars and 6 billion dollars on the railways. There's a lot of people who react to the fact that it's a very high level. I'd say it's high, but it's a perfectly right level. The fact that you are now eager to collect the amounts in relation to the collective communication, I also have to say that I am very pleased, because it gives me confidence that when the budget comes, you will also be eager to get a high level of collective action. It is not the collective communication that at the end of the day is crucial for the success of this – we have outlined some organisational and other solutions, which are very important – but the budget will also be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e96	Youth and student discounts will make public transport more attractive to youth groups. This can be an important factor in creating good travel habits among young people. And a long-term effect of that again could be that the group that finds it natural to travel collectively is increasing. The proposal for 40 p.m. The school and student discounts presented by the Government are positive. But the aim of the Center Party is that the school and student discounts should be 50 pst. This was also the promise of the government party in the election campaign. Based on the promises that the government party joined in the election campaign, I had hoped and believed that the government party would support the proposal of the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party that the Government should add 50 pst. School and student rebates in the 2003 budget. When the government party has not been on that proposal, is it to understand that the government has gone away from the promise of the government party in the election campaign? So to another question, that goes on offer on the running of the railway. It is clear that there are many questions you can ask to be sure that the security has been taken care of. We also have what goes on training locomotive drivers. At present, the Committee has received very little information on how this will be done. Therefore, the three parties that I also mentioned earlier, in a comment, have asked the Government to return to the Stortinget with satisfactory solutions when it comes to safety and driver training. Does the Council of State intend to provide such an information to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e107	In the case of youth and student discounts, I am delighted to note that you are eager to increase that discount, a discount you have not been so busy about before. I also record that the Workers' Party is very keen on this discount of up to 50 p.m., despite the fact that it was proposed 30 p.m. eight months ago. and added a compensation for 15 pst. We believe that we are now doing a huge boost, from no discount to 40 pst. There's a lot of students that can enjoy now. And I'm happy with them, because this is well deserved. It is a group that has bad advice and that we want to get good travel habits so that we can help improve the environment in the long term. I also see with pleasure that there is consensus in relation to the collective communication, that emphasis is placed on a quality promise for public transport before we have an effort for general tariff reductions. As far as rail competition is concerned, it is clear that safety is important. Security must be in place before we open up competition on parts of the railway network. The security we can't afford to play with. We've had accidents in this country that show us that accidents can happen on the railways in Norway. We have to take that seriously. With regard to the training of drivers and how they should be taken into account in a competitive situation, we also need to look at it. It is a fact that today there are not so many institutions that train drivers, and we have to make sure that we have both the competence and a place where they can get this training properly. Of course, I want to keep Stortinget informed about what you want to know about in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e120	I have noticed that there has been a fairly common practice for the government when it seems it has a bad case, to talk about that everyone else spends so much more money. So let's not do that. We don't spend any more money, at least not in the Working Party, nor in most other opposition parties. We stick to the exact same rule of action as the Government. That we want to spend money on kindergartens and hospitals, and not on the tax havens of the richest, that's what separates us, but we don't spend any more money. It is even the case that, in the revised national budget, we have committed 600 million. kr less, and despite that, we have found room for 65 new million. kr for collective investment. So to a question of road pricing. In this message the Government writes a lot about road pricing. It's hard to interpret what the Government's view is. It is clear from the left's programme that they want to introduce road pricing, not just as a means, but as the most important tool to reduce the environmental impact of cities. When submitting this message, it could seem that someone saw a positive sign of road pricing. This led to the commissioner Petter Løvik on 29 April sending out a press release saying that the Right is still against road pricing, rush time charges, for drivers as well as public travellers, if anyone doubts about it. And then we asked a question: What does the government mean by that? We now have good experience in asking questions over and over again, and so far we have received very wretched answers. Therefore, I give the Council of State a last opportunity in this round to answer what the Government's view of road pricing is. Just a brief comment to the representative Ringstad said about the railway: we have recently visited a British delegation that said: at least they must not do as we do. Can the Council of State promise that it will learn from the negative experience of England when it comes to privatising the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e133	It is absolutely right that there are different experiences of rail competition in different countries. I can inform you that I am going to the United Kingdom in August to study the experiences you have there, precisely because I know that they also have negative experiences. I see that we have to take advantage of that. As far as road pricing is concerned, I have to say that when I get questions about what is the government's policy, and we give an answer, we get feedback that we can't understand this is the government's policy, when the government says, "This is up to local authorities to take the initiative." We're working on regulations to make this right, and then we can't push down on someone's head to introduce road pricing as a system, if you don't want it locally. Road pricing is one of many instruments that can be used locally. It's in the collective message, and it's given broad support. For example, parking policies are one of the most important measures that can be used locally to combine public transport activities — and a local tool to reduce car traffic; whips and carrots. It's quite obvious that without first having a collective system that works well enough, parking and road pricing seem bad. To make it quite clear: The government believes that road pricing is a local tool that can be initiated, and it is up to the Stortinget to approve on a case-by-case basis – if you want it to be used. This is the government's policy. At the request of local authorities, it will be presented to the Stortinget — and then consider whether to go further with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e147	It provokes me a little when I do not get an answer. It also provokes me a little when you refer to the next round of budget. When we adopted the National Transport Plan one year ago, it was a big message. What we are adopting today is also a big message. Are we going to be as uncertain about the numbers in this message as we are about the numbers that are in the national transport plan? Just so it's said: if the Left gets a say in the Government for an ambitious investment in public transport, there's no doubt that there's a majority in the Storting for it. We have made that quite clear, other parties have also made it quite clear, and all three parties operate within the so-called rule of action, on which the Government attaches great importance. The fact that the Government chooses other budget partners, which have completely different priorities in terms of public transport, cannot, at any rate, load the opposition on the Stortinge for, because we are quite clear in that priority. Finally, let me ask the Council of State again, and I hope I get an equally clear answer that she gave to the Newspaper on 22 May. Is the ambitions of the national transport plan in the case of the railway involved at the station? Is this bet now coming, an additional bet in relation to this? Or should it go at the expense of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e158	I'd like to discuss for a long time how much we're going to spend on both the one and the other. And I want to repeat that no matter what we get to today by numbers, it's the budget that counts. But I would nevertheless stress that our level of ambition is firm. In the budget for this year, as the Stoltenberg government presented, we based ourselves – as we immediately came into the offices – largely on what was inside. There was a less ambitious budget than that envisaged in the action plan, on the railways as well as on the road. There was as much underground on the road as on the railway. And I experience that SV a couple of days ago agreed to add leads also in relation to appropriations for road solutions. Here are big wishes both on the railway and on the road in relation to the next budget. I want to mention a concrete project, the Jondal Tunnel, which came in when we had a debate in Stortinget a few days ago. Our ambitions are clear. They were delineated in the Sem statement. That's what we're going through in the Collective Notice. They are ambitious both on the economic side and in relation to other measures that can be used to improve transport. The ambitions are high, and we intend to do our part to try to meet them. And then again, the Stortinget – in the budget rounds – is invited to enter the right numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e167	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e172	There is broad consensus in the Committee on Transport that major cities need to be given priority when extra emphasis is placed on public transport. It is natural, because it is the largest transport problem in the big cities. In major cities, health and environmental problems are, in particular, the greatest in relation to pollution caused by car traffic. However, there is also broad consensus in the Committee that the extra effort in big cities should not be at the expense of transfers to public transport in the rest of the country. In that case, it would have been totally wrong, because more money is needed for public transport throughout the country. Transfers to public transport in county municipalities have failed. In the 1990s, the majority of population has contributed annually to some of the framework transfers to the counties based on an expected efficiency effect of the organisation of public transport. Rather, the efficiency gain should have been used to expand and improve the provision of collective services, for example: at lower prices. Instead, we have received a more expensive and a less expensive collective offer. In many municipalities today there is only the school kiss – and hardly the kiss – again. Collective transport in large parts of the country is a fast boat, it's a ferry, it's a train – where there's a train – and it's a bus. In several counties, such as Nordland, Finnmark and Sogn and Fjordane also have to be considered as a public transport service. Here I show you, moreover, to the debate that is coming next week, on St.prp. No 61 on the network. In the districts, public transport represents an important prerequisite for settlement. We are moving towards the development of housing and labour market regions. People want to work in the regional centers and live in the municipalities around. The need for good collective solutions with day-to-day commuting opportunities becomes a very important national strategy for achieving regional and district policy objectives. Better access to regional centres is an important prerequisite for improving public transport. Therefore, the SV’s proposal that the allocation of public transport should be transferred to the Ministry of Transport and given to the counties as framework transfers, and that collective means and means should be brought together in order to allow the county municipalities to see road and public transport as a whole, is a very good proposal, and therefore the SV’s proposal that differentiated collective standards for public transport should be developed correctly both in major cities, between regions and districts. I'm sorry that the majority did not agree with exactly this solution and these clarifications in the setting. Finally, the representative Hans. R. Kjæstad and the representative May Britt Vihovde tried earlier today to teach SV how to prioritise. The same thing has actually happened to the Council of States: we can't just spend more money. The truth is that SV and the Government have given different priorities. We don't spend any more money, but the government has made tax credits a major thing – in the year 1.5 billion dollars in tax credits to the 80 richest in the country. We want to spend more money in other areas. We want to spend more money on rail, on public transport. That's the difference between SV and Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e185	There is reason to rejoice that the first collective message of history will be adopted during the evening with a broad uproar from the Stortinget. Before I go into some specific points in the communication, I would like to comment a little bit on this morning's debate. It's surprising that the Labour Party's Chief Spokesman, Bjørgov Froyn, said in a reply that it was "absurd to discuss history", when he sailed used large portions of his post to overwhelm the Christian People's Party with our dubious history in the area. The representative Heidi Sørensen from SV asked us in a line-up for the sake of the matter, while she also spent a lot of her speaking time on the same exercise. I've learned that throwing stones in glasshouses doesn't have much effect. It is precisely from our promises and the Government's willingness to invest in public transport that this message is available. Other governments have no power to produce anything similar. On the contrary, I believe that – as has been said by others in the debate – SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre, with their budgetary commitments in cooperation with the Progress Party, can roll over the entire collective effort, to the great joy of the Progress Party. So to some moments in the matter. First of all, this is a big city announcement, and it deals primarily with the problems of public transport that we have in the big cities. However, public transport in the districts is also affected. This is about creating strong housing and labour market regions, as we agree in the Stortinget, and then we know that railways, regional air routes, buses, speedboats and ferries are important for the districts. I would like to stress that regional air traffic is for the first time referred to as public transport in this communication. I can refer to airports in Finnmark, where 50 pst. the population actually uses aeroplanes in a month. But here we have a problem: we have to get prices down on the air services as well. We'll get back to that on the next occasion. Then I'm glad that the Northern Railway is mentioned as one of the four major sections of the country. This will mean a great deal for the priority of funds — not least because the Northern Railway is an important freight train.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e202	The NSB believes that the Railway Agency needs approximately DKK 8 billion in investment funds in addition to the framework of the transport plan to maintain a satisfactory offer, among others. on long-distance routes. The long-distance sections are an important offer to the districts. It is incredibly important for passenger traffic, and not least for freight traffic. The Labour Party believes that there is every reason to assess whether in the years ahead the railway needs more money for investment than the Government provides in this Communication. The working party is also sceptical about the present proposal to launch tenders for the operation of rail transport. The NSB may be weakened as a means of transport policy whose commercial operators take over profitable routes and upgrade routes. The NSB will continue to be responsible for the training of drivers, which means that other commercial operators must share the financial costs of such training. We will also point to the significant safety challenges that more operators on the line will create. We therefore assume that the Government will in any case come back to Stortinget with satisfactory proposals for solutions, for example. in the case of safety and driver training. For environmental and safety reasons, it is important to transfer as much of the freight as possible from road to rail to sea. The present Communication contains little measures that will contribute to this. We are therefore pleased that the majority believes that a clearer strategy should be developed for the more environmentally friendly transport of goods in the context of the work of the national transport plan 2006-2015. The Workers' Party supports the introduction of the incentive scheme that rewards county municipalities that achieve targeted growth in urban public transport. However, we are concerned that differences in economic freedom between county municipalities could lead to that county councils being unable to undertake the necessary collective effort that could trigger reward. In addition, this government's approach to the local economy raises considerable doubts as to whether county municipalities receive sufficient funding at the bottom to undertake a large-scale collective effort. The government should therefore carefully assess the mechanism in order to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to invest in public transport where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e219	Originally, I was going to start this post with a little personal approach angle and tell adventures about what it is like to use railway in the central East. But after first reading the national transport plan and then looking at the level of funding for the railway to which it is actually added up, I realize that in the story of fairy tales, I just have to bend in the dust. So I think I'm going to pick a slightly more factual approach. But just a little bit about how it feels to drive trains in the East: So I'm from Akershus. I've lived at Ås in the last few years. It's about half an hour from Oslo. One would think that Ås was one of those places where it might be nice to use trains. At least when the train is on the train, which is never, it actually goes even faster to take a train to the city than it does to drive a car. The problem is that people don't get room. If you're so lucky to be from Ås, maybe you can get on the train in the rush hour. If one comes up on Ski, one can really just forget it. If you're very lucky, you get a stand at the bottom of the stairs. Getting one on Kolbotn -- I don't know, I think people who may have given up trying to walk on the train, there aren't so many who are trying to open the doors to see if they can get in. So the amount of money spent on the railways that is added to this collective message is a bet that gets people who are more than average environmental conscious, who really want to take trains, who don't want to have a private car, to say: Siri, this can't, we can't drive trains, there's no room for us, we can't be there. They've waited too long for it to be no seat. And just to avoid misunderstandings, that's not what it's about. But not even a little hope of perhaps being sure that at least you get a stand in the morning, we'll be able here in Stortinget to give people in the central east region, perhaps the area that would be best suited for the use of railways in public transport. Then, in the national transport plan, a new double track between Oslo and Ski was originally introduced. It might help solve the problems. But it's just to record that the money that's going to be needed to solve the problem is not coming. The words are in place, but if it's going to take as long as it looks now, before the money comes into place, you'll probably have taught anyone who wants to be environmentally friendly, to use public transport in Akershus before they arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e232	The President makes it clear that the President has taken on his shirt. The President hopes that it may prevent the next speaker from calling the President 'Mr President'. Two of the speakers have called the President 'Mr President'.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e235	President! In this part of the debate, I just want to draw attention to the fact that the Government wants to facilitate the creation of more express bus routes. The aim of this is to liberalise the provision of an overall better route for the public. This will enable public transport to strengthen its position in competition with the private car. The need-testing system for authorising the operation of express bus routes will be set up to date in order to enable public transport authorities to view public transport as a whole. In the course of the debate, a large degree of agreement has been reached on increasing the attention and focus on different collective services. SV has also raised a significant increase in the financial framework in this case, but we have gradually learned to live with this. One is amazed, however, when one in the Newspaper today can read that the NSB management, at Arne Wam, presents the death list of sections that can be closed. In fact, I thought it was the Stortinge that determines the service offer when purchasing services in the NSB – now and in the future. We want to get more transport for each penny. Public transport shall be as efficient and efficient as possible and those required to provide transport services are not occupied by the ownership but by the timely movement of trains, aircraft and buses. The audience will have availability and service for the money, and the main elements to achieve this are price, speed, quality and regularity. We will therefore increase the level of public transport. The Christian People's Party wants to have the environment and people in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e244	Strengthening public transport is about shifting society in a more environmentally friendly direction, including: because increased private cars lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions. Strengthening public transport is also about creating a better environment in cities and agglomerations, as it is primarily in cities that private car transport leads to local environmental problems, such as: pollution and noise. In this context, a broad majority points out that municipalities have a key role to play in ensuring the environmentally friendly development of transport patterns. A municipality that wants to take such local responsibility is the municipality of Tromsø. In Tromsø, for many years, there has been a separate local petrol charge at the top of the charges that we are arguing about here in Stortinget. This fee has been used for Tromsøpacket 1 to improve the accessibility of Tromsø, among others. through the development of tunnels inside Tromsøya. Now it's working on Tromsøpack 2. When I think it has to be mentioned today, it is because Tromsøpak 2 is fully in line with the objectives of increasing public transport investment and improving environmental policy, objectives that the Government is at least presenting in its speeches and in its speeches. While Tromsøpack 1 had a distribution of 80 pst. to weigher, the proposal in Tromsøpakt 2 is that only 20 pst. must go to the road, while 80 pst. must go to public transport and soft road users. So here, Tromsø's citizens want to use money from a petrol tax directly for public transport and road safety for pedestrians and cyclists. There must be music in the ears of a councillor. But there's an important premise here, and that's that the state is also making up. In a three-minute post I can't go into the whole case, but there are three things that I want to bring up today. Firstly, in Tromsø, the Right Party and the Advance Party have committed themselves to Tromsøpakt 2. I sincerely hope that the right-wing government will be able to ignore its own in this matter and not let the Advance Party decide the government's policy. Secondly, when the government hopefully says yes – and after what I understand, there may be a case for Stortingen next spring – the government should ensure that the state contributes far more to the fissure layer. As it is now, the state contribution is only about 30 pst. So it's a local fraction of 70 pst. In Tromsøpakt 1, when the main effort was road construction, the state share was much larger. The Municipal Council in Tromsø decided on Wednesday, two weeks ago, that the overall framework should be increased to 600 million. kr. Thirdly, the Government must also agree that the revenue from the petrol tax, which can be compared with tolls elsewhere in the country, can be used for measures other than road development, for example. public transport. It's very good in Tromsøpack 2. It's a bet that should be completely in the spirit of the Left Party. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to engage personally in this matter. In close cooperation with the political leadership of the municipality of Tromsø, we can, through this case, both strengthen the commitment to public transport and facilitate a better urban environment in a municipality that also takes a great responsibility locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e259	Biggest representatives like to think they know Oslo. But I'd rather say that the way most of the big business representatives know Oslo is from the walk through the Castle Park, from Green Street and down Karl Johan to the big business building. I think that's a good and correct description. Had it been a full hall, I would like to ask the question, asked for a handshake, and asked how many in this room there were who had taken both the bus and the T-track up and down through the Groruddalen. I see one representative here, but he also represents Oslo, so it should just be missing. The reason why I say this is the following: the Grorud valley is a place where there are about 120,000 people. The Groruddalen would be one of Norway's absolute largest cities if it had been a separate city. It's not. Because so many large-scale representatives rarely or never move up and down through Groruddalen, Groruddalen is rarely noticed by the representatives. The Groruddalen rarely gets the position in the transport policy it deserves. Every day about 575,000 people travel to and from Groruddalen. You have huge noise problems, you have huge dust problems, and you have air pollution that's as great in winter days as in London. The Groruddalen is the valley of opportunity. Groruddalen is the place where most dwellings can be built, and the place that can solve Oslo's housing problems. This is an enormous potential for improving the entire infrastructure, but it requires that the Groruddalen be set. Therefore, SV believes that the Stortinget must be presented with a proper package of measures for the Groruddalen, which involves a commitment to public transport, which involves a commitment to upgrading, and which will make the Groruddalen a great place to live in the time to come. Then I want to draw a parallel, because that's the way that the bet that should take place in the Groruddalen in the period that comes should be at least the size of the bet that was made on the environmental city of Old Oslo. We will then be able to achieve that all the objectives we set in terms of air quality, noise and public transport – which are referred to in a warm and fine way – benefit the citizens of Oslo, and that we get a good place – an enormously beautiful crop valley in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e271	The public transport notification is in many ways a good message. However, there is little in the communication on ferries and ferry transport. As you know, ferries are still a very important collective means of transport along the coast. Although ferries and ferry connections may have been dealt with in other matters and contexts, I feel that a special project is so important to the region that I myself come from, that I want to take it up here and now. It concerns a ferry link across the county border between More and Romesdal and South Trøndelag, which can actually be characterised as a development project for a large coastal district. Today’s Hitra-North-Møre connection should be replaced and moved to the shortest possible distance over Trondheimsleia, and then between Hitra in South-Trøndelag and Aure in More and Romesdal. That there should naturally be a connection operated by ‘gas ferry’, I hope most people will think when someone knows that the ferry rental will be located close to the Tent Goods of Aure – the gas node The Tent Goods. This new link will undoubtedly be a very important instrument for creating further growth in business. At all events, it will be a matter of proper organisation to develop a larger and more attractive coastal housing and labour market region in central Norway. I allow myself to recommend to the Minister for Transport that this link be put on the map as a future national road ferry link as soon as possible and that it should be established at the latest at the time when the planned Imarsund project between Aure and Tustna on Northern Ireland is being developed. The result will be a significantly better provision of public transport which will contribute to a positive social development in a large region in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e284	I have noticed that the Council of State cordially invites further efforts on public transport. Well, not much hearty where I come from, and no further bet either – it's full stop! I think the Council of State knows what route and what I'm talking about, and hopefully the Council of State also has a little bad conscience because it's so bad there, that's on the Westfold Railway. The cars that run that route use fourth or fifth generation roadways, while the trains use the first generation rails, from 1881. The government already knows that, so I guess I don't really have to repeat that. It is built on the E18 – it is finished now – and if I had remembered to renew my driving licence a few years ago, I would have guaranteed to take the car instead of using the train, despite the fact that I really prefer to use trains. It's much more comfortable. I can get the job on the train, and it's environmentally friendly, not least – the train really has all the advantages. It's just one problem, and that's that you get high blood pressure from driving trains, because there's so many delays, it takes so long, and you don't get to sit. When the Council of State says that it is important to give young people good travel habits and lower the prices for young people, it does not help when they see with their own eyes – they are able to think sea – that this is no good alternative to a car. So, I'll take the note instead. I think it's going to be a strange experience to sit in the hall and hear representatives from the Workers' Party and from the Cooperation Government discuss and argue about who really owes it to who is so bad around when it comes to public transport. For most people, it's uninteresting and it doesn't matter. They're interested in something happening. State councilman Skogsholm says that what you do is just to continue what the government Stoltenberg has done. If this government doesn't have a higher level of ambition than the government of Stoltenberg did, the government really should keep it to itself. That's not something the public should hear about, if we want people to have faith that we actually want the best for public transport. In Westfold, from which I come, it has been a big problem that the Christian People's Party has repeatedly said to bet on the Westfold course, because people would like to believe what we are saying. However, when it turns out in practice that this does not happen, that the national transport plan is really just a inkling of words and is not followed up in practice in the state budget, it becomes directly embarrassing. It creates political disdain, and I think that is dangerous. Then you can cut out the nice words, and then you can be more realistic about what you mean by bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e299	There are many questions that are raised related to what public transport is, and to what kind of bet is needed around the country. The representative Sørensen asked, "What is the level of ambition?" I want to underline once again that the collective message is an extra boost to the big cities. That's what the bet is about. These include increased funds and an additional boost in relation to the environmental and health problems that are primarily a major urban problem, and this is about investing in student discounts. It is important that we realize that there are two types of collective policies. One is too big a city and the other is generally for the rest of the country. I want to sum up some of the things in the message just when we talk about the railway. Yes, we need money, but it is also possible to take other steps along the way. Only to show what is contained in the Communication: there is a majority of targeted bets on the largest cities, and there is a commitment to the quality promise of public transport, which must now be given priority over general tariff reductions. It also endorses the proposal to set up incentive schemes to reward cities switching from the use of private cars for the use of public transport, and endorses the view of public transport as an environmental policy instrument. It is a majority for the combination of better public transport and local traffic regulation – whip and carrot – and it is a majority to bet on the railway, where the railway has its greatest advantage. I have noticed that there is a majority who discuss this with the transport of goods, and that is in the middle of the flash in relation to the work we are doing with regard to the transport plan. It's a majority of youth discounts, also for apprentices, and I want to follow this up. It is a majority for attempts with more authority for cities, it is a majority for a more liberal express bus policy, it is a majority for quality contracts, and it is also a majority for tendering for some sections of trains. This picture gives us an indication of where we want to go. This gives us a way to go to meet the ambitions we have. I have heard that a researcher from the Transport Economics Institute has mentioned this collective communication in very good order, and said that from an international perspective what lies here is very exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e317	I record that representatives Jan Sahl and Odd Holten from the Christian People's Party do not like to be reminded of the election vows. I can make that promise to them that I will never be the one to go back and talk about the story, about what we did and didn't do in the last period, but they can be very sure that the election promises I will repeat and repeat, so that we are absolutely sure of them. This is particularly true of representatives who find it opportune to stand on the platform and instruct us others in budgetary discipline. When I was standing on Karl Johan and couldn't promise 25 pst. reduction to all public transport, we also had budget discipline during the election campaign period. I think that might be a virtue, and it's important to remember. It surprises me that the representative Odd Holten is amazed at the essay in the newspaper today. As rapporteur of the case, I expect that he has read both the setting and what we have been working on, very carefully. In the setting, we have a small minority comment that includes this very point that the government is proposing to give NSB BA the opportunity to cancel all or part of the passenger train transport if the train transport offer cannot meet the competition from the express bus offer. If it's true that Holten believes what he actually said instead that this responsibility should still be on the Storting, why didn't he jump in and make a majority here? Then it would have been like this. I hope now that's what Holten said in this debate that applies, and not what he unfortunately forgot to create a majority for when we discussed this communication in the committee. So finally, I agree with the Council of State that there is a lot of good in this message. All that is good in this message is that we have also helped to secure a majority in favour. The most exciting thing is the incentive scheme. I hope we get it done so that we get started with a little cereal subsidy next year, so that the public companies get some money to get good for. The second important thing is that we have our own coordination body for public transport in the Eastern region. We need that – we need that – if we are to solve some of the major challenges we are facing. I am disappointed that no major organizational measures were taken, but I hope that this is not the last time we handle public transport in its breadth. I hope that in subsequent rounds we will also be able to experience that we are committed to public transport, so that it becomes right, as the Council of State says, that the real battle will be in the budget rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e328	Just a few comments at the end. It is obvious that it is painful for individuals that a majority will arrange for child care policies in this country, so that parents can be safe in kindergartens at a decent price. It's very striking that the five billion to it is so awfully much money that it will blow up every frame. When the Labour Party and the Government agreed yesterday or yesterday on a framework of NOK 118 billion when it comes to defence, the framework was certainly not so dangerous. I do not fully understand that it is so dangerous to spend money on kindergartens, nor is it so dangerous to make a settlement. As far as the representative Sahl is concerned, it has participated in the debt of cash support, which has bound up promises for many years. So why is it going to be so much more irresponsible now, I don't understand. Then I agree with the representative of Thorkildsen that we must now look forward. We're talking more about what we're going to get in the future. Now we have to tell what to do, and do what we say, in the next round. I get a strange feeling that the council doesn't really bring the money to the cottage that we're here to talk about today. Now she talks most about it as if it were the Stortinget that makes the budget. But it's the central responsibility of the Council of State to come to the Storting and follow up on what the majority have said, and then we're going to be there to follow up. It's not that the state council can come up with little and bet that the Storting is adding on. There's a situation in this mess that makes some people want to pull the wrong road. Another thing I would also want the Council of State to do, in addition to bringing in the money that she is now going to go to lie where the three remaining years of this period, was that she got the government to look to the left. It is not useful for the Government to go to the Progress Party to get more money for trains and for collective betting. Then it becomes much smaller. Now I hope that we can see each other, and not least see the voters, in the eyes of the fall, and that we will do what we promise now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3111]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e355	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e364	We are dealing here with Document No. 8:94, from the representatives Hedstrøm, Solholm, Sandberg and Vaksdal, to draw up guidelines for the employment conditions of persons in the management of companies with state participation. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, wishes to stress that the Governing Board must determine the salary and other conditions of the Executive Director. The majority believe that flexibility for directors also in the setting of wages is important in order for businesses to attract skilled managers. At the same time, the same majority would stress that, as long as moderate wage-fixing is encouraged to maintain and strengthen Norwegian competitiveness, managers have a responsibility to emerge as good examples and to show moderation in determining wages, salaries and pension agreements. The majority refers to the publication in September 2001 of guidance on employment conditions for managers in state-owned enterprises. The Right and Christian People's Party consider that the Government should consider whether these guidelines can also be applied to companies in which the State is a joint owner. The Progress Party and the Centre Party and the Workers' Party and the SV respectively have their own comments that they will probably explain themselves. For the Right and Christian People's Party, it is important to point out that the salary level of managers in Norwegian companies is not very high in comparison with the salary level in other countries it is natural to compare us with. However, we have noticed the media's attention about some of the leaders' wages and pay agreements in recent years. For the Right Party and for the Christian People's Party, it is an important principle that the right of elected governments to determine the wages of their leaders should always be the right. This is important in order to provide the boards with the necessary flexibility to attract the best managers to the companies. Being the leader of an enterprise involves a high level of responsibility and a high risk to the individual manager. We have several examples of a failure in leadership that has had a major impact on individuals. Therefore, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party believe that it is important that the boards of companies are free to pay with their leaders, so that they can secure the persons they think are best suited to the position in question and who are also willing to accept the responsibility it entails. However, the Right and Christian People's Party would point out that it is important to conclude wage agreements that are proportionate to the responsibilities and risks taken by managers and that do not appear unreasonable to other employees of the different companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e383	This is one of several issues in Stortinget that is the result of some of today's business leaders being too greedy, if one can use such a word in this context. Most of us have reacted strongly to the wage developments that have taken place, and numerous reminders and recommendations on moderation have been made to Norwegian top managers without any significant help, both from this house, from the workers' side and not least from the employers' own organisation, NHO. It is difficult to go into and instruct in such matters, and it is the responsibility of the board of directors together with the managers concerned to show responsibility also in companies with state participation. We have chosen, although we sympathise with the ideas of the Progress Party, not to be on the proposal. Neither are we in the comments of the government parties. The reason is that the Arbeiderpartiet Jens Stoltenberg together with SV's Kristin Halvorsen has promoted a Document No. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:136, on measures to increase transparency and awareness of management salaries. The Workers' Party believes that the content of this proposal will cover the intentions of more transparency in the remuneration of directors in a very large proportion of the limited liability companies owned by the State today in part or in full. We believe that openness will seem preventative. Then they have to show to the public, to everyone, what kind of pay agreements and other forms of agreements have been concluded in the company, and this will probably cause some to become a little more precise than they have been to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e392	This year, too, we have had a debate on parachutes, i.e. gold-plated wage, salary and pension agreements for managers of the business community. We've all experienced that and marked this spring. The newspaper presented a survey on 26 February this year, which showed that the top managers of the country's eight largest companies have had almost four times as high pay increases as the average of the employees of these companies in 10 years. Then any bonuses and option programs are not included. In half of these companies, namely Telenor, Statoil, Norsk Hydro and DnB, the State holds significant holdings. Retiring group manager of Telenor, Tormod Hermansen is the payroll winner. Hermansen earns four and a half times as much in his last year of work as he did when he started in 1991. With an equal wage increase, employees today would have earned an average of NOK 900000. Another survey presented in today's business 6/7. This year, based on the figures on earnings growth in large international companies in 50 countries, carried out by Hay Group, shows exactly the same thing. The higher in the hierarchy of the largest business managers, the higher the percentage increase in wages. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that this applies to a smaller number of persons in management positions in the largest enterprises, while other managers in smaller enterprises have a more wage trend in line with normal employees. That's why it's the unreasonableness of top managers that needs to be focused on. In the view of the Progress Party, this has developed an unculture that gives very negative signals to the general formation of wages in society and undermines both social morality and the understanding of moderation in wage making. Several leading politicians have a view that goes in the same direction, and I would like to mention that at a contact meeting with the social partners on 1 March, government officials were concerned that greedy leaders could make the wage settlement more difficult. Kjell Magne Bondevik said the following: ‘Although these are few of the country’s business leaders, it is undermining and a very unfortunate signal to workers before an important and exciting settlement.’ Jens Stoltenberg thundered against sky-high executive salaries in his 1st May speech this year. He was concerned about making it more difficult for leaders to grant themselves wages and benefits that break with the perception of what is a decent salary. However, there is little to do in this house to stop this development in private business other than to make recommendations and recommendations, or to demand increased publicity about management salaries. It can be expected that the board of a limited liability company will put itself in a very poor light if it manages the values of its shareholders in an adverse way, and it must therefore be prepared to take the consequences. Governors acting unreasonablely and irresponsiblely by providing excessive pay supplements as well as gold-sided remuneration and pension agreements may be held liable and replaced. In companies with state ownership, this is different, because big business and government have a strong influence on ownership. It is therefore our duty to react if we see that ownership is managed in a way that is detrimental to the owners. With effect from 3 September last year, full-time state companies have provided guidance on employment conditions. These guidelines are comprehensive in our opinion: the level of management pay should be competitive, but not pay-per-view compared to private companies. Clear terms and conditions are set for retirement benefits and post-employment benefits that we believe are moderate and reasonable. Licensing guidelines should be introduced in state-owned companies as soon as possible. These are significant establishments. In companies where the State is a majority, they may be introduced by majority voting in the governing bodies. In the case of companies whose representatives are in a minority, they should respect the same rules. This can be done by committing themselves to the implementation of these guidelines on the conditions of employment of management persons, where appropriate before being appointed as the government representative of the State. When the ministry only wants to assess whether the guidelines in whole state companies can also be applied in companies where the state is a joint owner, we do not think it is good enough. This could be introduced relatively per. immediately. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Advance Party and the Central Party, which have been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e419	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3113]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e434	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e525	During the debate, Mr Jagland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a people’s fund for the Palestinian refugees and to contribute a significant amount. The Norwegian people are invited to contribute.’ An alternative will be to vote between the suspension and the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e552	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Bjørgulf Froyn on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Bjørgulf Froyn on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Bjørgulf Froyn on behalf of the Workers' Party proposals No. 5-14, from Heidi Sørensen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. It is first voted on the proposals 5-14, from the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The following objectives for the use of means of transport in urban public transport shall be taken into account:1. The proportion of journeys by car shall not exceed 40 pst.2. The proportion of trips made collectively should be between 15-35 pst.3. The proportion of journeys by bicycle or gangway should be between 25-50 pst.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base health and environmental criteria on the revision of the air quality regulations. The new regulations must also require that all new projects/actions which will increase air pollution in already loaded areas cannot be implemented without compensatory measures.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the 2003 government budget to come back with a plan to effectively reduce climate emissions from the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a proposal for an introductory appropriation for local public transport of 200 million. expenditure related to the draft 2003 budget.’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the transfers to local public transport from the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the Ministry of Transport and to the budget of the Ministry of Transport and to be given as a framework transfer to the counties. Re-reporting of the use of the funds from the counties has to be required.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in the context of the 2003 State Budget with a plan for stepping up the infrastructure measures on the railways in line with the Betsings scenario’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a communication on public freight transport in the first half of 2003.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘1. The Great Government is asking the Government to cooperate with the Municipality of Oslo to upgrade the metro line in Oslo to the Metro standard.2. The State contribution to this work should be 1 billion over the period 2002-2005. crowns.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘In the context of the 2003 State Budget, a grant scheme is established for actions that could facilitate the dissemination of the billing mechanism to new groups. The grant scheme must include information and marketing measures and measures related to the further development of infrastructure in image sharing schemes.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for quality requirements for the collective offer [[collective normals]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e646	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the 2003 draft State budget, to submit a pilot scheme to allow cities and urban areas themselves to receive State grants for public transport.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e661	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The student trampoline of the NSB, Nord-Norbussen and Hurtigruta shall be reintroduced from 1 August 2002.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to present a package of measures to reduce air pollution and increase collective interests in the Groruddalen as soon as possible and no later than in spring 2003.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e683	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget in connection with the 2003 State Budget with proposals to introduce a school and student discount of 50 pst. from 1 January 2003.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e705	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e708	We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e739	During the debate, Øystein Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidance on the conditions of employment of persons in the management of companies with State participation in line with guidance given to managers in state-owned undertakings.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-13-2.ana.ud2263e768	There is no record.
