ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e51	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e54	On behalf of Jens Stoltenberg, Signe Øye and myself, we put forward proposals on housing measures for young people and economically disadvantaged people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e59	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e76	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Councillor Lars Sponheim Councillor Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e95	To the municipal minister: the Labour Party believes that we need to make it easier for young people to get a place to live. Then we have to build more dwellings, and we have to reduce the growth in housing prices. Now we see that the housing is falling. This means that prices will increase further. Youth is hit hardest by it. The strongest means of raising the housing structure is the availability of reasonable loans in the House Bank. But the House Bank now announces that it will run out in August. Mr. Bondevik and Mr. Solberg are in prison with their hands and let it happen. How can the Government with open eyes passively look at the House Bank running empty?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e102	It is true that the building rate fell by 12 pst. the first quarter. All the signals indicate that it will go up in the second quarter. Most analysts say that the reason for the fall in housing construction is actually the uncertainty created after 11 September – an uncertainty that, therefore, mainly affects the most sensitive market we have in Norway, namely the housing and housing market. It is that all interest rate changes, all instability in relation to the economic future, have the greatest impact on the number of dwellings being built. No funding institution can counteract the kind of signals given when people are afraid of the future, because housing investment is the most important investment people make. This is why, in fact, the most important tool for raising housing in this country is to ensure stable growth, to ensure that we have framework conditions around people's housing investments that enable them to have confidence that interest rates will stay low. These are those who are to finance the construction, various contractors and others, but also those who are to buy housing. This is why the Government has chosen to ensure that it adds to a revised national budget that does not increase its activity further, thus pushing interest rates, in addition to what the rule of action says. I would like to say that any increase in the financial framework in the Husbank would lead to an increase in the pressure in the activity in Norway, because it would increase access to loan capital in the Norwegian market. So I think it's important that we have what's the most important instrument, I feel, that's stability. Trust in the investment made in housing is also crucial for the continued growth of housing construction in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e111	The main means of reducing the interest rate on mortgages is that more people can access cheap loans in the House Bank. It doesn't cost the government one penny in the budget, but for someone who borrows 800,000 kroner and has a deposit of 25 years, that means a loan advantage of $100,000. It repeats that more dwellings will be built than would otherwise have been, and that means that the pressure on the housing market will be less. It was also the case that at the autumn budgetary procedure, the Council of State Solberg said that the Government would ‘come back with an assessment of the loan framework in relation to the revised national budget to see if it is large enough’. We know it's not big enough! Nevertheless, the Government fails to increase the framework. And as I said, it doesn't cost the government one penny in the budget to let people benefit from that state, because it's a safe borrower, can borrow money cheaply and lend it to people, so they get lower interest rates, and so we get the housing, which is the most important thing to solve the housing problems for young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e120	An increase in interest rates by increasing the activity, is going to cost all those who are going to buy a dwelling, and all the contractors who are going to build, expensive. It's going to be next year to make the mortgage rate also rise, because we have a formula for how we set the mortgage rate. It's based on the level of interest that we have. That means that we're spending too much money now, it's the owners, the housing buyers, the housing builders and the building rate that's going to get dizzy first. That is why we have put forward a responsible approach in relation to prioritising instruments. It's like 80 pst. the financing of residential purchases in this country takes place in the private market. 40 pst. the new building is financed by the Husbanken. But it's just 70 pst. of the loans financed only by the Husbank; the top level financing is already taking place today in the form of borrowing in the private market. We're going to weigh something more of the ordinary housing structure. What is not for the targeted groups has to enter the ordinary loan market, and then we're going to say that the priority groups are still going to have priority in the Husbank, and we have a loan framework to lend to, among other things. all youth projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e125	There have been reports of quite a number of main questions, so the President will try two follow-up questions for each of the main issues initially. First follow-up questions – Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e130	The right has long gone in to turn the House Bank from the bank we know, which has lent to a million Norwegian houses, into a bank that is just going to lend to so-called deferred groups. This will lead to smaller housing and higher prices, and this is, of course, the worst for young people. The Christian People’s Party therefore agrees with the Labour Party that the House Bank should be as it is now. During the budgetary procedure last year, the Solberg Council of State said: ‘Rights have not given up this position, and we have said clearly that it is the establishment bank element that we are going to give priority to.’ Is this not the main reason why the Government will not now increase the lending framework of the House Bank, and not the strong focus on the interest rate issue that the Government had in its previous response?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e142	I think you should have focus on interest as essential in all the government does. There are people who have borrowed almost to the pipe -- fortunately not as much as in the mid 1980s. There are very many young people who today are very concerned about what it will do with their private economy if we contribute to an economy that increases interest rates because they have large mortgages. Yes, it is right that the Right wants to turn the House Bank into a first home bank. In fact, it is true that the Government in the Sem-Declaration also says that the main business of the House Bank is to do its first home banking tasks. It is to support the construction of projects related to youth and housing, to provide grants to rental homes, to social purposes and to ensure that housing policies also have a social side. It is the public's role in housing policy in the future. The home bank will never be able to solve everything. We haven't said that people aren't going to get loans, but they're the lowest priority within the framework we have, and the framework is set to ensure that interest rates don't go up in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e149	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e153	Let me first say that I share the views of the Council of State on the role of the House Bank, largely. Clearly, there are several areas that affect both housing and price. My question and my challenge to the Council of State is in relation to this with the offer and demand for land. Does the Council of State see a job facing the municipalities, perhaps there is a greater obligation to allocate larger areas to plots? So a question in relation to pressed strokes, like Oslo. Here, restrictions are placed on where it can be built. Does the Council of State have a role to play in influencing the process of expanding the areas on which it is possible to build houses in Oslo and in other press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e160	I do not intend to impose on any municipalities an obligation to regulate new areas for housing. I believe that the plan we have today shows that it is one of the important purposes we should have when we have land regulation. In fact, I believe that in most parts of this country, responsible municipal politicians are able to see that organising housing – and varied housing – is an important part of the tasks of a municipality. What I think is important is to make sure that we get the planning processes more on the rails, so that it goes faster. We can ensure that private developers who want to create their own private control plan do not experience training in the public bureaucracy and that the construction process gets faster. Both the Minister for the Environment and I come back to Stortinget with suggestions. They may be treated during the harvest holiday. It's an important contribution. It is important that in a number of areas we provide less bureaucracy in the construction process, because it also means less costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e167	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e170	I have here a pile of solid evidence about the situation in Kommune-Noreg and the dramatic effects of the Government's policies that people now know about the body. It is felt like a special provocation by all the parents and all those who joined the municipalities who prided themselves on the Right, and who voted on the Right because the Right would work for a better school. Here's an example from Nittedal: a teacher per. class including special instruction. And from Fredrikstad: 26 teachers away, five more classes. That's how I could go on. My question to the Minister for Municipalities is these: Will the Minister for Local Government still give priority to tax relief for the richest, rather than a basic security that now seems to be being removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e177	I am also able to document the situation in the municipalities on a daily basis, and I agree that there are many municipalities that are struggling and have a difficult situation. I believe that the head of the Municipal Committee, representing the Central Party, should think that the situation in Municipal Norway today is not a result of the last year's budget. It is the result of a situation that has built up over several years. There has been a deficit in many municipalities, and there have been major changes. I would remind you that in two of the years when the Senter Party sat with the municipal minister, free revenues ended at minus 0.4 pst, respectively. and minus 0.5 pst. I think the Central Party should include a certain degree of humility in the debate, related to what they have actually contributed when they have been in position to do something in relation to Municipality-Norway. So for 2003, we are in a situation where we have a tight budget, because the government parties and the opposition have been involved in many decisions to be financed only in 2003. I think we should learn from the fact that we should not adopt too much that has effect date from 1 November or 1 October, because then we do not have the overall priorities for each year's budget ahead of us, and then we can get into a situation where we have prioritised other things, perhaps in relation to tasks we already had. But I want to say that there is a division of responsibility between government and big business. Some of the decisions to be financed primarily in 2003 have actually been adopted against the votes of the government parties here in Stortinget. So it's not that there's necessarily a conflict by giving tax relief to the rich. In fact, the reason for reducing the tax burden in Norway is to have a long-term opportunity to have jobs in Norway. And just as worried as I am about the local government economy, I'm worried that more and more companies are moving out of their activity or shutting down. Across the coast there are now problems in the fishing industry. It should worry us as much as what level of cost we put ourselves on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e184	It is alarming that the country has a municipal minister who does not take it into account that this year the municipalities actually have an extra DKK 6 billion in pension expenditure, and that they will have additional pension expenditure in the coming years, which means that hospitals will be standing empty if the state does not set up, that one has to merge school classes, and that teachers will be removed. I register that the Council of State will now share responsibility. The centre party takes responsibility. We actually made sure of a better economy and not a worse one when we were in government, even though the country's economic situation was difficult. And we have repeatedly suggested measures for improvement in the Storting. The Council of State does not answer my question: are we still committed more to tax relief for the richest? Or will she join us and take a roof to secure the basic security in relation to school and care, which is now on the move?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e193	It is the way I perceive that the job as a municipal minister is not just talking about the income side of the municipal sector. I have to be equally concerned about how I'm going to bring down the expenses that make sure that this country is driven out in a difficult competitive situation, and that undermines the growth power of the Norwegian economy. Getting taxes and taxes down is an important part of it. It is also important to ensure a responsible economic policy that does not increase interest rates. Because if the interest rate goes up, we know that an interest rate increase of 1 percent point means 800 million. kr more in expenditure of the local government sector. To put it this way: the government in which the Senter Party sat in and had the municipal minister experienced interest rises in 1998. The local government sector had a huge deficit that year because you couldn't keep track of the economy, and because there were unforeseen things happening. But these are the things that happen, and that make us responsible for what we do. With regard to pension expenditure, I would like to draw attention to one thing: there is not one pension corporation that has sent out the bill in 2002 yet. All the numbers we're discussing are theoretical.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e200	There will be follow-up questions - Ola T. Heggem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e203	I have noticed the response of the Council of State, both here in the Grand Chamber today and to 90 rapporteurs whom she met here in Oslo two days ago. From my point of view, which is daily in local policy, as rapporteur, this is primarily a matter of welfare for most people, not party politics. So to the question, is it really that the Council of State and the Government originally meant to add that offer, for example, in kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly — important national policy areas — will be reduced around the country? Or is it that the Council of State simply does not believe in all the documentation provided by local politicians over the country these days?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e210	This is how we propose a growth in the income of the municipal sector next year. The growth is greatest in the earmarked schemes. It really seems to me to be gross, because I think what's important is that we get the most growth in free income. But the reason for the growth of the earmarked schemes is that we are in the final phase of implementing the elderly care plan, we are building up support for kindergartens, and we are working on implementing the psychiatry plan – which therefore also means a census in the municipal sector. I believe that it is important that we focus on how we can use the money better. It is a potential for conversion and efficiency in Kommune-Norway. It is fully possible for many municipalities to engage more actively in intermunicipal cooperation on many of the administrative tasks in order to find ways to reduce expenditure, for example: to the administration. It is also the case that the consultations we have had with KS and the available data base show negative productivity developments in all areas except kindergartens in the municipal sector. We can't keep doing it like this. We have to figure out better ways to drive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e215	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e219	If the Council of State and the Government are really concerned about business and the future, you have to bet on the school. It must be so good that each student is given optimal use of his/her resources. Yesterday we had a visit to Stortinget from Fredrikstad. Several parents came and were very concerned. They had students who were not disabled but who might need some customized training. It's going to end now. There will be only one teacher in each class, and there will only be special education for those with a defined disability. It's the misuse of resources! These parents said to us: we can choose if we want to teach these kids to read and write now, or we can leave it. And the Council of State should know that there is a majority in the Grand Council for money for a better school. Why then prioritize a government council from a party that promised better school, tax havens and more money to the defense in front of what would sustain the business of which she sails say she is so concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e226	I believe that it is essential for a country to have a defence where there is a connection between investment and operations, so that we can take on the commitment it is to have well enough qualified people with good enough equipment if we are to participate in international operations, as we are doing today. In fact, I think it's my responsibility as a politician to make sure that our defence is consistent with the tasks we think we should participate in. That is why it is important that we provide funding. Sending people with insufficient training and insufficient equipment in that kind of situation would be risking Norwegian human lives. We're actually in that kind of situation right now. That's why I would think it was right that we also say that it gives us politicians a responsibility when we participate in international operations. When it comes to investing in school, it's actually like this government does. We're doing it by outlining several major system reforms to improve quality, we're doing it through trials that need to improve teacher training, we're doing it through a number of quality improvement measures. I agree that it is sad that next year we will have a municipal economy that also pushes the school. Therefore, we need to make sure that we have room for the future. [[The President clubs and advertises the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e233	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e236	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The EEA Parliamentary Committee unanimously adopted the following item at its meeting in Reykjavik on 27 May: «... calls on the EEA EFTA States to agree on a common position for the updating of the EEA Agreement Agreement to counteract breaks in the legal homogeneity of the Internal Market as a result of the EC Treaty changes after the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, and to submit its proposal to the Commission at the earlier possible stage.» A unanimous parliamentary committee therefore calls on the EEA/EFTA countries to provide the Commission with a document of their wishes and positions for updating the EEA Agreement. Norway has the primary responsibility that this has been combined with the fact that it has not happened before. Will the Foreign Minister now take an initiative to follow up the unanimous decision of the EEA Parliamentary Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e250	There has been a wish from the Norwegian side, and from other EFTA States, that there be a link between the EEA Agreement and the new contract work adopted in the EU after the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. It's a so-called technical update. So that means that it's the technique of what it's about, not material rules. So it's a neatness point of view that's below this, more than a material point of view. However, there has been a desire to get this done. The possibilities for such negotiations have been explored, and we have been very clearly informed by the Commission that on this side of the enlargement negotiations there is no capacity to enter into these types of assessments. It has been made known in a number of contexts, not least in the meeting I last had with Commissioner de Palacio here in Oslo not so many months ago. We have several negotiating arrangements we want to implement with the EU side – not least compensation negotiations on fish, which we will discuss with the bodies of Storting before the summer holidays. It's a substantive, important question and it's priority number. 1st@item: inlistbox We have therefore taken the initiative in terms of progress, the answer we have received on a number of occasions from the European Commission. When Carl I. Hagen says that it is ‘slightly’ from the Norwegian side, he probably understands that it is an expression that is not particularly precise.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e261	I really don't accept the Foreign Minister's allegations here about probes. You never get specific answers until you have made a formal enquiry. Commissioner Westerlund told a joint parliamentary committee in Iceland – and it was in an official meeting, not a coffee talk – that they did not refuse to talk to EFTA, but that they were waiting for an EFTA proposal. He also said that the Commission did not see any major problems with the EEA Agreement, but that they would not oppose conversations if EFTA wanted to do so. So the ball is on the EFTA side. Why, then, can the Foreign Minister not see to it that a document is received, ask for formal talks and not just accept that some Commissioners have more than enough to do and would prefer to let go, if, when a formal wish was given to them, a single Commission would perhaps do something? For fisheries too, there should be substance in what we are proposing, namely to try to get fisheries and market access into the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e270	I'm terribly afraid that what Carl I. Hagen accepts or doesn't, has no special bearing on whether my description is correct or not. It's still right. The term ‘coffee chat’ may not be the most precise one I have heard. Otherwise, I have to say that Carl I. Hagen is now talking about two different processes. The question he originally raised was the question of a technical update of the EEA Agreement. There is a definite need for this because both the Maastricht Treaty and the Amsterdam Treaty have come since that time. Something quite different, far more important, and which is priority no. 1, is what Carl I. Hagen now addressed, the substantive issues related to fishing and export. But that's another thing. Not least, these compensatory negotiations must take place before we have an EU enlargement. It is therefore important to prioritise and put full pressure on it. I can therefore assure Carl I. Hagen that these questions are under good control, and I must say that I am mildly astonished at his use of language. But I'll register it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e284	There will be follow-up questions – Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e287	I found that the Foreign Minister did not take seriously what the EEA Parliamentary Committee has asked for in a unanimous decision by Reykjavik. Does not a unanimous decision in such an important committee mean anything? The Foreign Minister himself was concerned that the fishing industry now needs an update, or at least market access, in relation to the EU, and when he does not want to take this seriously, I have to ask the question: What initiative will the Foreign Minister take in order for the fisheries industry to have an agreement, or to have market access in the EU that is more segregated than today? If he doesn't do anything, we have trouble following up our intentions that the fishing industry will be one of the main industries of the Norwegian economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e294	The question that Lodve Solholm is now raising is quite different from what Carl I. Hagen raised, and the EEA Committee raised in Reykjavik. What Carl I. Hagen mentioned was a technical update of the EEA Agreement under the Maastricht Agreement and the Amsterdam Agreement. I fully agree that this is desirable, but on that point several representatives of the Commission have given us very clear information that this is not what they have prioritised before the enlargement negotiations are completed. Because they're very demanding, we know that – and that's what we've been doing on our own. But a completely different issue, which is our priority, is what Lodve Solholm is now addressing, namely the question of how we deal with the situation of losing free trade rights in the candidate countries when the EU is expanding. As I said in the answer to Carl I. Hagen, that's the question we'd like to present to the EEA Committee before the summer vacation. But Lodve Solholm is raising a completely different question in his article now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e307	Thorbjørn Jagland – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e311	I really took the floor just to support the Foreign Minister on this point. I think it is strange that you are now starting to run a completely different race, or require you to run a completely different race on this question. I think it is very important for many reasons that it is the Government that is dealing with Norway's negotiating situation with the EU, which is very complicated, and I am very surprised that the Progress Party is now starting to mix the EEA Agreement and the issue of technical update of it with the fisheries issue. As you know, the fisheries issue was an important reason why we did not become a member of the EU, and that we therefore received a protocol on fisheries related to the EEA Agreement. So there's two very different things. This was not to make a spontaneous question, but to make a spontaneous comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e318	I appreciate that clarification from the Jagland side, because I think it's very right here to make it clear that one is the question of political substance, but the question that Carl I. Hagen travels, is just a question of a technical outsourcing of the contract work, to get it done more up to two dates. We want to do that, but there is no policy on that issue, and it was on the basis that I was mildly surprised by the language used. It's purely legal technique we're talking about here, and nothing that has to do with substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e323	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e326	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Two days ago, I received a phone call from the National Association for Traffic Damage. It was a despaired father who had called. Their 20-year-old daughter was enrolled in a nursing home, and in that nursing home there was already a person under 20. There was also another phone, from a man who had been placed in a nursing home when he was 20 years old, and there he had now been for 28 years. It wasn't exactly the place for him, and he didn't see any particular interest in the possibility that he would get out of there either, because now the government at the municipal minister has removed the means of action, the carrot that the municipalities have got to do so that they can provide housing for these young people. The government says that there are probably 1,000 young people living in age institutions, and in the plan they have now submitted, there is a new pilot project 30 per. two years to be allowed to move out. How many years are they supposed to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e337	For a number of years, there has been a system of support for printing people from hospitals. We can see that that system has not worked at all, because it is still about the same number of young people living in nursing homes. Instead of having a number of earmarked schemes in general, it is important to have a general framework funding system in relation to how municipalities get income, so that we get rid of part of the bureaucracy and the reporting procedures associated with having earmarked schemes. Thus, in modernising and simplifying a funding system, we are removing some directly earmarked schemes that are currently helping to generate bureaucracy and other things. We have made the assessment that this has hardly given the momentum that it was supposed to do when it was introduced. However, it does not remove the responsibility of municipalities to provide good housing for people with traffic damage outside hospitals, which are specially adapted and calculated for older people. The responsibility of the municipalities to do this is still there, and the municipalities are required to do so. So we believe that this is a grant that didn't give the effect you thought it would have when it came. There has probably been a crush on those who have used it, but there is also a subsidy that requires bureaucracy and reporting procedures. All of this is what we want to reduce, and the main way to reduce this is to give municipalities total responsibility for things without giving some earmarked arrangements in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e342	I thank you for the answer, but I find that I think it's just the municipal minister who's doing the job of buying housing without money. The framework for municipalities is now too narrow, they have to cut in schools, they have to put on the prices, they don't have the money to provide young people with disabilities. And then the council says that this grant, which isn't big, hasn't worked, and then we take that money away too. The size of the population has said that by 2005 young people should not live in homes where they are old and sick. I also note that the Government says that this is part of the modernisation policy. I sincerely hope not – that they see it as particularly modern that more than 1,000 young people will live in sickness and old age homes! And I have to ask the Council of State again: does the Government have any good explanation for how they will manage to solve the mission that Stortinget has given them, namely that there will not be any young people living in old age homes after 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e351	At least the answer has not necessarily been this form of grant. In the modernisation work, on the basis of which the Government has submitted to the Storting, which is about to delegate and decentralise authority, provide less control procedures and less bureaucracy and move resources from administration to service, it is necessary to remove the elements of the systems that create more bureaucracy. Earmarked schemes of this kind create more bureaucracy. In fact, I felt that the party leader in SV had also recognised in the election campaign, so I thought it was important that we move on to the framework funding and remove the earmarked schemes. What we're doing now is removing a number of earmarked schemes – this is one of them – and integrating them, and some, because they're small and not natural to put into distribution to everyone, we've chosen to liquidate. I think we underestimate how much more bureaucracy we create through, among other things. to have such reporting procedures. The Council of State responsible for such an earmarked scheme, i.e. the Minister of Social Affairs in this context, is responsible for the use of this money in Stortinget. It also requires follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e356	There will be three follow-up questions here – first Sigbjørn Molvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e359	It may seem that the mayor is almost more concerned with the systems than with the effects. The situation is that there are almost 1000 younger people living in old-age and sick homes. The emigration rate is, as Karin Andersen was inside, approx. 15 per cent. years, and when the Storting's goal is to get all of these out by 2005, we see that we're very, very far from the goal. We're almost not getting close at all. So in this situation, the government is removing the only incentive for the municipalities, municipalities that, as described earlier in this questionnaire, have a very tight financial situation. The question then arises: What other instruments and incentives will the Council of State take to speed up the relocation process, so that we can approach this target by 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e366	The reason why municipalities experience more bureaucracy, more designation and more problems in choosing tasks themselves is that we take each sector separately, and then we need to find one solution, one incentive, one way to do things in this room or in the political debate in general in the election campaigns. The sum of that is that there will be less room for action and freedom of action for municipalities to find solutions. Modernization and decentralization give you responsibility. That means that the municipalities are going to do the tasks, but we're going to take away some of the earmarked tools because it's bureaucratic. The argument used in this case may be applied to all other earmarked schemes. If we're going to have a policy that's going to take each piece separately, we're going to end up overlording the municipalities. It is contrary to the objective of this government, which is less detailed management, fewer earmarked schemes and greater autonomy. In that case, real priorities will be given room for action locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e375	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e379	I find the Council of State's argument a little strange: the incentive grant has not worked, so the Council of State and the Government want to include it in the framework grant – that's how I understand it. But what is it that means that municipalities will be more responsible if they get this in their framework transfers than when there is a earmarked grant? When the Storting has said that by 2005, these young people are going to leave the institution, what is it that causes the Council of State to break the aim of the Stortingen by using a framework grant in relation to the responsibilities of the municipality? There is nothing to suggest that municipalities are neither in that area nor in other areas, for example: health and school, where the money is in the framework transfers, shows responsibility. But right here, the Council of State says that the municipalities are likely to show responsibility, when they haven't done so when it was in the form of incentives. What's the difference between that and that?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e384	My starting point is that we have to get fewer earmarked schemes. We have to get more delegation of responsibility to the municipalities, and we have to make sure that they have the opportunity to choose whatever solutions they want. We need to spend less money on bureaucracy and more money on services. All of these individual issues – if we just look at them – can have a good reason, even though I believe that experience now shows that the measure Stortinget invented, which we all thought would be a good measure, has not given the desired effect. We have to start peeling off these arrangements if we're actually going to get decentralised authority and get more room for action to find solutions locally. Now it is that the Progress Party has a different policy in this area – I recognise that. The Progress Party wants to have more earmarked schemes and price financing models at national level. There is disagreement between the Government and the Advance Party. We believe that these types of models must be within the local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e391	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e394	There is no disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Government as to the objective that municipalities should have fewer earmarked schemes. But what this case is about is that it's unworthy that young people with traffic injuries and other disabled people are placed in old people's homes together with older people. I think the municipal minister here has demonstrated that she cannot possibly know the reality of this area, at least she is not willing to do anything about it. Because if the reasoning in relation to removing this earmarked scheme, should have had some team, the government should have given the municipalities money so that the municipalities would actually have had an opportunity to do what had to be done to prevent more ports in sick homes from being damaged by the traffic or the like. Moreover, I do not agree that this scheme has not worked for any municipalities. For some of the municipalities that I have met, this was dear money to do something about this. The question is: how does the Minister of Local Affairs think that the municipalities should have any opportunity to do something about this unworthy situation, with the tight municipal structure that this government has now proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e401	In the 2001 municipal economicproposition, the then municipal minister Sylvia Brustad presented a list of grant schemes to be included during the period 2001-2007. That list included the inclusion or liquidation of this grant for the municipal economy for 2003 and included it in the municipal economic plan. This means that we follow up on what the Workers' Party put up as a line for dealing with inclusion and liquidation, as an important measure. That's what I think a former state council should bring with it. I believe that when measures no longer appear to work, all the money is dear. But it also has a side cost that we should not underestimate, if we believe we should make this society less bureaucratic. So it's the way the municipalities have and are going to be more able to take responsibility for things. I agree that we need a better local economy in the years to come. The government has also said that in the Sem Declaration. Earlier today, I have responded to why it is difficult in 2003. But if it were to mean that we stopped any inclusion of earmarked grants or other things, the entire modernisation process, the whole possibility of freeing resources from bureaucracy, would also disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e410	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e413	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The government has submitted proposals on the municipal economy for 2003. It is a bad suggestion – the municipalities get too little money. The well-being of the whole country will be affected. There will be too little money for hospitals, older people will be the losers. It's very regrettable. In the municipalities the kindergartens are also framed. There will be too little resources to build new kindergartens. The parent payment is too high. That too is unfortunate. When the municipal register is empty, the school grounds will be closed. Children and young people, who are our future, suffer harm. My question to the Solberg Council is therefore: why does the government come up with proposals that weaken the supply of hospitals, in kindergartens and in schools? At the same time, it is clearly important for the Government to give tax reliefs to those who tend the most in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e424	In the autumn of 2002, the whole of the United Kingdom can participate in the 2003 budget and can then find room for the enormous improvements that everyone can afford in the debate on this issue. I wish everyone the best of luck with that. I would like to say that we have prioritised the municipal scheme within the limits we believe so far we have available for 2003. It's a tight arrangement. The expenditure incurred primarily in 2003 that we have not financed has been voted in favour of by the Workers' Party, with the exception of relatively small amounts. There is a limited framework the Workers' Party will have if they're just going to remove the so-called tax relief for the rich, which is SEK 1.5 billion, and use it to implement all the promises. I read in the paper today that approx. 3.6 billion more would be spent, among other things. on housing measures. I think we should all take inwards that this municipal arrangement is a tight scheme – yes. We have been quite honest about that from the Government. This means that some municipalities are going to have problems maintaining the level of activity as it is. So at the same time, we've prioritised the community structure for next year, and we've prioritised giving better growth, but there's a huge increase in expenditure in many areas that we need to find containment for. What is a challenge now is also, among other things. that the municipal economy is even more affected than we saw when we presented the municipal structure, by a pay bill that is higher than that contained, for example. in the revised national budget. A salary settlement with a framework of 6.02 for 2002 is higher than expected and considerably higher than the outcome of negotiations both in the front and in the State sectors. I see that we're going to have problems in the local economy next year. I hope we're not going to be able to make more decisions of the kind we've been making, at a late start-up time, so we're going to have a better economy in 2004-2005, and I want the Workers' Party to be happy to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e433	State Council Solberg is trying to explain that the government is giving too little money to municipalities to care for the elderly, to kindergartens and to education. Yesterday I met the mother of two children who have difficulty reading and writing. They're in Fredrikstad. There the municipality wears down with poor finances, and many look dark on what will happen next year, when the municipalities will get fewer dollars to help with. Does the government council of Solberg have the impression that poor local economy frames children who don't get the help and follow-up they should have while going to school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e438	It seems to me that children do not get a good offer, whether the reason is the economy, the lack of ability to offer a good offer because they have organized themselves incorrectly, or what the reason is. It is not right that municipalities get less money to go with the next year – they get between 2 and 2.5 billion more to go with in the scheme that has been submitted. What's right is that their expenditure is now increasing more than what growth can cover. Expenditure is rising primarily because of pension costs, which have not yet been taken into account, but we have an estimate by the Government at a permanent higher pension level of between DKK 1.5 and 2 billion. In addition to this, compensation has resulted in higher pension costs, costs of more than DKK 1 billion, which must be paid by 2002, but which are also likely to be paid in relation to 2003. And then there's a question of how much KLP's buffer fund needs to be built up over a short period of time. The law indicates that it can be distributed over three years for pension corporations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e443	There will be follow-up questions – Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e447	The municipal sector is the part of the public that each of us meets most often, and it is a completely vital producer of welfare services. The government contributes to the minimal growth of transfers to the local government sector, while we know that these tasks are increasing. Education, health and care services and the social sector are affected, and this means that municipalities have to provide services of lower quality or less than those that are defenceable. The right was offensive in the election campaign last year and promised great improvements in the welfare of the inhabitants. Is this not the case to put the selection behind the light? And isn't this also a challenge for local democracy when it comes to recruiting people-chosen jobs? Right Party Spokespersons of Telemark have stated: Who will be elected to the Board of Directors and to the Board of Directors of Telemark? Does the Council share the concerns of its own party trap in Telemark?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e452	I have the naive hope that our democracy is stronger grounded than that it will only work in the good days and when there is more money to distribute. I believe that democracy is such an important value that if we have not managed to build it into people's spinal reflexes so that democracy exists even when we have to distribute money, or can't distribute more money, but actually have to take heavy hold, we have a relatively large downfall in relation to the solidarity that we stand together in this society. It should worry us much more than exactly the effects of next year's municipal economy, if that's the reality. So the so-called minimum growth is 1 1⁄4 pst. It is similar to that proposed for the income generation in 1999 and 2000. There is half a percentage growth in free income, and it is higher than that proposed in 1999 and 2000. So I think when you look at this in perspective, this isn't a record-breaking solution. This is actually what the norm is. The important new thing is that expenditure is rising explosively in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e457	Morten Lund – for additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e460	In my home municipality, there was a school strike yesterday at two schools where parents and students protest against school closure. The decision to which it is added comes because the municipality's management has read the municipal bill, and they have heard the municipal minister say what the municipality minister says. The hopelessness one feels in Bjugn, feels a very many other places, and that after the election campaign was dominated by promises of a better school. And the Right's promises were greatest. But the everyday life of local politicians is to put down schools, to reduce teacher's density, and then they're not believed when they say that the savings they're forced to do give them poorer schools. But they can account for the pensions and for the salaries for the current year and for the next year. It's right there. So it doesn't match expectations that are made central. What did the Right mean when they promised more school? Did Jan Petersen think there would be less money for school in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e465	Even if you mention another government council, I think the Solberg Council is the right one to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e468	I want to answer that question, related to what the Right promised. The right promised a better quality in school. We work every day to get a better quality in school. A number of proposals have been made for the Storting, and there are a number of proposals for consultation and investigation related to it. Teacher training improves. We're working on the entire quality reform, which will be presented next year. We're working on giving more opportunities for parents to choose an alternative compared to a new law on high school. All of these things are going to make the school better. What we know is that when we with this government come to the end of 2005, the school in Norway is going to be better. In 2003, there is a tight arrangement, yes. And no one is saying that we don't believe that it's difficult in the municipal sector. So let's do that. We know it's difficult in the municipal sector. But it is also true that there are some expenses that have also been incurred by the municipalities themselves through, among other things. (Parliament adopted the resolution) It's a choice the municipal politicians have made, to say that this year is tight, and it's also the year you have to give the highest wage increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e475	President! Can I correct a manifest and significant misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e480	No, it is not this kind of debate we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e485	Something was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e490	The President proposes that the representative take it directly with the Council of State afterwards. We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e495	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Significant price differences in food between Norway and neighbouring countries reduce the survival of Norwegian farmers, and there is no doubt that central Norwegian agricultural products will be subject to significant price pressure in the coming years. If we cannot stabilise or reduce price differences between Norway and neighbouring countries, it will mean a deadline for Norwegian farmers. We know that the space for action is constantly being reduced because imports of agricultural products are increasing, exports are stabilising or decreasing, regulatory export opportunities are being reduced via the WTO and borderline leakage is increasing. How will the Government adopt a strategy to maintain a competitive Norwegian agriculture of some size over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e505	There was a comprehensive question that would take a lot of time to answer, but if I were to give some quick clues, I would say that the agreement we have now concluded, through the agricultural agreement that is being dealt with in Stortinget, is a first important contribution, among other things. to achieve, I think, a necessary and important rational development in milk production. In addition, there are many other areas where this needs to be done. What we can say, and I think that is very important to include, is that we can never get down to prices in Norwegian agricultural production that are in line with our neighbouring countries. It has to do with our geographical location, and it has to do with the level of costs that is especially high for Norway. But we have to make sure that the price differences don't get too big. And then we have to try to develop other competition strategies for what we can be very good at, and that's what we're doing in many areas. We have the prerequisites for producing food of very high quality in Norway. We have assumptions for producing food in an environmentally friendly way. We have the prerequisites to give our animals better living conditions the time they live until they end up in our dining room, etc. I can mention that I had the pleasure of hearing some of the big international food chains now planning their grocery stores for 5-10 years in time, and they say that the kind of modern consumers and citizens Europe will see over the next 5-10 years, not primarily going to focus on price issues, but on the content of food. Is the food safe? Is the food produced environmentally friendly? And not least what we've experienced in the last few years: how have the animals had it in the time they lived and produced? In this context, we have the best conditions for developing competition strategies for Norwegian agriculture that allow us to satisfy the modern consumer, who looks at more than just price.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e514	We are all aware that due to climatic conditions we in Norway will not be able to get far enough down in price, but what was my main point is that price differences do not need to be increased, but stabilized. And when we look at the international chains, which the Council of State was busy with, they're in the process of establishing themselves in Sweden, competition is intensified, competition authorities go through the legislation, and most of them believe that the prices of agricultural products in Sweden will be reduced. And then this gap will increase. We cannot dig trenches around Norway. It would then be completely impossible to achieve something through regulation in that area. That's why we have to have a strategy that doesn't increase these price differences. What does the Government plan for us to have a viable agriculture in the future — which really means something in the relatively short and medium term?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e519	That was probably the same question, but I can add other elements of the answer. First of all, we have to keep busy doing things in a smarter and better way in Norwegian agriculture, which means that these price differences do not increase. So one way to think about it is what the Government has done this spring, to open up to agricultural holding companies across agricultural properties. It allows the use of capital equipment and labour resources in a more flexible way. Now I hope not that all of these rationalization gains that lie within this will only come out at a lower price, but that the farmers too will be able to earn more income. We have to get a reasonable division here. But we don't just have to have an eye on the prices. I had the pleasure of being in one of our leading and best-developed shops in selling alternative products and organic products, in Lier yesterday, and it impressed me very much. They said they had no problem taking out 20-30 pst. in price increases, because it was demonstrable that the products had been produced environmentally friendly. Many consumers want it this way. And it's a competition strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e528	There will be follow-up questions – Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e531	I am among those who believe that food in Norway is cheap. And when the Business Committee was in France last week on the study trip, there was one main impression that was left for me after that trip, and it was that you became increasingly conscious, even in France, of producing quality – the quality that the market was asking for. So my question to the Council of State is this: what does the Council of State do to make it more focused on food quality in the Norwegian debate than on this one-sided discussion about price all the time? What will the Council of State do to give us a much greater focus on that question, and get a little away from the one-sided price debate that we've had lately?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e538	I have behind me a winter and a spring where I have had quite a lot of Christmas because I have tried to go into the debate on these questions, about exactly what Ryan says here, that food is about more than price. It's about quality, about variation, and it's about hearing a story behind the product, how it's been produced, how the living conditions have been in that district and the area it's produced. Some of the experiences we have from France, which is country no. 1 in Europe, we want to transfer to Norway. We know that there's a higher percentage of the population who have the eye for their food choices that the representative here is expressing. So I'm going to promise that I'm still going to be able to have two thoughts in my head at the same time, talk for variation, for competition, for diversity and quality in Norwegian food production, but not so that costs run smoothly, and that price differences become completely unreasonable compared to other countries. I'll try to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e543	We move on to the next main question, from Sigvald Uppebøen Hansen. The President is going to allow another main question, from Bjørn Jacobsen. That means that there will be no follow-up question after Sigvald Uppøen Hansen as time is already out. But a little bit of a round we're going to be at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e548	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, and it's about housing. Housing prices continue to rise. There will be fewer dwellings built. The house bank lacks $3.5 billion, and the government cuts $2 billion compared to the government of Stoltenberg. Now it is important to put housing policy on the agenda. I want to go back a little bit in history, to the Willoch government. It's seen its tracks. We know that the barricades were privatized. Price regulation was lifted, and today's situation shows that there have been very serious problems for young people in the start-up phase, and we also see that a normal wage income does not work at interest and rebates. A lot of new benefits from the deregulation policy that took place in the 1980s, because it simply puts forward those who have been on the market for a while and punishes those who are now outside. In the wake of this, municipalities have stopped feeling responsible for a social housing policy. Isn't the Council of State underestimating what housing construction has to say to society?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e557	I would like to say that I believe many young people before the deregulation in the Willoch era had more difficulty getting housing than they have today. Even though the prices were officially low, there was a lot of money under the table, and they couldn't be borrowed anywhere. There had to be a greater share of equity in order to be able to get into the housing market in the main areas of pressure. I think that the dream that much was so much better before, doesn't apply, even when it comes to young people's access to both loans and housing. It is clear that it is important to focus on being a cheaper ticket for young people than it is today. The most important thing to focus on in terms of housing construction is to reduce the cost of construction itself, because in most markets in Norway, new construction costs are pushing the market price. An important example of this is, for example: the lack of skilled workers in the construction industry. It is the largest area where we lack workers today, which also means that costs are getting higher. The other important thing is to make sure that the instruments we have are targeted precisely at the groups that need them. That's why we're working on getting a better loan facility within the start-up loan scheme for young people who are going to buy their first dwelling, doing more about the Husbank towards a first-home bank on the debt financing side, as well as an improved and simplified loan scheme for those who are disadvantaged and who have long-term housing problems, who are both receiving loans and receiving grants. The government is increasing the various grant areas. I show you, among other things: that more has already been allocated to the housing grant scheme than the current year, and we have increased by 75 million in addition. kr related to the special situation we have in repatriating refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e566	Governments are clear on what kind of profile Right wants at the House Bank. In large parts of the country, the House Bank is entirely responsible for building. In Northern Norway, two out of three housing units are built with mortgages, in Northern and Finnmark four out of five housing units. Now the House Bank is running out of money. The Labour Party believes that housing policy is good district policy. My question is: does the government mean that the housing building in the districts should stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e571	The government does not turn the House Bank into a purely home bank just because there are some markets where it would be difficult to finance the construction of new dwellings, if you had done so. That's why we're not going to do a full reform of that kind. It also means that we have to take into account the districts within those criteria when you start working on rationalizing as to who will get a loan in the future. But at the same time, I want to say that in terms of the starting point of the question, namely the housing problems for young people, it is actually the fact that the biggest housing problems, where we have a social housing problem in this country, are in the larger cities, in the press areas and not in the district of Norway. The truth is that the House Bank there has played a much, much less role than elsewhere. It is primarily the private market that has done the job. What we are concerned about is to ensure that the regulatory plans are implemented more quickly, to ensure that the municipalities cannot charge a number of new development costs to the projects, so that all projects are more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e581	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e584	Today it is the International Environmental Protection Day, and of course I would like to ask questions to the Foreign Minister. In a few months' time, there will be an international environmental summit in Johannesburg. I have previously asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the Norwegian preliminary drafts, but I believe that the Government has now moved on a bit and can say something more specific about what the ambitions of Norway are like. How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs contribute to ensuring that this meeting produces results and will be a highlight for international environmental work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e591	It is right that we have high ambitions for the Johannesburg meeting, which will have a very broad and comprehensive agenda. When Jacobsen asks about how we want to approach the preparations, I would say that it would just be to put a lot of weight into the preparation work. While we are here, there is now a new preparatory work in Indonesia, in which both the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Development and the Secretary of State with this responsibility in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are present. There are therefore ongoing discussions right now on these issues, and the fact that we're so heavily represented reflects the priority we're giving to this meeting as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e598	I thank you for your answer. The Johannesburg conference is about poverty and the environment. Increasing trade in southern countries is an important key to fighting poverty. All over the world, work together to promote systems that secure ethical trade, to prevent trade based on human predatory practices and the environment. What will the Government do to promote ethical trade, and will the Government use the forthcoming UN conference in Johannesburg to work on such arrangements?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e607	The question that Jacobsen is now raising is a question that must partly find its solution outside this conference. There are a number of issues that Stortinget has discussed earlier and that need to be addressed in the day-to-day exercise of foreign policy. As for the content of what comes out of the conference in Indonesia, it assumes that I have a pulse of every minute of what's happening down there. I will therefore not go in and try to suggest what the result of Indonesia would be. But the fact that we put so much weight into the preparations, at least makes Norway do its part of the job. I shall not hide the fact that there are many difficulties associated with the Johannesburg Conference. It's still necessary to fight for things that have already been achieved, but we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e614	At that time, the time for the oral questioning should be well over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e628	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e644	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e660	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e669	In 1998, the process of releasing the Institute of Labour, also known as the AFI, began. The Stoltenberg government later argued that the AFI should be converted into a foundation, but in the state budget for the current year, the government parties and the Progress Party agreed to convert the AFI into a limited liability company. This is the background for the St.prp Government. No 57 for 2001-2002 proposes the conversion into a limited liability company and the sale of shares. In Odelstinget later today it is proposed in Ot.prp. No 73 for 2001-2002 also a priority and waiting wage for employees for three years from the transformation. The Institute for Labour Research is an important and central research institute in the field of working life, and it conducts multi-disciplinary action and user-oriented research. There are now several central labour research institutes and there are no longer good reasons for one of them to have the status of executive. The previous government therefore proposed to choose the form of formation as the form of organisation for the AFI, while the Government now considers that the form of limited liability company is more appropriate. A main point of departure for formation is that it is too static and too poorly steerable, and that a future form of organisation must allow market orientation and dynamics both in terms of selecting work areas and organisational solutions. The form of organisation must allow institutions to determine whether they will participate in alliances or mergers both nationally and internationally. In addition, it may be worth noting that the Riksrevision refers to adverse aspects of the use of the form of formation in state contexts, even if attempts are made to explain this in a comment in the committee setting. Foundation is, whether you like it or not, a very heavy form of organising an enterprise that needs to adapt to changing framework conditions. The members of the Municipal Committee from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party agree with the Government that a limited liability company provides maximum professional and organisational flexibility and clear and tidy ownership and responsibilities. It is worth mentioning in this context that the Ministry, in parallel with the work on changing the form of association for the AFI, has cooperated with the Norwegian Research Council to develop a more comprehensive and forward-looking strategy for the overall research of working life. I would also like to point out, on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, that in our work towards a future ownership structure, we should take care of more robust labour research environments in order to be able to compete in international competition in the field. Long-term, strategic and professional ownership will therefore be desirable in the case of the AFI, and this should not necessarily include the Ministry. The form of organisation must facilitate extensive cooperation, alliances or mergers both nationally and internationally. The Board of Labour Research Institute AS should therefore carefully consider the options for future ownership and implement the sale of shares by the end of 2003. There is also reason to stress that it should also be possible for employees with joint ventures in any form, if desired, and such representatives of the employees themselves have expressed their views in a hearing on the matter. As rapporteur of the case, I also find it necessary, for the sake of order, to clarify that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, in their remark in paragraph 6.4 of the vote, writes, that we assume that the basic allocation of 7 million. kr after five years of being put out for competition by entering a pot which the Norwegian Research Council will distribute between several institutes on application, must be understood as described in more detail in paragraph 6.3 above. This shows that it is only the strategic focus of this basic allocation that is put off after five years. After five years, this will be 40 pst. of the basic allocation. A majority of the Municipal Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party, have, with the double voice of the Chairman, recommended the Stortinget to transform the Institute of Labour from the Administrative Board to the Foundation with effect from 1 July 2002. On behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, on the other hand, I have the pleasure of promoting the minority proposal from the Committee, where the Stortinget agrees to the establishment of AFI AS, as proposed by the Government. This proposal is reproduced on page 5 of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e689	Hans Kristian Hogsnes has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e692	When the Stoltenberg government presented its proposal for a government budget last year, they made suggestions to turn the Institute of Labour into a foundation. This largest Labour Party for when Stortinget deals with the 2002 budget, because we believe that the form of formation is a good organization where the aim is a more freer position. I am aware that this process has been under assessment since 1998. The argument for such exemption is that they want to release research funds, so that they can buy research more from other relevant institutions. A reorganization of a state limited liability company is not an accident for the AFI itself, but the Government's proposal outlines this as a temporary solution. By the end of 2003, the Government will sell up to 100 pst. by the country's axles, and then the institution will be fully privatised. Currently, it may seem that the Government has privatization as its major goal. The fact that it gets followed by the Progress Party should not surprise anyone. Market orientation, privatisation and dynamics are more decisive for the majority than having stable framework conditions. The Labour Party believes that there are strong arguments for choosing the form of formation rather than the form of a limited liability company in the case of AFI. Prerequisites and stable framework conditions are important for the research environment. It should be a public responsibility to research in the workplace. I can't see that the consequences of reducing the public's responsibilities today are assessed or have been the subject of any major debate. The majority’s proposal may have major implications for the societal task that the State should take care of. I also point out that the Statens Arbeitsgemeinschaftsinstitutt, STAMI, which has granted a transfer to a limited liability company, does not see the share company model as an own organisation for the institution. Research activities are not ordinary commercial activities. In that case, there's something completely new. The AFI may also be purchased by the competing institution. Do we then have any guarantee that the research areas that AFI today can handle in the future? It may also have implications for the desire for a wide range of research activities. Any reorganisation of the AFI into a limited liability company would create a precedent for the research institutes. Therefore, this matter should have been discussed much more widely before the Ministry made submissions on the form of a limited liability company. I refer here to the evaluation of the Norwegian Research Council that the Government is currently discussing. In this context, I would recommend to the Committee a plural recommendation where the Institute of Labour is proposed as a foundation with effect from 1 July 2002. I remind you that this is also in line with the wishes and the professional advice of the Committee's hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e709	I can entirely join what Sigvald Uppøen Hansen from the Workers' Party said. I think the main problem with this matter is that we have not received an analysis from the Ministry of Labour and Administration of what kind of knowledge we need about employment in the future. We know that working life is getting tougher. There will be more exclusion, and there will be more waiting wages – to say it like that – as it will also be of this case. Why does this happen? How can we prevent this? And do we have enough knowledge? There is no analysis of how we can achieve this. Nor is there any research policy analysis that is new, or that I have at least managed to find out is established, which says that this is an organisational form that suits this type of research and research foundation. This matter should also have been discussed widely with the Minister of Education and Research, who should have had a word in his work here, so that a proper basis for research policy could have been given for the steps taken by the Government. For SV's part, we believe that the main point behind this is more political in principle, that you want the AS form rather than other forms, and that it has controlled this, as it has done with some of the other castes that the Government and the bulk of the population have participated in the last year, where you adopt AS certification over the table without really knowing how much it costs or what you achieve. I would also like to stress that the Government in its production has referred both to the work of the National Audit Office and to the Mjøs Committee to justify this form of organisation. On the SV side, we've gone in and looked at this, and we're not able to see that there's no coverage in the Riksrevision's work or in the Mjøs Committee to say that they have recommended AS when it comes to this type of research institution, and when it comes to the purpose that the Government itself says they have, namely exemption. What this proposal is all about is also pretty strong signs that research is going to be more shop, and maybe just shop. It would have been nice to hear what the Council of State thinks about it. Does the Council of State mean it's just a shop? Or does he think that there should be something left that should be non-profit, that one needs another ownership and other operating modes to meet the non-profit needs such as: have in order to acquire knowledge in the field of working life? There is also a clear signal from the Government that larger and fewer research units and environments are good, without me having been able to find any good reason in addition to believing that what is big and what is few of it is fine. In that case, it should be justified that some of these small institutions have been engaged in research that is not of a quality good or in the same way as the large ones, or have not been able at all to cooperate with others and have obtained research results that have had the quality we expect. It might be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about it. During the examination of the case, we have tried to challenge the Council of State whether he has any idea of how many research units there should be in this area, without any response. We fear that there is a general political stance here that this will determine the market, both what kind of research we are going to produce and how many research institutions there will be. It is a deep disagreement because we believe that public authorities have a high and heavy responsibility to ensure that there are broad research policy environments with different approaches, and that there is research that is needed and that is not carried out unless the public takes on the responsibility for ensuring and ordering the necessary research in important areas, especially in the workplace where the challenges are going to be enormous in the future, with increasing exclusion, disability, increasing disease pressure and an ever tougher working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e726	There is something unreal about this matter. The Institute of Labour Research is the largest research institute in Norway before the development of work and organisation. The Foundation has renewed its confidence in public activities and in the evaluation of public actions in the field of work – on work environment issues and on workplace exclusion and inclusion processes. The Foundation is involved in research in areas where there is a real increased need for research. This environment, which, like many other valuable research environments, needs tranquillity and sustainable surroundings, is now subject to the Government’s AS certification. This is happening as the Norwegian Research Council is evaluated — an evaluation that points to the need for a closer review of the comprehensive Norwegian institute sector and the division of labour between the institute, business and university. It's hard to get the foundation in addition to the purely political motive. It seems to be an independent point for the sitting government to list the number of institutions and enterprises that can be converted into a limited liability company, and later to sell out state ownership almost anywhere. In this respect, the government seemed to use criticism from the Riksrevision and the Mjøs-Selection's recommendations for ownership, loose from the context in which these two bodies have expressed themselves. A number in the committee are big about this. I record that the Christian People's Party also tacitly accepts this. I notice a distance between former state councillor Jon Lilletun's commitment to strengthening Norwegian research and the turmoil created here in this matter. If the proposal is to be accepted, as it seems, I would ask the Council of State to set up this reorganization so that they too can be co-owners. So I'll finally say that Odelstinget is going to deal with a case today if they add their terms. Even if the Center Party is opposed to the reorganisation that is now taking place, we naturally make a scheme that involves both the right of preference and the waiting wage for those added for whom it should be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e737	I would like to add, in relation to the representative Meltveit Kleppa, that I think there is something unreal about this debate – more than about the matter. I would like to remind you that the AFI is not a freelance unit today. There is a broad consensus in Stortinget that it is desirable to change the organisational form of the AFI and to give it an exemption. The only question we have is: What is an appropriate new organisation for the AFI? Is it to make AFI an orphan, by making it a foundation, or is it to make AFI an entity that has owners who take responsibility for the development of the research institute? My assessment is quite clear that the form of the limited liability company provides the most professional and organisational flexibility, gives clear and tidy ownership and responsibilities, but which primarily gives this research unit good ownership that can contribute to the development of the environment. I want to make it clear that the exemption of the AFI does not mean that I want to disclaim responsibility for or deprioritise research in the field of working life. If the problem was that exemption would mean that the Council of State or the State would waive responsibility, then that would also be an argument against relieving in the form of formation. Adopting that the institution should be released means at the same time accepting that the responsibility for the existence of good research here is another question than how the institution itself should be organised. The Ministry of Labour and Administration has developed and taken responsibility for a comprehensive and forward-looking strategy for the overall research of employment in Norway, and we intend to continue to do so. We have launched a new work-life research programme under the Research Council in January 2002. In addition to initiating long-term strategic research projects and bets, the Programme Committee shall advise the Research Council on the basic appropriations for the core research institutes which receive their funding through the Research Council. I believe it is important to have an overall perspective in this field and not to treat the individual institution that has a random form of connection that is different from that of others. Actions to strengthen the free and independent position of research institutes and promote the strategic tasks of the Research Council are consistent with the overall objectives of the Institute’s policy. I also want to continue to take a long-term and financial responsibility for the AFI in the form of the basic allocation. The basic allocation will be proposed through the 2003 Norwegian Research Council, but the strategic tasks to be performed by the Foundation will be ensured, regardless of the change of form of association currently under consideration. The only question we have today is, what is the appropriate new form of association? It's from the minority in the committee that points to heavy arguments for choosing the form of a limited liability company, so I'm not going to repeat those arguments right now. But I want to clarify once again that research institutes need good owners. The question of AS-certification is not a question of the commercialisation of the institution, it is a question of ensuring that there is someone responsible for the development of the institution. I have noticed that the majority in the committee believes that I am using the Mjøs committee on a false basis in support of the AFI being transformed into AS and not into a foundation. Of course, I am fully aware that the Mjøs Committee referred to the mission activities of higher education institutions – I myself put in the sample. However, the discussion on the form of formation in the Mjøs Committee concerned the form of formation which was an appropriate form of organisation and form of ownership for institutes in general. So an overall sample agreed that this was not a suitable form. It was not a suitable form, among other things. because it means that the institutions are not governed by the employees, it means that the institutions are not governed by the public, it means that the institutions are not governed by the markets, but it means that the institutions are governed by some kind of watch, indeterminately out there that are unable to take responsibility for the long-term development of the environment. And it's not an appropriate way to do business, whether it's business or research. Foundations are very well suited for managing funds and other things with limited tasks, but they are not a good form of company for public activities, research activities or business. This is particularly important, I think, in relation to the AFI, because it has to do with the development further. We have not taken a position on what is an appropriate future ownership structure for the AFI, but we must allow for the development of the labour research communities in Norway that are consistent with the overall research policy priorities and are appropriate for the AFI itself. We believe that a professional board of AFI is the best one to find out what are good solutions there, and do not want to decide what the future ownership structure should be until we have a professional assessment of AFI's relationship with all potential owners, including the possibility of assigning employees as owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e757	When it comes to what the Council of State had to say about an undecided ownership structure, I only have one question in that context. Can the Council of State now say a little about the problem attached to this with the hall of axes? Is it so that the State will sell to the highest bidder, or can the Council of State now confirm that it is to determine the composition of the owner based on research policy considerations? The reason why I ask you that is because I fear that the price of the axes can have a certain significance for the institution's intensification capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e765	I am pleased to take this opportunity to clarify that the sale of shares in the AFI will not take place on the basis of earnings or possible sales gains. The whole purpose of ownership is to exercise ownership that is good for the Institute for Research, and good for the development of the research field in Norway. Any sale of shares to others will be based on what is a good solution for the Institute and its professional development, and what is good for research policy in Norway. We do not aim to use AFI as a source of income for the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e775	It is good that the Council of State stresses that he is conscious of his responsibility in relation to being a good owner, and that he will facilitate a long-term basic vow. But what he is now saying, must well be seen as a confirmation with limited sustainability – it is well until further notice, it is well until he has made his professional judgements, he can let this stand. Because, after this assessment has been made and there are questions about sal, the Council of State cannot deny that business considerations will focus more on the research to be carried out. So to what we're dealing with today. When the Council of State hears the questions that are still being asked by the Storting when it comes to the difference between the corporation and the board of directors, does it agree that the Government would have had a much better basis for its decisions if this matter had been on an extensive hearing in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e782	I must – with respect – report deep disagreement with the representative Meltveit Kleppa on the question of what the AS form involves. It seems that more people in this room believe that there is an automatic link between corporate form and business profile. It is not the case that the form of a limited liability company is suitable only for the purposes of maximising business profit. The form of the limited liability company is a widely applicable type of company for many activities. We've chosen AS as the most appropriate form for the AFI, because it's a good way to make sure that the research institute still has an owner. In this respect, I would like to stress that the AFI actually has an owner today. The State owns AFI 100 pst. The majority of the Committee would like the State to give away the AFI to an independent entity that no one can govern. We want the State to continue to own the AFI, to be responsible for the AFI and to ensure that the AFI is given a development consistent with the overall wishes of the Institute and research. As for the question of sending the case to the hearing, I will go back to the question of why this was not resolved with the Minister of Education and Research. Of course, this has been clarified by the Minister of Education and Research. There is an overall government that is proposing this solution to the Storting. It is fully in line with the general research policy we have in Norway, and it is fully consistent with the line of the Ministry of Education and Research towards other institutes. Therefore, we do not believe that there was a need for a separate, comprehensive consultation round on this particular issue – whether the country should still own the AFI or we should give it away.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e796	I record that the Council of State believes that it is only research institutions that are AS, on which there is some direction. Everything that's foundations, stretching around like that. as the Council of State said, ‘lordless goods’. As far as I know, very many research institutes in Norway – with some exceptions – are organised as foundations. Is the Council of State saying that these research foundations are drifting around like merciless goods, that they are really without purpose and meaning? Or does the Council of State see that this kind of ownership and operation is actually capable of producing useful and good research, which is both non-profit and commercially highly exploitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e803	I just notice that research foundations and other foundations have no owner. ‘Morning goods’, I think, is a term that is usually used for things that have no owner. It is a reality. It is also to a large extent a reality that, in terms of research policy, many times it has been pointed out as a problem that it is difficult to get the desirable development of the institute sector — given that there are no owners. Of course, it is not that very good research is not carried out in research foundations as well. We have very good research foundations professionally seen. However, it is a reality that the societal governance of the research profile and of research developments in relation to these foundations must take place in their entirety through the funding mechanisms of research. It is not possible for the country – which has in many cases been the mother or father of these foundations – to participate in the development of the institute sector by virtue of ownership positions. From this point of view, the Mjøs Committee, and I think it is more appropriate for the research institutes to have owners. Although good things are done in institutions that are menless goods, even better things can be done in institutions that actually have a master or a woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e812	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2943]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e834	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2943]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e842	The cancellation goes to voting in the cases on today's map. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e1008	During the debate, Hans Kristian Hogsnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e1081	Now many people have reported that they have voted incorrectly. That's why we're resuming voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e1096	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 7 May 2002: ‘The size requests the Government as soon as possible and at the latest in the 2003 State Budget, to submit an assessment of proposals for measures and any legislative changes necessary to ensure the safety of live livestock fire at least in line with the establishments handling the animals as slaughtered.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-05.ana.ud326e1116	There is no record.
