ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e30	There is no small matter Stortinget deals with today. It is being tried to achieve more culture, more sport and more research – without any reduction and with no other negative consequences. Of course, a change of the key has consequences. It has consequences for culture. What consequences it has is too early to say, but there is no general strengthening of the cultural budget in what is now proposed. Mr Giske and Mr Djupedal have already distributed the money – much to the voluntary sector, nothing to the institutional culture – and we know that the Progress Party has cut the cultural budget by DKK 1 billion in 2002. It has implications for sport, and of course it has consequences for research, which will no longer have the stable source of income represented by the surplus of tipping. There is no art to agree to grant more money. And it's no surprise that the opposition has gathered to satisfy sports and parts of the cultural sector. What should surprise you is that a former government party is so seductive and so random about important issues. Giske's straw straw in the debate has been so far that right is too much tax relief. Yeah, that's right. However, we do not propose tax reliefs in Document No. Eight proposals. Trond Giske called this story the greatest boost to sport and culture. The Labour Party has been with the government for far too many years. It had to be a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party to see the light. Or is it rather populism that has now taken over, and that there are no longer so strict demands on accountability? In almost 60 years, the system of a third of the tipping surplus has created cultural stability, sport and not least research. Now this is going to change with a pen stroke, without investigating the consequences and without containment. Of course, I agree with Trond Giske and others that there are major shortcomings and needs both within sport and within culture, but there are issues that we have the opportunity to discuss and assess in the context when discussing the budget. The Stoltenberg government announced an overall review of the gaming and lottery activities. The co-operation government, by the state council, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, has announced that this review will come to the harvest. You didn't have patience to wait until then. But then SV has promoted a Document No. Eight proposals on gambling addiction. Then you could wait, because then the Workers' Party and the Advance Party thought it was important to see everything in context and make fact-based decisions in the Stortinget. But when we're going to distribute NOK 2.4 billion and remove the research from the drugs, you don't have time to wait. I think Thorbjørn Jagland has formulated this very well and precisely in a letter that he sent out on Monday 29 April. There he says: ‘The party has invited the Workers’ Party and SV to cooperate in the Stortinget on individual matters. I think the left-hand side should be careful about going on. Some things are not just expenditures that Frp seems to believe. Individual items must be inserted into a whole.’ And on the other hand, ‘One case is therefore not closed until it is fully inserted. The easiest thing to do is to get a majority for expenditure increases. Frp, SV and Ap can handle this in many areas. But is it realistic at all that these parties can agree on an entire state budget so that matters can be implemented? I don't think so." This is what this matter is about. You haven't put it in one whole, and you haven't gotten a common one. So it is argued that the research should not come out worse, because the solution has now been found to move DKK 14 billion from the kerosene fund to the research fund – just to prevent the research from coming out worse! But we have far higher ambitions than that! We have the ambition that research should be at least up to the OECD average by 2005. And then you start by moving 14 billion kroner from the kerosene fund to the research fund, just to prevent research from coming out worse. This is not related. In this case, we should have expected more from the Workers' Party, in particular, who have the tradition of thinking completely and responsibly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e60	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e63	There are a number of things I don't intend to compete with the representative Sanner about having things on. One is cut in the cultural budget. He's much more comfortable with that than I am. That cut right 60 million. kr in the budget envelope after taking over last year's harvest. I will also not compete in this area to agree with the Progress Party on budgetary changes without coverage. There are countless examples from the previous period, such as removing the tax on working capital – which the Right did without any prior preparations, together with the Progress Party, among others. – which cost NOK 1 billion. The defence budget is probably in a special class of NOK 3 billion in additions, which became little after the Right came into government. So you can understand that the Right is concerned about the parties in the Storting that decide on things that have budgetary implications. But we're going to promise the representative, Sanner, that we're going to have full coverage in our budgets – as opposed to the party on the right. I am not going to compete with the representative, Sanner, for a cut in the research budget. As I said earlier here today, cut the right by 200 million. after taking over in the harvest. So with the current government, I understand the representative Sanner's concern about the research budget. On the other hand, we have adopted a research escalation plan up to 2005. So the increase in the research budget that this fund increase is now leading to is just a small part of what we're going to do to achieve that goal. We were in full swing in the state budget for 2002, and I assume that the government will follow it up. I have two questions. One is: why does the representative Sanner think that money from the Research Fund is a less stable source of income for research, based on how many people play Lotto every year? My second question is: why was it responsible to charge the government NOK 1 billion to a weakened budget balance by removing the tax on working capital one late evening in the Storting, while there is no charge of SEK 270 million. kr in the next year's increase to children and young people, sport and culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e78	The distribution of the tipping surplus has represented a stable source of income for culture, sport and research for almost 60 years. What we in particular reproach the Workers' Party for is changing this distribution by using a pen stroke through a Document No. Eight proposals. Government lots have been open to discussion with other batches in order to reduce the damage caused by this proposal. We were open to see this in the context of the lottery announcement that the government has announced will be submitted to the autumn. What the Workers' Party is doing here is changing this distribution with a pen stroke – a system that has created stability for more than 60 years. In fact, even if you put 14 billion dollars into the Research Fund, and that gives you about a return. $800 million. kr, the price increase will decrease the value of that money. That's why it's not right to fully compensate for this, because you have to subtract the increase in the price of this return. What we're also concerned about is starting the process of stepping up to the goal of reaching the average OECD level by spending so much money, just to compensate for the cuts that have been made in research. It is not right, as the representative Giske says, that the cooperation parties were cut off in the 2002 research budget. It increased sharply compared to the 2001 budget. But it is true that there was a slightly weaker growth than that contained in the proposals of the Labour Party Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e87	Does the representative, Mr Sanner, intend to deal with the proposal in which the right is the co-rapporteur?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e90	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e95	The representative, Mr Sanner, then referred to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e98	The minority's comments in this case give the impression that the government parties are associated with increased resources for children's and youth's work in culture and sport. They also claim to be trailers of major bets on sports facilities. But when the proposals of the Progress Party, which will do something concrete in this area, are being discussed in Odelstinget today, they are fully backed up. In this respect, consideration and investigation shall be carried out, and consideration shall be given to the fact that the decision is not related to a budgetary procedure but rather to the outcome of a Document No. Eight proposals. It could almost be suspected that the opposition of the government parties to the proposal is not related to the content, but to the fact that the proposal comes from the Progress Party. The only other possible explanation of the government parties' position in this matter is that they are paralysed or that they do not actually want more money for this field. When I hear the post from the representative Sanner, I feel that this is much lower. If you wanted to do something for sport and culture, you would have had the opportunity to do it through this proposal, and that's the option the majority in Odelstinget now takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e105	One should not overlook the fact that the government parties are a little more patient than the Progress Party. But it's not like the government parties just give the impression of being for sport and for culture. It shows the government parties that they are through the annual budgetary procedures – as opposed to the Progress Party, which cut the cultural budget by over DKK 1 billion only in 2002. We don't think it's too much that when you change a system that has existed and created stability for almost 60 years, you can wait a few months until you have the opportunity to see this in context. This may have a slightly different impact than the Progress Party is able to take inwards when drawing up a Document No. Eight proposals. Of course, this has nothing to do with who has promoted the proposal. We consider all the proposals that are being promoted by all the parties involved, equally seriously. What's left to answer is how to cover this. We heard in Trond Giske's contributions a coherent argument about how he would increase taxes in order to cover up the proposal he has now made. Is there anything the Progress Party agrees with? According to Thorbjørn Jagland, the proposals have not been implemented until they are fully implemented. In other words, the proposals are not implemented until they are also covered in. And it remains to be seen whether Trond Giske's proposal to increase taxes is also supported in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e117	Jan Tore Sanner says that Right has done what they can to reduce the adverse effects of this proposal, and then I wonder: What adverse effects are Sanner most concerned about? Is it that the sports teams can spend a little less time on hard work, tombs and lotteries and a little bit more on sports he's most concerned about? Is it that we can double the plant development around the whole of Norway, so that sports teams can get more than one hour of training a week, as they get in Oslo? Is it that we can get a little more money for cultural buildings, for libraries, for meeting places for culture – the whole cultural life, not as Sanner says, just part of it? Is it that schoolchildren from 6 to 16 will have the opportunity to go to the theater, to experience orchestras, to invite actors and writers into the classroom? Is that what he's most concerned about, or is it that the Free Foundation is now increasing so dramatically that it's going to trigger a lot of child and youth activity all over the country? Which of these adverse effects is the most concerned representative of Sanner? It cannot be the research increase contained in our proposal, 400 million. More to research in the next three years, because, as Mr. Sanner says, there's only a small part of the increase we're still going to do in research. So that can't be what he's worried about. To the seventh and last, we're just left with 270 million. kr for sport and culture, which then blows up the rule of action of the representative, Sanner and Right. Then we can look at the revised national budget, where the Minister of Finance comes to the Chamber here with 5 billion more in tax revenue. This triggers one-tenth of the additional tax revenue with which the Minister of Finance saves its revised national budget. Or to take another picture: When the Right took over in the fall, the table was taken over 1 billion in the tax havens for the 10 pst. the richest in Norway by removing the dividend tax. This represents a quarter of that sum. And I repeat my question: why is it so that 1 billion to the 10 pst. The wealthiest is entirely responsible, within a proper economic policy, while a quarter of the amount of preventive work, for health work, for voluntary activity throughout Norway is irresponsible? I don't understand that at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e129	The difference is that here Trond Giske and the Labour Party find solutions between budgetary procedures. If the Workers' Party had come to the budgetary procedure and proposed more to culture, more to sport, more to research, no one would have had any problems with it, because we still have confidence that the Workers' Party is in line with the rules of action. But here you will find a solution between the budgetary procedures and before the lottery announcement announced by the Government is due. And if it is that this proposal is as intelligent as Giske makes it sound like, what is it then that the Workers' Party did not implement this when they put in government, that Giske did not take this initiative when he himself was the Council of State? No, it's probably related to getting out of government offices now, and populism being allowed to rule. For Giske it sounds like the purest wizard who pulls one white bird out of his hat after another – the research will get more, the sport will get more, the culture will get more, and who will get less? It is not that it is possible to grant more for all good purposes without taking it from any place. But what we heard in the post was that Giske would take it from the tax reliefs, or he would raise the taxes for ordinary people, while of course the Progress Party would not be in such a galley. That's why the Labour Party's leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, has said that the matter is not settled until it's inserted into a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e136	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e139	Actually, I would have liked to have seen that the debate between the representatives Giske and Sanner had been allowed to continue for a while, because there are many good arguments that the Progress Party has tried to promote in this Chamber earlier. We therefore hope that we can be allowed to promote Document No. 8 proposals at a later stage, as well, which might also be finding that it's nice to join. I'll try, even if it's a little difficult, to confront the Right with the statements they make, but for me it's very important to clarify that we've got a majority for a Document No. Eight proposals. It's not like Inge Wohnning said in the morning meeting, that this is a proposal that has somehow come up. We've heard here before that the first time this was up for treatment was in 1986. Then right-handedly threatened with cabinet questions. The progressing party girled out that time. We also promoted the same proposal when we discussed the voluntary notification in the Grand Duchy three years ago, so this proposal was promoted in May 2001. It is strange that the right has not responded earlier to the proposal, when it has been before the Storting for such a long time. The point is that here the Progress Party has been given a majority and provided substantial funding for sport and culture for children and young people. At the same time, we have received additional research funding. One would think that the whole hall welcomed such a result, even though it came between two budget rounds, of which the Right is so concerned. Still we see that there are many forces working against this proposal. In the meantime, we've seen that it's got a lot of resistance from the press, from the research community and, in fact, from the culture itself. I suspect some of the political parties have driven that campaign against this proposal, without me going any closer to it. But we also see today that the money allocated by this proposal is small in the broad sense, given the lack of both sport and culture on the voluntary side. One of the strongest arguments I've ever had to promote this proposal is the development we've seen. When the representative, Sanner, points to stability over 60 years, it is at least that the state has more and more gone into and taken over what has been the market for voluntary teams and organisations, in order to raise its own funds. The state is now running all kinds of games, so that it is completely impossible for a team or sports organisation to go into the local environment and collect funds through hard work. Because now it's actually like when we get out of the buyer's premises, we've been playing our money on the state games, lotto, tipping, etc., and then it's not that easy for the local team to run hard to collect money outside of the cooperative team. In this sense, it is quite reasonable and right that volunteers now receive back a large proportion of the funds that the State has in a way deprived them of in recent years. What I am also very concerned about – and there was actually the Storting together when we dealt with the volunteering message – is that there were different cultural activities that we agreed on should be strengthened. We are now given the opportunity to do so by giving the individual large additional appropriations. So finally, the strange argument that the Right has in relation to this proposal. The representative, Sanner, is very concerned that there will be individual cases – in this case a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party to which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party belong. But is it the case that the same arguments are to be used in all contexts? We could have drawn up a whole series of individual cases where the Progress Party has joined the Right and where the Right has joined the Progress Party – between the budgetary procedures. It cannot be that we should have all the major political debates only in budgetary procedure. If that's the way it is, the Storting gets pretty amputated. I also react a little when the representative Sanner comes up and says that the right has used a contact network to try to reduce the damage caused by the proposal. Who in the world is what the Right has made contact with? At least there can be no contact with the proposers, because they have had no contact with the Right in this matter. I think that's a little weird. So to another thing in relation to the sudden use of so much money between budgetary procedures. The representative Giske gave an example. For me, it is interesting to see that the government thinks it is right to grant half a billion extras now in revised form because asylum immigration has gone overboard. In such cases, it's okay to spend several hundred million dollars. But when we come up with proposals that go towards volunteering and sport, it is strictly forbidden. That's weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e160	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e163	First, I would like to welcome the representative Per Sandberg back into the cultural policy process. There is reason to commend the Progress Party on this matter, for they have at least been consistent. This has been their commitment for a long time, and they have also made proposals for changing the key already in connection with the sports announcement more than a year ago. It's much harder, I think, to understand how a party like the Workers' Party has completely changed its course in relation to this. Document No Eight proposals are now once the tools of the opposition, so we need to understand that. What I'm going to ask you a little bit about, and I'm going to get a little bit more detailed or interpreted, is what's in these sentences about what the money is going to do in the cultural field. It says, among other things: at 30 pst. shall contribute to investments in local/regional cultural meeting places. Trond Giske went relatively far in going in earlier today to, for example. libraries and art museums could get from these funds. I remember that in his time in the Culture Committee, Per Sandberg was an avid champion of Brygga in Levanger and the Falstad Centre, which are also cultural meeting places. Does the representative Sandberg agree with Trond Giske in his interpretation of this? The second is what the cultural school bag in this context really means; 40 pst. the means are intended to be channelled through it. This means that children and young people will share in cultural experiences, including: through various institutions. Now we know that the Progress Party is basically quite negative to many of the cultural institutions. Now what? Let's do an example. When the new opera in Bjørvika is finished, you will probably make a tailor - made program for school classes and invite them. Could these means, which now come through this proposal and through the cultural school bag, be used for school classes that will visit the Norwegian Opera and get great cultural experiences through this visit?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e176	I have to say that there were some major challenges I got here. In connection with this proposal, we have had negotiations. And it's clear that the Progress Party has given a little, especially in relation to the cultural school bag. As Lånke quite correctly points out, this is not something that the Progress Party has been positive in the past. But now we see at least that we have expanded the cultural school bag considerably in terms of diversity, in relation to the way it has been in the past. As the representative Gieske pointed out in his speech earlier today, it is clear that it is up to the individual school, the individual class — in terms of the individual activity of the individual school — who will use the means available here, whether they choose to visit the museum buildings of Levanger, or whether they choose to travel to listen to the opera. I'm not going to interfere in that. The point is that the funds have fallen to the level they should be, in the hands of the users, so that they can determine. Then we're not going to sit here on the Stortinget and decide how to use these funds. Neither should the government. One of the things that is so important about this particular proposal is that one gets to channel larger parts of the cultural resources to the users, instead of being politically directed. It is also my response to the representative, Mr Sanner, who combines the ordinary cultural budget with the extra resources that you are now bringing here. These means are embedded, and to put it correctly, we are trying to keep the politicians' fingers out of the way in this area. I think we have done so to a great extent. It is simply the users who will be allowed to decide how to use this money.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e185	It is a good rule that when Herod and Pilate find each other, we must follow closely what is going on. Listening to Mr Sandberg's reasons for what is in the majority position of the Committee, it could not be avoided that the justification is almost the opposite of that put forward by the Workers' Party. The only thing that's common is the conclusion. The angle of incidence and the justification are widely different. For Sandberg, this is a question of the relationship between the state's operation of lotteries and lottery revenue versus the operation of volunteers in the same way. They did not hear a word about that in Mr. Giske's posts, and I'll assume that he's relatively little worried about the state doing all the lottery activities in this country. What's amazing in this case is that these three parties have found each other at one point, namely, when it comes to increasing the government's expenditure. They probably each have their own invasion – at least you can hope that when that time comes, they will have their own invasion – but there is no reason to believe that this invasion will bring together any majority of the same parties that make up the majority here. There is no reason to criticise the Progress Party for promoting this Document No. 8 proposals, because that's right, as Sandberg says, that this position has always had the Progress Party. But what's a little interesting to ask about Sandberg is whether he doesn't see that it can be a little difficult for the outsider to fully understand the logic of the Progress Party, when, in the ordinary budgetary procedure, we cut drastically on the cultural budget, and we saw in this document no. The 8 proposal will increase the same budget as you cut it by approx. 400 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e196	The only logical thing I can answer the representative's salary is that being outside and coming from the Right leads to the kind of judgement that the pay comes with here. Of course, I see a connection between lottery activities and the state and the private sector. That was one of the reasons why I thought the volunteers legally claimed a greater share of the profits. That's what I said, and I stand by that. I can't believe that wages have tried in any way to get into what's in the proposal, because here the ordinary cultural budget is not at all touched. If the Minister of Culture now wants to cut the cultural budget in the 2003 budget, she will have to do so, but it is not because this proposal is being adopted, for the funds that come here, as increased grants to voluntary teams and organisations in sport, are new and fresh funds. The only increase in the cost of pay and the government will be the ones going on research. But we will solve this immediately by moving funds from the oil fund into the Research Fund. That's how we've solved it. And then the Right and Inge pay and all the other suckers and complain that they don't get the gambling they want in their budget for 2003. But it is one of the premises of being a magnificent representative to be able to direct development and not put everything in the hands of the government, which Inge Wohnning now suddenly wants, after the Right has entered the government. If we go back a little bit – one – two years ago, when the Right is in opposition – we will find a series of suggestions where the Right uses the exact same arguments that I'm using now in order to gain play, that it should belong in the Stortinget and not in the Government. But I recommend wages to read through the proposal, and he'll see that the ordinary cultural budget is separate from what's happening now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e205	The representative Sandberg probably misunderstood my question. I have read the proposal and know very well that the proposal says what Sandberg referred to. My question didn't go into it. My question was how the Progress Party itself gets its internal accounts to go up when the ordinary budgetary procedure proposes drastic cuts in the cultural budget, and a few months later it was proposed to increase the same cultural budget by a few hundred million dollars. That's what for outsiders might be a little bit difficult to get into jumps. With regard to the question of the state versus volunteers as organisers of lottery activities, I thought the representative Sandberg was aware – at least it says in the committee setting – that the previous government started a review of the overall picture. And the current government has said that it will bring that review to the harvest. Then both Trond Giske, Per Sandberg and everyone else would have had ample opportunity to discuss all the principal aspects of the state lottery activities. But you didn't have time to wait for that. You had to take this piece and put it in place, completely independent of such an assessment of the whole. That's what I'm a little surprised at, that neither the representative Giske nor the representative Sandberg realize that there are quite a lot of people who think this is a somewhat peculiar kind of dealing with so far as in principle highlighted questions like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e216	The representative on the pay side says that Per Sandberg refers to what is in the proposal. Yes, of course, I assume that what is in the proposal will be followed up by the Government. But of course, I'm a little suspicious if the government with its apparatus is now going to launch a campaign against implementing what is in the proposal. That's what I'm right to fear, I hear. It's true that it's announced a review. But if such a review were to be carried out, it would have to be taken independently of the ordinary budgetary procedures. Well, I guess your pay must agree with that. We couldn't have taken it with the budget. Then we had the exact same result – if the Storting had joined it. It has something to do with patience. It is possible that the Progress Party has been impatient in this matter, as we took part in the same proposal in 1986. It's been 16 years. I think that patience is far enough when we have waited so long. If wages do not differ in the ordinary budgetary procedure of the Progress Party in the field of culture, he can go back in the last four to five years, he will see clearly that we have protected voluntary teams and organisations in the field of sport – all the time. That we have cut in solid appropriations for opera and institutions is absolutely right. However, it does not relate to the funds we allocate here, so it will be an ordinary budgetary procedure for the 2003 cultural budget. There comes the Progress Party again to cut 1 billion kroner – if that was the answer No pay wanted. In the case of voluntary teams, organisations, children and young people, the Progress Party has not cut anything in its alternative budget in recent years. That's the difference between Inge Wohnung must try to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e227	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e231	In the election campaign we promised in SV to give priority to children and young people. We promised that we would use our forces on Stortinget to fight for children and young people's growth conditions, and that is exactly what we are doing in this matter. Culture, sport and research are all at the heart of SV, and we also show that in the general budgetary procedure. That it turns out to be the majority of the size of that raising these changes to the key leads to in all of these areas, we are so overcrowded with. A prerequisite for our agreement to the bill on changing the key was an absolute assurance of the research. It has been thoroughly illuminated earlier today, and I will not spend any more time on this, but I will state that we from SV so far are comfortable with the solution and the priorities it has set. When we talk about research, our goal is of course to get up to OECD level as soon as possible. The impact of this proposal is primarily a more exciting and challenging everyday life for the most young people. The device is also such that it is primarily Freedom Norway at the local level that will have a new working day. Just at the local level, we know from experience that the funds are used in a good, sensible and responsible way. The part that goes to sport also has the same facilities: low-threshold services at local level and higher priorities for young people who have not been organised in the past. For us in SV, priority for outdoor purposes is also very important. For example, 7 pst. by the facilities for sport go to outdoor facilities such as nature trails, walkways, the rehabilitation of tourist cabins, etc. That means roughly a double from today's level, which is 20 million. NOK, up to approx. Forty million. kr. In addition, the testing scheme with grants for open-air activities for children and young people through the FRIFO Joint Aviation Organisation shall be made permanent and strengthened. For 2002, it is set at 1.9 million. kr to this scheme. If one were to realise the desire of the outdoor community to invest in outdoor activities in kindergarten, school and school leisure schemes, plus strengthening the place of outdoor life in preventive and, in particular, health promotion work — perhaps our biggest challenge in the future — the National Association of Outdoor Councils estimates the need to be about. 50 million. kr. The use of funds shall not be difficult. Another important point for us with regard to the arenas for both sport and culture is that it is agreed that all installations that receive State aid commit themselves to the free use of youth, possibly with very low rentals. What still delights me most, and to which I have the greatest hopes, is the possibility of implementing the cultural school bag for young people in all municipalities. The experience of the states that have given priority to this in their own right is very good. The keyword here is the chance to participate in activities and training in different cultural areas. There are different arenas and cultural meeting places for young practitioners, it's the meeting with professional artists, and it's the meeting with the cultural heritage. Not only does it mean a lot to kids who thus gain access to culture, impressions and experiences they would not otherwise have access to, but it is a real vitamin injection also to those who create the cultural expressions the students use – it is local amateurs, semi-professional groups or purely professional ensembles, and locally often cooperation across such boundaries. The ringing effects of this grip on cultural activity around it is difficult to think about right now, but my hopes are great, not least in the light of the response I have received from local cultural workers after the setting became known. Expectation, joy and optimism characterize the cultural environments today. What about the threat of «cutting» the cultural budget at the bottom? Should there be any reason for that? In the current economic situation in Norway, it must be difficult to prioritize tax relief at the expense of culture and still call itself a cultural party. We can do little with the priorities of other parties in SV, but I can say as much as it should not be on SV to keep the appropriations in the cultural budget up, and would like to increase them further. The fight for several kroner for the cultural budget is nothing new. SV prioritises culture high, which we make visible in our primary drafts in budgetary context. Most of us would like to refer to Norway as a cultural nation, but how high do we prioritise culture in budgetary terms? It's not like we in Norway spend a lot of money on culture. The aim of SV is to ensure that the allocations for cultural purposes should initially be approx. 1 pst. by the expenditure side of the national budget – a sober and precise goal, you ask me! Today we are on approx. 0.6 pst. Even with the additions we get when changing the key, there is still a good billion missing. Look at Spain: Our committee has been traveling to Spain — a country that we may not first compare with, but which is not so far away, and a country that may have to make tougher priorities than the one we have to do in oily Norway. Then we're talking about the priority of culture to the extent that we can only dream about. Spain uses 3-4 pst. of its national budget for cultural purposes, i.e. Relatively, five times more than what we do in Norway. The change in the key that will now take place is a real handshake for children and young people and for local fires that use all their power in local sports and cultural life. I'm looking forward to the continuation, until in a few years we might be able to sum up the impact of the priorities we're doing now. So maybe just these grips will be the best reason for a further addition for those purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e262	I have to say that I am becoming more and more despondent on behalf of the research after hearing the debate here today. I see that the parties that are in favour of this proposal do not agree at all on the impact. As I have understood the Socialist Left Party, they will affect the tax administrations. Here I would like to remind the Socialist Left that the people in the last election have given a clear message about taxes. And is it that the Socialist Left will now send an interest rate increase to the families? Because that's what's going to happen when you have the same approach to politics that Ole Brumm has to milk and honey.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e269	As far as the containment of research is concerned, the proposal states how it is intended to be supplemented by the oil fund of the Research Fund. With regard to this, with budget cuts, I would say that if Rafiq read our budget notes last harvest, she would see that on our cultural budget we had an increase that is totally against what is the total amount already now before we transfer money and take out the research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e276	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e279	Odelstingen will today take a decision that will reap approval in wide circles. A majority proposal to change the so-called key to divide the profits of Norwegian Tipping’s gambling portfolio into the areas of sport and culture for children and young people after a transitional period. It could lead to very positive ring-effects, I think, for those areas that benefit from this. It is therefore also positive that these two areas of sport and culture should be given increased resources. Individually, these areas represent important self-esteem, while having a clear preventive effect on many of the problems we face today in our society. I think of the increase in violence, drug abuse, racism, etc. That is why the Christian People's Party is very much in favour of proposing measures that contribute to the strengthening of both sport, other child and youth activities under the direction of non-governmental organisations, outdoor life and other targeted actions in the cultural sector. However, when we do not find today to be able to support the proposed proposal as it exists, it has nothing to do with our position on the objectives to be met, on the contrary. What I have just said was supposed to substantiate it. On the other hand, it has something to do with the procedure you have chosen, because this has gone very fast. A simple proposal for a document, even dealt with as a legal act in Odelstinget, makes decisions of a very large budgetary nature and does not have all the implications for the budget as a whole. A pen stroke thus removes a scheme that has contributed significantly to the funding of research in Norway in the past. In order to compensate for this, that majority would make a transfer of funds, that is. the decision to grant an additional DKK 14 billion to the Research Fund to increase the rate of return equivalent to what is to be eliminated by the Bill. Verbally, you say that you want to, too. ‘Strengthen Norway’s overall research effort and implement the stepping-up plan adopted in the Stortinget’. Yes, only time will show what the consequences of such a procedure will be. What can be said is that there are some people here who have been very busy, as you do not take the time to wait to investigate the matter. What gives the most reason for surprise is that the Workers' Party, which has strong government experience, has not taken the time to wait for a review initiated by their own government. I would like to remind the representatives of the Workers' Party of what the party's own Minister of Culture Ellen Horn said from this pulpit a year and a half ago. In the debate on the Sports Communication, the Council of State answered my own questions as to whether this could be relevant, among other things. to consider taking a grip that the Progress Party also proposed at the time to ensure, among other things, increased resources. the development of community sports facilities. From Councillor Horn's reply I quote the following: ‘I have repeatedly underlined the positive impact of sport on society. However, I consider today's level of profits for sporting purposes to be satisfactory. Such a proposal as that of the Progress Party would have to be seen in the context of the totality of the State budget. The proposal also proposes to remove the funds from research, which is a significant and important area of activity for the Government. After all, there is no solution to the dimension from which these means of research are to be drawn. I have therefore not been able to follow the Party of Advancement." So far, Councillor Ellen Horn. The current government has said, as has been stated in the past, that the work of the Stoltenberg government started to go through the gaming and lottery areas, is to be continued. The result is intended to be a comprehensive account of the Stortinget in the autumn of 2002. The Minister of Culture has also confirmed that the tap key and the revenue potential of non-governmental organisations will be part of this review. It is therefore very strange that the Workers' Party does not take the time to wait for its own investigation and thus obtain the necessary quality assurance. State Council Ellen Horn's reply to me was wise. She underlined both the importance of the overall budget and the need to find a solution when it comes to research. This jumps the Workers' Party today lightly. Today, the reform is adopted. Although the purposes are good, it is hardly certain that the goal is devoted to the means, which you later believe. One thing I hope we can agree on: that we, who want to fight for better conditions for Norwegian cultural life, can stand together to support those areas of culture that will not be welcomed by this reform. It is not least natural to think of the commitments the Storting has already adopted, as, among other things. the phase-out plan for the ABM sector. I can also mention strengthening the situation of the free artist groups, the effort on opera and ballet, the expansion of the orchestras, as some of the many areas where there are major challenges. The question in the future therefore needs to be: how can this reform contribute to a holistic and global boost for Norwegian cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e316	In fact, we had no solution to how we were going to get the Research Fund up to stand when Ellen Horn was the State Council. Now we've found a solution, and that's what's new. I understand very well that the representative Lånker is having a difficult time today. Nobody talks warmer – and I say ‘speaker’ warmer – about non-governmental organisations than the Christian People's Party. No one knows more about bazaars and collections than the Christian People's Party, and about how worn-out people can be by selling lot and working with the tomb, and then I actually thought that even the Christian People's Party could participate in this proposal once we have found a solution. I'm recording that the Christian People's Party has a representative on football matches. The Prime Minister is an avid participant in the break and throws glory over the special football team in Molde, where they have received a great stadium, funded by private capital. Wouldn't it be better for the sport and culture of the Christian People's Party now be able to participate with the proposers and the Workers' Party to really bet on leisure activities that will mean preventive work for children and young people, of which, of course, Ola T. Loans have been so concerned? Wouldn't it be better if he were allowed to participate in this decision that really means something concrete, and not just words?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e325	Words and no action, do something concrete, says the representative Fallen. Yes, that's exactly what the Christian People's Party has been concerned about all along, not least in terms of voluntary organizations, children and young people. I'm just referring to the last budgetary procedure, where we raised 100 million. kr more to non-governmental organisations. We have also implemented a limited exemption from gifts to non-governmental organisations. We're still working on it. We have several specific points to make in terms of action in this area, so that's not the problem. The problem is that when we implement reforms, comprehensive proposals with major budgetary implications are adopted – yes, we want us to know what we are doing. Quality assurance is an important key in all proceedings, and in this case I think it has been very quick. You've been busy. There has been a rather intense lobbying by some who are interested in getting more resources, understandably in and separately. But it is less understandable that a party such as the Workers' Party, with such long government experience, should go on the stick so as to reach the degrees of lobbyists' action that they are involved in an easy Document No. Eight proposals and raises DKK 14 billion from the petroleum fund and into the Research Fund without considering the impact on the rest of the budget. It's a cross of thought, and here lies the ground. If we had waited a little while longer, we could have done the same thing, but we could have been allowed to think a little bit about this, so that we would know that we had avoided serious consequences, which could now be the result of this. I know all this with bazaars and tombolas and collections, and I join the representative Fallet's description here of the Christian People's Party. This is what we're concerned about. We have also been involved in volunteering, which was just part of this and paid for some of it. We will continue to work for more concrete actions for both voluntary and non-governmental organisations as well as for sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e334	I believe that Mr Lånke's speech actually gave full support to the proposal. I'm not going to link that when we see that the majority of the committee, all except the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, will take a new step to increase public spending on culture, sport and research. So here's the Christian People's Party outside of the desire for such a lifting in the notes. In addition, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right, promotes a proposal not to endorse our proposal. If it had been so that the Christian People's Party had thoughts of perhaps doing this by themselves, because they supported it, but would have had a little longer time on it, wouldn't it be natural if the representative Loan and the Christian People's Party had at least proposed to add the proposal to the protocol, in which case to come back later? But all the other things in the vote indicate that the Christian People's Party is against the whole proposal and the purpose of the proposal. I would like to ask the representative Loan: if it were the case that the Christian People's Party had some more time on it, how would the Christian People's Party have done that? What would the timeframe of the Christian People's Party have been for implementation? And how much money would the Christian People's Party have transferred for the same purposes if they had had had enough time to evaluate the kind of reorganisation that we are now doing in relation to the profits of Norsk Tipping?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e341	The representative Sandberg said that I supported the proposal in my post. I said I support the intention. I support the objective that one wants to achieve by providing more money from the tipping surplus for sport and culture, so far the representative Sandberg is right. We're going to say that later, too, so that's not something controversial. I think I have also explained why we cannot support the proposal. Now the discussion is whether to attach a proposal protocol or reject it. It's a discussion of taste and pleasure, I think, in such contexts. It depends a little on the nature of the proposal. It doesn't have to have anything to do with the substance of the proposal itself in terms of purpose, like here. I think it's more like we're just not ripe to take our position now. We have to do that later. That's why I can't go into the details of a hypothetical situation, as it might be, but now it's not going to be relevant. I hope we would have done it, if we had figured this out and found out a way to do it. It shouldn't take more than six months. We have given the Committee – those who are in it – full opportunity to wait. We submitted our comments on the adjustment very early, where we signaled and pointed out that there were investigations, started by the government of Stoltenberg and continued by our government, and that we wanted to wait for these. It has to do with cleanliness. The fact that a government started something, and then parties in Stortinget would agree to a proposal that would only do so before the results of the investigation, would not be a serious procedure. This becomes too messy, and therefore could not be part of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e349	It's a matter of hearing this concern about a decision without a good enough prior investigation, from a representative whose party was involved and decided to introduce NOK 3 billion to cash support, which was not at all investigated – that is, the timing of the sum we're talking about in relation to the 2003 impact. It may sometimes be a good idea to do more investigation if you, for example: is uncertain about the device for the use of cultural or sports equipment, or about the effects of how this money will be spent. Now it's not so hard to understand how a doubling of the facilities for football bins, swimming pools and various opportunities for children and young people to do sports is taking off. It turns out that more people get to do sports, it gets cheaper to use the halls, and there are opportunities to get more than one training session a week, some of which are eaten off. It is not so difficult to understand either how the cultural school bag will flourish with these extra means, or the Free Fund scheme, or the library and cultural meeting places, or the operation of sports. Neither are the attacks from the Christian People's Party. Had it been where they had come, we should perhaps have been discussing that we should have investigated. The attacks are going to be these 270 million. kr blows the budget into fillet bits. That's where they come from. And we know that the government has already promised tax credits in the billions class, perhaps up to NOK 9-10 billion in next year's budget. After all, the Minister of Culture is concerned that so much is tied up, not least by her own party, next year's government budget in the area of tax havens. So we're going to give it a three-time pay-off in terms of the 2003 impact on sport and culture. My question to the representative Lånke is: could he be involved in taking only 29/30 in tax laws, and then spend 1/30 on sports and culture? Then we would have saved the budget balance. Or does he agree with the Minister of Culture, who believes that the rest of the cultural budget may have to pay some of this, as she said to the Official Journal of Bergen in April?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e358	The representative Trond Giske comes with a comparison that seems rather sought in this context: the proposal to introduce cash support, which was cost-calculated at approx. Three billion kroner, without it being completely fixed. I remember very well the discussion and the claims that the Workers' Party ran on at least for months and perhaps years against the Christian People's Party. We had this on the program for over ten years and worked on it, and we had also investigated it. The difference is that there is a proposal here that everyone has in mind and agrees with, and that one could have taken the time to wait for an investigation. I don't have any problems listening to and agreeing to all of the positive representatives Trond Giske says about what this is about: cultural school bags, meeting places, halls and arenas. It sounds great, and it's clear that we're going to have to. But for me it is a cross of thought that in Odelstinget a decision can be made with such a large and far-reaching impact on the budget, in the 15 billion kr-class. The budgets usually tend to be dealt with in Stortinget following previous government proposals. Here you jump over everything else you do when you decide something that has such a big impact on the budget. That's where I don't understand the Working Party, that they've suddenly come to realize that it can go this very easy way. The discussion of tax havens waved back and forth here. I do not participate in it, because it is in the same way a budgetary matter. We shall have to wait for the discussion to be presented in the context of the budget. I believe that we should now stand together to fight to get more money into the cultural budget overall – all the organisations and institutions that need it. We're going to stick together on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e369	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e372	I want to start my post by sending a congratulations to Kultur-Noreg – it is simply the winner today when we deal with Document No. The 8th presentation from the Progress Party on changing the key. The decision that Odelstinget will take tonight is not least a solid handshake to the thousands of thousands of volunteers before sport and the rest of cultural life who spend thousands of hours of hard work for children and young people around the whole country. So, congratulations on the day! Many of us, including in this assembly, have, as a member or trustee, taken part in activities to contribute to a slumped club or organisational fund. Many people are aware that when we talk about the cake tub with cakes that we ourselves have baked, the tomb that led often buys most lotes, collections, driving weekends as a professional day, and many other creative measures to keep the wheels going. Many have also experienced how vulnerable many teams and organisations are, and how dependent they often are on some engaged fires. And when these fires just give up, they can't do any more and leave the organization, the organisation and the apparatus often collapse. Voluntary work should be encouraged and strengthened because voluntary organisations form an important part of our democratic tradition. Voluntary efforts also contribute to meeting important needs in society and the development of social communities that are crucial to creating a good local environment. The voluntary associations lack properties such as welfare and business and are important for social solidarity. It has a self-value that goes beyond the activity itself, for example. in the case of the development of social communities. Norway has been, is and will be a top sports nation within many sports fields. During the last OL, Norway was on top of both medals and points. We were quite proud of that! But in my opinion, there's a clear connection between width and top. Young, promising talent must have the ideal to stretch after. And I dare say that after the winter Olympics we got a flowering of potential ski shooting as a result of the success profiles of Ole Einar Bjørndalen and Liv Grete Skelbreidd Poiree. One as formidable strengthening of sport as the plural here adds, I think it would seem like a vitamin injection into sports. And it's a vitamin injection they both need and fortify. The aim must also be to deploy and other resource people — a total of more than 700000 volunteers participating in sport — can use time, energy and energy for activities for children and young people and can avoid ‘burning out’ because of the pressure to get hurt money into the club’s safe. The centre party launched proposals to change the key distribution during the election campaign last year. We want a strengthening of the rights of culture of 1 billion dollars during the ageing period. Mainly, we want the initiative to go to voluntary cultural work and other local and regional cultural activities. We want activities based on voluntary efforts, such as amateur theatre, corps, festivals and so on, to be given higher priority. Children’s and youth culture should, according to the opinion of the Centre Party, be given priority in all types of activities. That is why I would like to express great pleasure at the decision we are making today. I would also like to remind you that the then Minister of Culture Lahnstein took the initiative for the new voluntary organisation scheme, Frifond, in the additional message for the voluntary announcement by the government of Jagland. The need for investment and maintenance of local and regional cultural meeting places is high. The centre party is satisfied that it will also come within this area a lift. The base ball may be our most important cultural sphere, but not for everyone. I want to pay tribute to the municipalities and county councils that have established their own projects that integrate cultural dissemination more strongly into school life for students. The centre party believes it is important to strengthen the existing instrumentation, especially in relation to these cultural and music spheres. But, of course, it depends on the municipalities having financial freedom of action. In the submitted municipal bill, the municipal minister announces more urgent times for the municipalities, and admits that this could lead to a reduction in service provision. It does not specifically promise good for well-being in general, nor for cultural and musical spheres in particular. In 1995, an action plan for strengthening the aesthetic disciplines and the cultural dimension of the basic sphere was ready – perhaps better known as the ‘Broen and the Blue Horse’. Enthusiasm was great, and around the whole country, many got ready to face the challenge of strengthening cultural services. Missing economies stop many good plans, for example. the teacher who wanted to strengthen cultural competence, but thinks the temporary budget stop the plans. Excursions were cancelled - the funds did not go for the transport of elephants to the museum, cinema and the like.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e395	It is always the privilege of the opposition parties to be able to overrule responsible lots of appropriations for good ends. The farther away from power, the simpler this exercise is, the simpler. And we understand that this is tempting. There is a relatively new situation in Norway that the critical attitude to such an oversupply policy is no longer seen to be equally strong. Populist parties have winds. It's true to say no performance to turn the cloak after the wind and give people what they want, without making the back of the medal visible. What's new and eye-catching in this case is that we've got a new phenomenon: majority populism. Here, a majority of Odelstinget gathers on a decision with significant budgetary implications, without doing so in budgetary proceedings, without having a joint impact on the expenditure applications it incurs, even without any investigation. The best person who has described this is the head of the Workers' Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, in a newspaper post in the Newspaper on 3 May, where he among other things. writes: ‘It is no good to create a majority for almost any expenditure increase. However, a matter involving costs has not been implemented until it is fit into an overall state budget. The lots which, by means of a single decision, set up large parts of the expenditure side of the State budget must be willing to enter into a settlement for the entire budget.» I am not taking a reservation about the things that have been known now, among other things. the one being treated today. I guess he had to do that in order not to speak directly against his own party. But no one can be in doubt that his criticism strikes just one thing like this. There is no doubt either that the Workers' Party, if it had been in position, would have thought that a treatment could not be done like this. For the Left, this is about two things: firstly, a clean and responsible political handling of budgetary matters based on an overall objective of keeping order in the Norwegian economy; and secondly, of taking care of important things at the same time, both culture, sport and research. We are for all the measures that increased use of drugs for sport and culture will contribute to. We are also in favour of stepping up research efforts, not least basic research. These measures need to be assessed in relation to each other and in relation to other good purposes. That is what we have an overall budgetary procedure for. That is what policy is about: prioritisation of different good objectives within a responsible framework. The kind of populism that tries to lift this dilemma has no sense for the Left, and it is very regrettable that the Workers' Party has gone into that course. I agree with Thorbjørn Jagland, who in the article entitled ‘Frp can get the full ceiling on Ap’, says: ‘The right priorities can only be achieved when all conditions are on the table. For SV and Frp, this is not a dilemma. They can only collect the money they lack by going to the oil fund." In this picture, as the vote also shows, and as many have said here in the debate, there is a need for a proper and thorough procedure on a matter with such great consequences. I record that the Workers' Party is on a collision course with its seams and its own leader. It will be exciting to see whether the majority constellation of today is bringing together in new cases, and not least during the autumn budgetary procedure for 2003. There will indeed be a new turn of Norwegian policy on the political tactics of the Workers' Party. At first I said that the farther away from power, the easier this exercise is. The working party has seen it move far and away from that power. The left also wants greater efforts in terms of volunteering. We have shown that in a number of budgets. In all modesty, as a little bit of godmother to Frifond – I think maybe the Center Party took a bit of a hard time when it was their Minister of Culture who suffered defeat in this hall at Frifond – I would say that the idea behind Freefond has always been not to develop a big bureaucracy. And I'm genuinely anxious that Freefonds will evolve to become more bureaucratic if you just add to the scheme without looking at the organization. It is not the case that voluntary Norway only pays tribute to this. I will quote from a letter to all the parties at Stortinget, sent on April 15, where it says: ‘The size should take time to assess the issue as part of the process of notifying the paper on gambling legislation in Norway and in relation to the work on the forthcoming Culture Communication.’ – It is actually signed by the Norwegian Music Council and the Norwegian National Council for Children’s and Youth Organisations. There are no heavier organizations in the country on volunteering. And when they're skeptical, the parties involved in volunteering should also be skeptical.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e429	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e432	Let me first take a completely wrong case information from Skei Grande's side, namely that LNU and Norwegian Music Council should be skeptical of the change we are now making. It is true that they had clear demands for what such a change should mean, but those demands are, as I can understand, fully met. And LNU has also confirmed this in an e-mail later, after this letter, which was possibly based on some crazy information from someone who knows LNU well! Being a good mother to Frifond doesn't even help if you don't even agree to give a little money in a confirmation gift! You're worried that it'll be too bureaucratic if there's too much money. Is it that way to understand that the less money Freefonds have, the better it really is, because then you avoid bureaucracy? Once a fund scheme has been set up, there must be money there. There are just questions about how many applications are being met. All applications are processed. Someone is being rejected, others are being granted. There is no more bureaucracy because more applications are granted than they are rejected. The representative of Skei Grande is so concerned about decisions in the Stortinget that have budgetary implications. Now I have experience with the Left in Stortinget as State Council, namely on the education side, because there I had him as Skei Grande's alternate on the Education Committee. There are, for example: Left decision that study funding had to be introduced from 1 August 2002 with an even greater increase than the government provided – with quite considerable budgetary implications. I did not come to the Stortinget and said that no, it is going to go beyond the rest of the education budget or the rest of the research budget, as the Minister of Culture does in this case. I said, well, then we'll take it and try to follow it up. Then we proposed a study funding plan in the budget. Then left came into the government, and then they removed the whole increase! That's the way the left drives. They decide something in the Storting and do not follow it in the budget at all. Here we intend to follow up the decisions made here, in the budgets. And my question to Skei Grande is: Will the Left stand at the pace of the research that has been involved in taking decisions in the Stortinget, and which the majority here now repeats in the form of decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e441	It is clear that Giske has not quite figured out what he is talking about in relation to Freefonds. Free funds are a completely different way of organising support for volunteers than anyone else. It is extremely low-bureaucratic, based on the fact that a person should spend small sums on groups that will be able to process their applications quickly. It is also based on having a small bureaucracy that manages the scheme. One of the main points here is that social democracy has always been voluntary with bureaucracy. That's what's the main challenge for NGOs now, getting rid of the social-democratic overbureaucratisation and also the government organisation of the tipping, which we now see we have. It is impossible for volunteers to run games properly. It would have been interesting to hear if the Progress Party actually agreed that we should have the state monopoly of games that we have in Norway. In fact, I doubt whether it is also contrary to the EEA Agreement that we have a monopoly of an online system that games also have. I am terrified to introduce new social-democratic arrangements with great bureaucracy that will take care of the small schemes as well. If the Free Fund becomes too large, the Free Fund must be delegated to the states, and then we can have a different administration, a different bureaucracy and also a different way of doing this. The fact that volunteers organise Freefonds naval, as they do now, requires that Freefonds are not too large. Then it has to be organised in other ways, and then I'm worried about the bureaucracy. Then it's always scary to be the little boy who has to say that the emperor doesn't wear clothes. It is clear that former Minister of Research Giske has a large image of himself as Minister of Research. But I must say that there are a lot of people in the different research environments who do not fully agree with the former Minister of Research, but that it may also be the Left who have actually been in charge of the research and also received credit from the budget for having been in charge of the research, and perhaps not necessarily the Minister of Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e452	I will never stop wondering that more money for Freefonds will give more social democratic bureaucracy in Freefonds. It would surprise me if that were the result, at least when it was explicitly stated clearly from our side that this is not what the money should go to. I have rarely felt that there is more money that leads to more bureaucracy. On the other hand, more rules and control procedures tend to do so, as there is too much of it in the cultural field, but they have tried to do something about it. Then I can reassure the representative Skei Grande that, in relation to the EEA agreement, this is probably not going to be a big problem. For as long as it goes to non-governmental organisations like Freefonds, you'll probably accept it. Although it is the state that collects the money, but ensures that voluntary work benefits, it is probably within the framework of the EU and those with whom the EU has signaled that they will come. I never stop to wonder what the opposition parties have to do with politics, because that's what this is all about -- to make sure that a decision in this context is in the best interests of volunteering and culture. So I'm going to think that you spend LNU on income so that you don't have to give more money to come, among other things. to the benefit of children and young people. It stands for its own unfairness. The Left's representative made a point here that the Left has received credit – yes, it must be that in the budget they were able to limit the cuts in the Labour Party's proposals in the State budget, that is, because it was a fact that what came out of the government shift was less money for research than what was originally in the Workers' Party's budget proposal. But I'm going to challenge the representative on what was Giske's question: Will the Left also stand firm in the future for more money and for it to be strengthened? Then she gets a new opportunity to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e467	Free funds may need to be organised in other ways if the Free Fund is to become very large. That doesn't mean we have to go into the ditch, but that means we can go into that ditch, and these parties haven't even bothered to figure out. They haven't even bothered to ask that question or put those premises in relation to that. I also think it is important to have a debate about sport and bureaucracy, about whether sport is spending all its money correctly, and whether it is right to have such a strong central part of sport when we know what challenges are local. Then, obviously, Alstad did not understand what I said about the EEA. It is not that you allocate the money to volunteers, who are the discussion. What is the discussion is whether Norsk Tipping, like the state, builds up an online game usage system that they have a monopoly on. I believe it can be discussed whether it is right according to the EEA Agreement that no other, non-governmental organisations are given the opportunity to use the online system. I think that would have been a much bigger scoop for volunteering. It had to be much more interesting for the Progress Party, and it's actually a big question that we think should be investigated. But you haven't been able to do that because you've been so busy. Alstad, like me, is also an alternate in this room, but I can inform him that it is the Workers' Party that now belongs to the opposition parties, and not to the rest of us, sail if it may feel that way, and it was tempting to call us the 'opposition parties'. As far as research is concerned, you should be aware that the Left is going to fight for it. That's what we were fighting for when Giske made his case, and we were also fighting for an increase in the Research Fund in the previous budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e484	The representative Grande was in on this with power and abstinence and movement from power and against power. I have to be allowed to say that it is incredible how large a party can be with so little excitement, as the Left's representative here now expresses. It seems like the Left in a way is the party that is responsible and has a large group in the Government and a large group in the Stortinget. I don't share that point of view. But I record that the representative from the Left angles argues the argument in relation to the Christian People's Party and the Right. Now it is bureaucracy that is the great sinner in comparison with the fact that the Left cannot accept such a proposal as this. And there are huge additional appropriations coming – that is, the 270 million. kr resulting from this Decision to voluntary teams and organisations and to sport. Well, at least that's interesting. I have to say that the representative Alstad was in the midst of a significant point that I myself have tried to raise in a number of debates, namely this fear of politics. You're so afraid of running politics in this house that you have to put all the responsibility in the government's hands. The representative Lånker said earlier today, in relation to the challenges of cash support, that they have had in their programme since the 1980s. The Progress Party has had this proposal under consideration here today, in our programme since the early 1980s, and we have promoted it a number of times. So if there's enough head training, it should be useful. But then my challenge to the representative Skei Grande. When she's so busy with bureaucracy, and if she's so afraid that more money for Freefonds gives more bureaucracy, my simple question is: how much less would the representative Skei Grande give to Freefonds for fear of more bureaucracy? Would she at all give anything? I know that the representative is former Secretary General of the LNU, so she might have some experience with that. How much less would the Left give to Frifond?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e498	The Progress Party believes that we're afraid of running politics, but politics is talking about both the pluses and the negatives here in life. But some people think it's nice to just talk about the pluses, and it's not politics. There's everything else, and many of those terms don't fit to mention here from the pulpit. The problem is that you haven't gone through volunteering. I'm going to claim that I know volunteering, and I've largely spent my entire adult life in volunteer children's and youth organisations. I know how bureaucracy destroys them. What I'm concerned about is that if you're going to make big changes, for example. with Freefonds, you have to take on the job it is to look at how they are to be organized in order to achieve the goal. But you haven't taken the time to do that. You don't think it was as funny to talk about talking about getting more money. Taking that job is actually figuring out how to organize your work in relation to volunteering, you haven't been able to do it. Piet Hein once said that "Responsibility is so difficult to have, therefore it is provided a". And it's very stupid if it's "created a" in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e510	Today’s Odelsting’s review of the change to the key will help to increase the investment in sports facilities and open air facilities and strengthen the Free Fund scheme, with a view to bringing about a significant boost to voluntary child and youth activities. The working party wants all children and young people to have a safe growth. This is why we want to increase the allocation of sport, in order to help make sports facilities more accessible to young people and to strengthen the position of sports facilities in the community. Anyone who has or has had children in sports or associations knows that there is often a race between time and money. The parents are required to prepare mats, flea markets, tile otters, etc. The working party hopes that a change of key will help the parents' efforts. Of course, it is positive that parents work for the best of their children and contribute to doing and transport, but with a change in the key the sport will have an increase of up to 450 million. kr, which will have a significant impact on voluntary work in sport – not least in the construction and maintenance of community facilities. In this connection, I would like to mention that we have a number of enquiries about the prescriptions for the tipping agents that I would like to take this opportunity to address. It has been such that regulations restrict rather than provide opportunities for the development of installations. I can mention, as an example, airsports facilities for hang gliders, while paragliders, who eventually become a big sport with the same requirements for facilities as hang gliders, do not have the same possibility. Many children obviously run knotscross. How do we not know, but probably in the fields and in the gardens. Small motorcycles are still being sold away. Perhaps it would have been good to ensure this and give these opportunities to apply for funds from community facilities, so that all branches of motorsports can train and run on approved tracks and in controlled forms. This also applies to other motorsport facilities which are not specifically mentioned in the regulation at present. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to amend the regulations, so that there is an opportunity to apply for funds for motorsport facilities, not just for specific sports, as it says today, but for motorsport facilities in general. One often gets the impression that it's with culture that with the weather, everyone talks about it, but no one does anything about it. Today I say, finally! Now culture will also have a raise of 400 to 450 million. kr. This will mean that the grant to local and regional cultural buildings can be seen in the context and that multi-use halls can be a good solution where you can have cultural buildings, libraries and a theatre scene where children and young people can perform theatre plays as guests. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Government Parties, advocates the allocation of resources for the implementation of the cultural school bag, increased funding for the Free Fund and investments in local and regional cultural meeting places. The cultural school system will provide children and young people with access to cultural experiences and the opportunity to participate actively in cooperation with cultural institutions and professional artists through cooperation between schools, cultural schools and voluntary teams and organisations such as choirs, corps and amateur theatre teams. I think we should all recognise that art and culture are of great importance to well-being, regardless of where we live in our country. When there is a majority today for the sharing of profits from Norwegian Typing to sport and culture, we make visible to the Norwegian people what the money you and I play for goes to. Now it's easier to see that what we're playing for goes for good. I would also like to stress that Norwegian Tipping's surplus goes to welfare measures such as sport and culture. And we should be glad that Norsk Tipping manages gambling in such a good way. We know that the gaming market is international, and there are many unprofessional operators on the market who, unfortunately, are not subject to strict control for serious and socially beneficial purposes such as Norwegian Typing. Since I come from the natural state of Hedmark, I'm glad that the majority of the committee is in favour of that 7 pst. of the facilities for sport shall go to open-air facilities, such as natural paths and the refurbishment of open-air terraces, in order to allow even more people to get out and experience the pleasures of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e536	Yes, we could have just done it tonight!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e539	As Minister of Culture and the Church, I am of course pleased that the Stortinge wants to increase the funding for sport and culture by nearly $1 billion over the next three years. The money will do well to strengthen cultural and sporting activities, especially at local and regional level. In this way, the decisions are also consistent with the Government's policy. In my opinion, it is good use of national resources to increase investment in sports and cultural buildings as well as to increase the investment of children and young people, as one suggests by strengthening local sporting activity and cultural schooling. I am more uncertain whether the unusual procedure chosen is the best way to ensure good, long-term and holistic solutions in the fields of culture, sport and research. The changes in the key that have been proposed are detached from the ordinary management of the budget. This I think is basically unfortunate, especially when it applies as much money as in this case. I'm also worried that the party that today is some about how to use the funds, far from being some about the discovery. The proposal will reduce the revenue side of the State budget by 850 to 900 million. kr per. years when the change is fully implemented. The majority of the Committee places great emphasis on avoiding the loss of income being covered by the cultural and research sectors, by means of various Romantic decisions. But the same way the majority turn around and turn around the problem, the money has to be covered by savings in the budget. The budgetary management of both government and government is now one-time so that we do not escape this reality. This will result in a mixture of joy over the decision with skepticism for the proposals of the majority. At the bottom of the turbulence there is also a question of why the Labour Party in the government could not afford to prioritize presented by the Norwegian Sports Association on the change of the key, while they now, after just a few months of opposition, are able to do so – and without expecting a few months of it, notifying the proposition of a collective settlement on the gambling and lottery market or on the Sundberg selection's setting. This is not the usual cost of a party which, according to its own rules, always follows a responsible line of budgetary policy. I am also concerned that the major challenges on the cultural budget are not covered by the proposal for a new key. I'm aware that the plural proposal itself does not imply a decline in the cultural budget otherwise. But I want to remind you that there are a number of purposes that Storting has already given a high priority, such as: increased investments in archives, in the library and museum sectors, in orchestras, cultural construction osb. In relation to the impact on sport, the Ministry will examine the extent to which allocations can be differentiated between different areas, so that more resources are used where they are needed most. The semi-declaration puts up a commitment in sports facilities suitable for children and young people today and that gambling media are increasingly channelled to places with too few facilities. Greater access to resources also makes it possible to prioritize outdoor facilities, as the majority of the Committee and the Government want. The Ministry will look closely at how far the State should go in making demands to municipalities for free rental of halls and facilities for children and young people. The pilot scheme of the Free Air Organisation is under evaluation and, together with the Committee's comment, will provide the basis for the arrangements of the FMC. With regard to the impact on research policy, I would point out that the aim of the Cooperation Agency is to step up research efforts to the average OECD level by 2005. This is an ambitious goal. I am pleased that the multiple behind the setting is combined in this goal. However, it is difficult to see whether a new key has been provided or not to enable the target to be reached. The proposal gives the impression of strengthening the research through the increase in the Research Fund, but we all know that withdrawals of funds will have to compete with other areas before the framework rule of action gives us. The majority do not want the conversion to result in a change in the distribution of funds between different types of research or institutions, and ask the Government to ensure that its basic research is part of the collection of research permits. This requires the Research Fund to become a more general mechanism for funding research. The fund has a different function than before. It is difficult to adopt such changes without the issues being dealt with and discussed in advance. The government will return to this question, including: having regard to the fact that the Sem Declaration announces a review of the use of the Research and Innovation Fund’s returns. I can add that the invitation from Eirin Faldet to look at the regulations when it comes to applications for tippers, of course I will follow up. These regulations have been amended several times before, and if we can find better arrangements to meet the needs that exist, of course we should look at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e568	First, until something the State Council said is directly wrong – I have also seen the same error in the Minister of Finance's letter to Stortinget. She said that if the share of basic research in total research is to be maintained – with this increase in the Research Fund – it means that the use of the Research Fund has to be changed. That's wrong. The increase in the Research Fund contributes to an increase in the research appropriations of about Eight hundred forty million. kr. If you want to reach the OECD level by 2005, you might have to increase the research by NOK 4-5 billion. If the government then really stands by what it says, that it wants to carry out this escalation, it can take the entire other escalation as basic research. This would dramatically increase the share of basic research in total research resources without touching the way the fund is used. So what the council says is simply not right. It is fully possible to increase the share of basic research in the total research funds without changing the use of the fund. But then, of course, it is also fully possible to use the fund for basic research. At the latest in the 2002 budget, we spent 100 million. kr from the fund to equipment at universities. The Council of State says that this is a good use of state resources. But once again, there are concerns about the bonding of the space of the rule of action that is the objection. Yes, now we saw in the revision that we got 5 billion kroner in additional tax revenues that the Minister of Finance used to make sure that the revision went smoothly through the Government without having to implement other cuts. My question to the Council of State is whether you could imagine using some of that space of action in the next year's budget, so that you might be able to renovate on some of the 9 billion that the Council of State is concerned about is tied up. According to Bergen's Official Journal, the Council of State says that Stortinget has all committed 9 billion kroner, and that we are therefore facing one of the most difficult budgets we have had in recent times. Now it is the Christian People's Party itself that has been involved in these linkages – large tax havens that have been added to the 2003 state budget. The Labour Party would like to invite some of the bindings if the Council of State needs more room for action. So my question is, does the Council of State want to change some of the bonds that she complained about in the Official Journal of Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e577	When it comes to the decisions that have already been made in this Chamber on tax relief, I believed the representative Trond Giske was aware that we have agreed to a tax relief in relation to both the investment tax and depreciation rules – in fact, together with the Workers' Party, we have got several figures for it. It has our negotiations between the centre party and the Labour Party. We're happy with these changes, because I want a lot to culture, I want a lot to sport, I want a lot to research, but I also want to facilitate a good business that can create the basis for all these other measures. That is why the decision we are pleased with is a decision. Now, overplaying to 2003 is getting a little heavier because it is not introduced until 1 October. If the workers' party government had done what we were told in the agreement, it would have been introduced from 1 April. The next year's bill wouldn't have been so heavy. But that's the reality -- either we have to take away the investment fee, or we don't have to take it away. This is a good enterprise policy grip that we're behind. I also believed that the Labour Party did. At least I'm overconfident that the Progress Party does. Then we also know that when it comes to the distribution of funds, we are some in this room – most parties, perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party – that we should stick to the rule of action. And then, of course, the outreach of the Research Fund to go to research – as the opposition suggests we should add 14 billion kroner – will be done within the framework of the rule of action. That's why we get a challenge here when it comes to priority, and I've pointed that out. I'm going to fight for culture with beaks and claws, but the economic realities should at least know one who has been a minister before. He knows how this works, and then he should also know that it's not entirely illogical that one inserts these clues, when we see the decisions that we're about to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e586	The Council of State states that all that is contained in the proposal is in line with what the Government itself wants. Governments also say that she wants more both here and there – in research, culture, sports, etc. But in the reply to the reply from the representative Giske, the Council of State says that on the basis of the proposal, if we are to stick to the rule of action, the government has to give less to research or they have to take money from elsewhere. However, the impact of this proposal means more indirectly on research than on current transfers. So my simple question is, if this had not been adopted, does that mean that the Government and the Council of State would have allocated less money to research than what will result from this proposal? That's what the Council of States indirectly says. Then I was also badly affected when the Council of State in a way expressed how the money was to be spent in sport. I think that sport actually knows best by itself. The sport has also clearly presented its plans and wishes with the increased appropriations it receives here. Does what the Council of State now says, that she should enter and instruct the sport on what to use their increased appropriations for? The sport has been good enough to document how they want to use the money, and it is also said in the setting. With regard to the rule of action, as I understand it is the big problem for both the Christian People's Party and the Right, is it starting to become a small problem, and the Government and the Council of State feel that they are not going to run politics because they have imposed on themselves a bond that reduces their ability to conduct policies and developments in different areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e597	To take the last first, the question of this with the rule of action has become a coercion for us. At least what I'm overindulging in is that if we hadn't had good economic governance in our budgets, if we hadn't had a plurality in this room when it was about the use of the oil billions and when it was about the rule of action, we would at least have come pretty quickly into a coercion in relation to interest rate increases and possibly other outcomes, for example. inflation - one never knows what will happen. But at least we know that interest is increasing if we spend a lot more money than what is within the rule of action. It is a good tool for managing the Norwegian economy. I'm very happy that there's a multiple in this room that will actually follow this. There are many different ways to spend money, both myself and the representative Sandberg know that. It is not where the problem is located, it is to give priority to within the limits. Then I think it would have been a good thing for a government to put forward a budget where they looked at the means one had to consult. One knows what one wants to prioritize, maybe one has to use a different pace to implement an increase in the budget compared to what we prioritize over other things, but the point is that if one looks at everything in a healthy way before one locks up to hand out the money, has a better management of the budget, one has better governance with the economy. It would have been preferable, and I said that in my post. Otherwise, it is not expected from our side to control the details of sport any more than today. I know that sport has a lot of plans for how to use the funds, but there is a close cooperation between the sports movement and the ministry when it comes to using the funds, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e606	Although the Minister of Culture expresses positivity and rejoiced that sport and culture have increased in nearly a billion, he warns the Stortinget in view of the 800-900-million-dollar impact. kr. She likes Freefond, she likes the cultural school, she likes sports, and she likes to bet on the voluntary organizations. And the Council of State stresses that the research part is going up to the OECD level, as the plurality goes into the setting. Then the Council of State refers to the Sem Declaration, which calls for it to be invested in the voluntary sector. In short, the Council of State agrees with what the majority say in the vote. Then the Council of State refers to the rule of action, while saying that she should fight with beaks and claws for culture. As I interpret the article from the Council of State, it means that there will also be more money from the Council of State and from the Co-operation Board. Why is it more unfortunate when the money to be invested in culture, sport and research comes from the Storting than when it comes from the Government? Or doesn't what the Council of State says, that there's going to be more money for culture, for sport and for research?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e614	That's what I've been trying to answer a few times, that seeing the budget more in a healthy way is a better starting point for prioritising. As Trond Giske said in a previous line, we got some extra income in the revised that we're going to use for, among other things. Hospitals, we have a defense bill to pay, etc., so that these funds already go to important measures. When we are going to present a budget for the autumn, we also know more about the size of the framework. Then we can prioritise within the framework we have. Now we are bound up to do exactly what the multiple in Stortinget asks us to do. Of course, it creates a more square system in relation to thinking about a greater wholeness when it comes to the different priorities. One year it may increase slightly; another year it may increase more — one must see it over the entire four-year period. As I have said before: already next year, there are quite a few billions tied up in the budget. It's going to be a cool process for the cottage. This I know, and that is why I have also expressed the concerns that I made in my article, in relation to what is being adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e621	I think Eli Sollied Uppera's really asked a very good question. She referred to the Sem Declaration, which says that more effort should be made on the volunteer; more effort should be made on children and young people and on culture. And now you get a decision in the Stortinget where you just do it – bet more in these areas. Then it is problematic and irresponsible! The question is, of course, when you said in the Sem statement that you should bet more, was there anything else than money you should bet more? Were there even more words to bet on these areas? The Council of State indicated that the Workers' Party did not do its job with the investment fee in relation to the date of 1 April. No, we didn't. We could not prioritize such a large amount, because there were other things that were more important. Study funding was to be included in the budget – however, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland and the Government took out that money, but it was important for us. School construction was important, the nursery price was important. And the cultural budget was important – in fact, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland also cut that budget, with 60 million. kr. Could it not be that for the next year you saw that 270 million. kr to sports facilities, to sports activities, to cultural activities and to the cultural school bag was so important that they took 1-30 of their tax credits and said yes, yes, then they'll have to wait, then we'll just have to take 97 pst. by the tax relief, and then we get to this huge promise of sport and culture? I am glad that the Council of State now does not say the same as she said to the Official Journal of Bergen, that it will be the rest of the cultural budget that can be paid. That's where she says that. ‘it terrifies me that the established institutional culture, which is not covered by the agreement on a new ‘tip key’, may have to pay part of it’. Is it that we can count this for dead and powerless? I heard correctly that Skei Grande, the government party colleague, said that they wanted to reduce bureaucracy. But in Oslo, sports bureaucracy is reduced by cutting down sports because they don't get training time. It's a shameful situation that we should do something about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e635	I can't stop wondering how boldly the representative Giske stands here on the pulpit with his disbursements. Six months after he made an own budget with his government colleagues and did nothing to change it, he stands here with such security in relation to the proposal – when he does not have to find a cure himself! The worry I mentioned in Bergen’s Official Journal is still my own – of course I do. It would be stupid of me not to have it. And I'm so united in the way Ellen Horn answered the challenge from Ola T. Borrow for a while. What's strange here is that the Workers' Party says one thing in position and one whole other thing in opposition. And then Eirin tells Fallet that that time you didn't know how to rock the research. The research fund was there, the oil fund was there. Why don't a 14 billion move when you put it in the position and you can do it? Don't tell me they didn't think of it! But now they have come in such a position that they can handle this without having to take responsibility for the health. The party of progress has been in charge of this all the years. Of course, they usually had the right to do it. I would have done the same if I had been Per Sandberg & Co. The strange thing about this is the way the Labour Party argues, contrary to what they did six months ago, and contrary to what they suggested. Now that they don't have to take responsibility for bringing a health budget to the house that's going to bring them all plus and minus, they say yes. At least it doesn't create the big applause from my side. Besides, I also thought Trond Giske would stop saying that we cut 60 million. kr in the cultural budget. No, we didn't. We cut 40 million. kr in the press support. There wasn't one penny in the cut of culture in the budget we provided. Ellen Horn had proposed a good cultural budget. It was copied by the government I am in, and I am happy about that. But we took 40 million. kr in the press support – and that's what we did!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e648	First of all, I did not get an answer to my challenge to the Council of State in relation to research. If we completely disregard the proposal that is being discussed here now, is it that the Government would have reduced the appropriations for research? That, I think, is an essential question to clarify. If that's the case, the government's plan is to cut 100 million. kr for research in 2003, I understand the Council of State's argument, because then they get problems when we say that research should have the share of the funds it receives here. The second is: the council is also a family minister – excuse me, it has been! It is also interesting to look at the prevention impact of this proposal. We know about the major problems around, especially in the big cities, red tape, etc. – I don't have to ram up all that. In relation to that, it might be interesting to know if the Council of State sees an income side of the effort we're making here. It may well be that other budgets can be reduced as a consequence of the proposal on the table. So to the constant argument that you have to think completely. Now the representative asked earlier today that there was suddenly an extra 5 billion kroner in the revised version. Some say it saves the government and the finance minister. But there are new funds that appear in the middle of two budgetary procedures. Then it is responsible and free to spend all of these 5 billion kroner, while at the same time committing some funds for 2003. And this argument about the use of the oil fund – I would like to challenge the Council of State on it too: Is it really that the Norwegian State uses so much of the yield on the oil fund? The 2001 result showed something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e659	First of all, for research: No, the government has not proposed cutting in research - of course not. The research shall be stepped up. That's what I said in my article, and it'll also show up in the budgets that we're presenting. But once again, when we take out funds from the Research Fund and use them, the money will have to go into the account and be taken within the framework of the action rule. That's just the situation, and we have to stick to that. But research is important, and of course it will also be prioritised. Then I'm completely in agreement with Sandberg in that the means to go to culture and sport, will also have a good preventive effect on children and young people and their adulthood. And this is the positive thing about it -- that's why I'm here with a mixture of joy and a little anxiety, which I have then chosen to be clear. Now that we're adopting something that's going to be preventive, we're not going to have such a consequence that we can start cutting down, for example. on the health budget. That's not how it works, unfortunately. But that what is agreed here today will have a preventive positive effect, I am absolutely convinced of. And when it comes to the rule of action, we actually use quite a lot of our oil billions. We're going to keep doing that. We will do that in the current year's budget, and we will also do that in the next year's budget. But if we want to increase the use of them at the size proposed by the Progress Party, at least the vast majority of economists say that we will. a small increase in interest rates, and we are in trouble in the Norwegian economy. There is a cost, among other things. for the families of young children and for the municipalities with large debts, which I do not want to bear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e668	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e671	There is no reassuring procedure to make fundamental changes in funding for Norwegian sport, cultural life and research on the basis of a private legislative proposal from the Progress Party – and in the middle of a budgetary year. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are today, together with the Progress Party, about to do just that, by changing the distribution of Norwegian Typing's profits. So far, the scheme has meant that sport, culture and research have each received a third of this surplus, i.e. approx. $800 million. kr in the year for each of these good purposes. Now these parties have agreed to eliminate the payment for research, and that sport and culture share the profit equally between themselves. The cooperation parties want to maintain today's arrangement until the government has been given the opportunity to assess the matter in a larger context, and we remind you that the government has already notified it of a comprehensive review of the gaming and lottery area this fall. We have no objection to a more liberal economy for sport and cultural life in this country. The sport movement involves more children and young people than any other organised recreational activity. All over the country, we see the need to build new sports facilities and maintain old ones. Cultural life, too, is likely to apply positively to new 400 million. kr per year from the tipping agents. Nevertheless, we feel that it is irresponsible to increase grants for sport and culture without at the same time being given realistic coverage so that research does not become harmful. And this is where the new coalition's invasion proposal bursts in every direction. In a modern knowledge society, highly skilled research environments are a necessary driver for societal development and competitiveness. Such environments are far from free. And even oily Norway still has a long way to go before our research efforts are in line with the average of OECD countries. The case rapporteur, Trond Giske, sees it as a premise that research is compensated for by the state budget when it loses drugs. This premise does not seem reassuring in the research environments, and researchers have no reason to fear that research can be used as a balancing item in difficult budgetary negotiations. Of course, that will not happen to the cooperation parties. That's why we want to spend a little more time investigating the matter properly, so that the research community too can feel calm. But this does not want the new coalition. The representative Giske further says that the research can be ensured by adding 14 billion kroner to the Research Fund, which according to the representative Giske should be sufficient to provide an annual return that represents more than the funds available to research today from Norsk Tipping. We don't ignore that this can be a dangerous path. We're very critical of it. This may lead to a maximum of uncertainty, because the majority here cannot guarantee any return on the new fund, as the representative Giske tried to do in his main post. We have recently seen that even the oil fund has lost money, even though it is spreading its investments with little risk. Nor can anyone guarantee as high interest rates in the future as it is now for this research fund that we are talking so much about at the moment. As I was at the outset, it is irresponsible to change the key on the basis of a little elaborate private bill from the Progress Party, such as. does not say anything about the long-term budgetary implications of this. For the Right, it is important to ensure that both culture, sport and research have a predictable economic environment, so that none of these areas are harmed at the expense of one of them. But unfortunately, it looks like we're not getting the majority involved in this, which will be very unfortunate for the research.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e692	This has been an exciting debate with many and beautiful words. We are now dealing with Innst. O. No 44 on the change in the key for distribution of the tipping agents. As everyone here knows, the Progress Party promoted this proposal at the latest during the previous period. This is an important matter that will mean a great deal for both Norwegian cultural life and Norwegian sport. Nor will this decision, as some critics claim, imply a reduction in funding for research purposes. These were previously allocated one third of the drugs. By making this change, research objectives will, on the contrary, be increased by the majority ensuring that this lapse is compensated. This is done by helping, instead of using tipping funds for research, to provide the Research Fund with funds that will ensure that research is not harmful. The majority of the Committee would like to provide the Research Fund with funds from the oil fund, so that research will continue to have the same good framework conditions as they have today. With regard to the distribution of the tipping agents, these will now be distributed by 50 pst. on culture and 50 pst. on sports. This means an increase of 450 million. kr each in 2005, when the scheme is finally implemented. This is extremely important for cultural life, but not least for sport. This will mean that Sport Norway will have an even greater opportunity to invest in the development and rehabilitation of facilities for children and young people, as well as a far greater opportunity to invest in youth activities. And as everyone in this room is familiar with, this is a huge need all over the country. We see that a number of installations are in the process of being closed due to poor maintenance and that there is a precarious need for rehabilitation. Sport Norway has also clearly indicated that the new funds will be used exclusively for facilities and youth activities. It is therefore with great satisfaction that we note that the Progress Party has now achieved the bulk of this proposal. I must also settle with all those who have been so critical of the cultural policy of the Progress Party. I think it is quite clear that this proposal rejects these claims with all clarity. Of course, there is some of the cultural diversity that we in the Progress Party are sceptical about to receive support, but there is no doubt that the Progress Party is a 'people's culture party' engaged in the culture of the people, and of strengthening it. Now we have the opportunity to put all the beautiful words into practice by voting on the proposal of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e705	Everything is related to everything, said a Norwegian Prime Minister a few years ago. She was prime minister of a labor party government, as we know. Today you can get the impression that the Workers' Party is in opposition, practicing the exact reverse doctrine: nothing has to be associated with anything. Because now you are suddenly able to do what you have never dreamed of doing when you put yourself in government responsibility. The main spokesman of the Labour Party, Trond Giske, said in his introduction that this was not a new policy. The Labour Party had been involved in promoting such a proposal as early as 1986. At that time, the Workers' Party was also known in opposition. During the period from 1986 to 2002, the Labour Party has, for the majority of the years, been with the government, with the right of initiative, and has had the opportunity in every single year's draft budget to do what is now suddenly being done and has not been done. The fact that the SV and the Progress Party find each other is, of course, surprising in themselves, especially in terms of cultural policy, because if there are two parties that tend to stand as far apart as possible from each other in exactly the cultural policy, it is precisely the two parties. But they have one thing in common, even though they have nothing in common in cultural policy, and it's that they've never been under government responsibility, and there's obviously a strong community in making this kind of advances. But the Labour Party has actually been under government responsibility. The only positive thing I can read from the curve jump of the Workers' Party in this case is that one must have thought that one should remain in opposition for a very long time. Because if the party had at all imagined the possibility of having government responsibility again in the foreseeable future, they would probably never have entered into such a horse trade as has been done in this matter. The basis at the bottom is Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party that do not say a divisive word about research. The aim of the proposal was to change the key to the disadvantage of research. But of course, the Progress Party has also had to pay something to buy a horse, and the Progress Party has paid, is to move 14 billion kroner, or rather, one has to earmark 14 billion dollars of the oil fund for research purposes, and the return is to cover what disappears with the change in the key. The representative Eirin Fallet said that when the Workers' Party has changed its perception from last year, when Minister of Culture Horn rejected this proposal, it is because a solution has now been found. That's what's the difference. So what you've found is $14 billion that you didn't know existed a year ago. Frankly, this is not a serious way of running politics. And the assumption that has been made about the return of these 14 million is a highly uncertain assumption. You're assuming a certain rate of return-- if I've understood the calculation correctly, 6 pst. The real return on the oil fund has been far below this in recent years. And it's completely uncertain what research is actually going to be satisfied with by this way of doing it. Professor Jens Arup Seip used in his time an ornithological image of the Norwegian Workers' Party. He called it the eagle among Norwegian parties. I'm no expert on ornithology, but the sliding Workers' Party is now inside in budgetary policy, I have to say, I remember more about another bird species, namely the game. It has the property that it is willing to put eggs in any nest that bids. In this case, the Progress Party is the nest, and I hope it's not going to be a habit. The leader of the Labour Party, Thorbjørn Jagland, has, as it has been referred to in this debate, both in the form of an article and in the form of a letter, taken unequivocally away from what his party trap Trond Giske has been able to do in this matter. I think it is quite eloquent that neither the leader of the party nor anyone from the group management has found reason to take part in this debate. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e720	The President must remind the representative of the pay that it is now ours, and the activity of the birds is unpredictable at these times. The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e725	I'm going to add some comments to the cultural school bag, which now gets an increase of 170 million. kr. The cultural school bag of Moor and Romsdal is known as ‘Culturnista’. Before ‘Culturnista’ was a reality, the municipalities of More and Romesdal had to pay between NOK 5000 and NOK 10000 for a view. The corresponding today is between NOK 1000 and NOK 3000. When travelling, dieting, stopping and viewing to No. 1 view at e.g. The Theatre Our or the Opera in Kristiansund is paid, is the cost of View No. 2 noticeably less, which gives everyone greater possibilities to buy views at acceptable prices. In the past, the regional theatre in More and Romesdal had to use large resources to be in contact with each municipality or school to offer views. Distribution through 'Culturnista' means that children's and young people's views have an effective distribution network. Every student in the base school gets five meetings a year with high-level culture and practitioners. And five hours per. years correspond to many children and young people on TV in a couple of days, with cultural services run by coke and lead producers. Changing the key gives the cultural school bag $170 million. kr i extra funds – a large sum. It will be exciting to follow developments and to see whether the objective of access for all children and young people to cultural experiences and opportunities for participation is being met. In any case, the premise for our happiness has never been stronger than it is now. I would also like to stress the plurality’s comment that the distribution system should not be at the expense of corresponding government budget promises, but lead to a real increase in these objectives, at least corresponding to the increase in the supply from the budget. There is a strong signal from a broad and large majority that the Minister of Culture should not least notice. The centre party will find that there is a very high awareness of the proposed reduction of other cultural budget entries in the light of the decision taken tonight. The negative focus of the government party on this, in my opinion, the positive decision surprises me. The government's party repeats that the plural has not taken negative, just plus. But this decision is positive for sport, it is positive for children and young people, and it is positive for voluntary organisations. The combined effort in research needs to be strengthened. I can't understand the argument from the special Right-Representatives, which is that research is more secure with dependence on people's gaming effort, not by people's gambling dependence, than by an increase in the capital of the Research Fund of $14 billion. Overall, this is a ‘win-win’ situation, a good result, not least for children and young people across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e739	This is a special day for sport, in particular children’s and youth, and for children’s and young people’s culture in Norway. The Progress Party has now finally received a majority for a proposal to change the key. When I take the floor today, it is to link a few comments to some of the last posts that have been made. I would first like to grasp what the representative on the pay side said. He showed, among other things: to the Workers' Party – now I am not going to defend the Workers' Party, but it was a statement from the Representative for Wage that was quite eye-catching. Wages said that in opposition you do things that you would never have dreamed about in government. Yeah, that's probably right, because that's where the Right has every reason to know what they're talking about. Let's just take it that a few months ago, Right-to-Right voted, among other things. the legal right to treatment for patients. Two years ago, they stood together with the Progress Party and wanted to establish a legal right to treatment, and it is even stated in the Sem Declaration, but at the same time, you are voting against it when you have come to government – even if the government document says you should support it. It is also pointed out that it is strange that SV and the Progress Party have found each other in this case. Well, I also find it quite eye-catching that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have found each other in an alcohol case, which is referred to in this case, in view of the Right Party Program. It's not so unnatural that you find each other outside of what you usually do. The most important thing here is what the representative, Mr Rafiq, had to say in his speech, where she showed that it does not work to reassure the research communities in terms of the appropriations, which this case concerns. The representative also said that there was nothing in the original proposal on research. That's not right. Because if you, among other things, look at the summary in the vote today, there are several things that have to do with the piece of research on the part of the proposers. It also says: ‘It would therefore be most natural for funds for research to be allocated directly to the State budget and not to rely on profits from tipping agents.’ This is actually what the proposal says. It deals with what has to do with the research piece. There is also a direct proposal under D in the vote by the majority: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the share of basic research in the total amount of research funds and asks the Government to do so in the State budget.’ There is also an increase in the Research Fund. Here it is quite complete. What has to be attached to then is the government, because then the government you don't trust will follow up the decision of the Great Government here today in terms of that return and the research funds. I don't think the opposition can stand behind it. It's going to be a government responsibility. The opposition has given a signal here about how things should be done, so that both sport, culture and research are strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e762	Now I happened to notice that the representative was out of the room under the posts of the representative Nesvik. But the representative Nesvik was concerned about something very important. If the representative's pay every single time from the pulpit is going to try to make all the other unprofessional, he has really failed today. For if the representative of the payroll had used some resources to see what was in the rationale of the proposal, and what is suggested, he would have seen that it was not useful to cheat and fantasize from the pulpit. The representative Nesvik referred to what is in our original proposal. So when the representative on the payroll says that there is no question of research in the original proposal of the Progress Party, I am happy to be allowed to refer once to what the representative Nesvik was about. The reasons for the proposal are as follows: ‘If a two-thirds of the profits from Norwegian Typing to sport and culture are introduced, the funds currently used for research from the tipping funds will be eliminated. In the opinion of the proposers, it is inappropriate for tipping agents to be used for research purposes. Norway is now far behind our closest trading partners and the other Nordic countries in investing in research. We are also well below the average for OECD countries. Norway must therefore make a commitment to research in the coming years, which requires coordinated planning. It would therefore be most natural for funds for research to be allocated directly to the State budget and not to rely on profits from tipping agents.’ That is what the representative for the payroll has smoothly overlooked. Then it's no wonder that the Right and Part Christian People's Party uses that kind of argument. They do not find any means of attacking the proposal except for what is done under the so-called ‘rule of action’. At least we have a clean conscience in relation to it. The point is that once again, when the representatives of the Right and partly Christian People's Party have been to the pulpit today, they have met themselves in the swing door several times. It's almost so you think they're in the swing door. The representative's salary becomes very concerned when the other parties come to an agreement with the Progress Party on some things. But you don't have to go back far in time to find things where the Right joined the Advance Party, or that the Advance Party joined the Right, where SV also joined the Laden – both after the representative's party joined the Government, and to a great extent before that time. So here's the thing about the cow that incredibly quickly forgot that it had been calf. That is all that remains of representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party in the debate here. They do not find any factual arguments for attacking the proposal. On the one hand, they specify that they agree with the intentions and everything, but then we have something called the rule of action, and then they even use the means that are far below the line in relation to the decisions we make here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e774	However, the President would argue that the term ‘jux and fantasy’ is not acceptable as to the nature of the contribution to the representative’s salary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e777	I can say I agree that the expression «jux and fantasy» is unacceptable, but it has rarely been less unacceptable than this time! I understand that there is concern about decisions in the Storting that are binding the budget, when you are from a party that promised 3 billion more in defence with brim and brim, and you broke the promise sovereign, when you are from a party that promised more in funding for the study than the Workers' Party, and not only did you break that promise, but you removed the Workers' Party for funding the study. On the area by area you went to the voters and said one thing and did something completely different. You don't have to have a lot of theological education to realize that it breaks one of the 10 commandments in a pretty basic way. It is quite incomprehensible that such a presumptuously educated man as Inge Wohnning stands on the pulpit and serves direct untruths. You compare the oil fund with the Research Fund and say that the oil fund has actually gone down, and then you say it can happen with the Research Fund. No, it's not, because the Research Fund's return is determined in a completely different way from that of the Oil Fund, because it's not that it's determined by the rise or fall on American stock exchanges, but it's determined by the long-term interest rates in Norway. With the policy of the Government, there is no danger that those interest rates will fall dramatically with the first. The other thing that's directly wrong is that they say that Thorbjørn Jagland has taken a distance from what we're doing in the hall. No, Thorbjørn Jagland has made it clear that he does not disagree with the things we have come up with. And, of course, he's not what he is, he's the leader of the Workers' Party. Inge Wohnning Thorbjørn Jagland or Jens Stoltenberg are missing in this debate. It is possible that other parties may have to act with decency when debating matters in the committee. We're doing quite well, I feel, in this debate, also with the team we're dealing with. This is not a serious way to pursue politics, says Right. Now I'm going to say what's serious. What is serious is that sports teams in the Right-Handled Oslo must thank you with one hour a week to practice. It's impossible for a team to do serious sports with one hour a week. Instead, they are laid down and liquidated. Fewer children and young people are allowed to participate in sports. It is serious in the Right-steered Oslo that sports grounds are closed, that swimming pools are closed due to lack of maintenance, and that some schools do not have gymnasiums and thus have to refrain from gymnastics for several years. It's serious. What is serious policy is to do something about this, and that is what the decision today involves. It is possible that we should do more when we were in government. At least it's high time we made this decision, so that sport and culture get the money they really deserve, and that we support under the huge effort and the billions we actually get by people spending time on their kids and their young people, contributing to music clubs, sports teams, associations and teams all over the country. They deserve the hand bill we can give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e790	The representative Trond Giske has an adventurous ability to talk about something else when he is met with criticism. I could also use an article to talk about something else. There is a lot of other things you can talk about than that. That matter concerns the case, concerned Giske with one sentence in his last post. And I guess you could call that a substatement. He said: It is possible that we should have done something about this when we were in government. It's a glittering form of understatement, I must say. But Gisk does not find it striking that he has found these 14 billion – for now once to refer to the representative Fallet – only at the moment he was out of government. And then he was suddenly able to throw himself around, even so quickly that it wasn't even necessary to wait for the investigation that his own government has started, probably because it thought the investigation was necessary. Because I assume that the government Trond Giske himself put in, did not undertake investigations that it thought were superfluous in terms of the policy on the use of lottery revenue. The representative Sandberg spoke of meeting himself in the swing door. I don't have any experience with that – I don't know if Sandberg has it either. In that case, he has to use the swing door in a very special way, I think. I would almost think that he had to get out of the swing door if he were to have any chance of meeting himself. I know very well that the original document No. The 8th proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection referred to research. Yes, it did! It was just to be missing when you had to change a 60-year-old distribution key, that you didn't mention it. What I was aiming for was that there is not a single word about how you intend to meet the needs of research, and there is not one syllable about the volume. Now the majority jointly boasts that research efforts are being increased by a certain percentage. There is nothing in Document No. The 8th motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials And it must be allowed to remember that the times when research policy has been discussed in this Chamber, the Progress Party has not exactly distinguished itself by being the party that prioritises research. The reality of the proposal that is becoming a majority today is that two of the inherited three objectives, sport and culture have been taken out, and said that these should be given higher priority than today. That is a concrete decision. And then you try to capture and repair the damage to the research by doing something with the billions in the oil fund. It's a very improvised way of running politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e805	I record that the representative Wohnung did not go any further into the polemics of the Research Fund's return compared to the oil fund. Then I believe the ball that died, to use the sports language, and that we don't get to hear these claims any more from the Right. One should simply have been better involved in the matter than spreading such things. In the case of the Research Fund versus research appropriations, it is no longer back than when the Right took over the government power after the Workers' Party, that it was decided to cut the industrial research by 200 million. The research fund was increased, as it would yield more returns in 2003. It did little to help those who lost the money in 2002, but it was kind of the compensation for doing such a cut. And so Inge Wohnning says something very interesting, which I really hope is being referred around: «This is the matter», said Trond Giske only «one sentence» about, and that is what the Workers' Party had done in this matter before, and now. That's what the matter is about for Inge Wohnung. For the majority – I think I can talk for all those parties – the matter is about something else. It's about the tens of thousands, not to mention hundreds of thousands, of people around the country who lack a sports field, who lack a swimming pool, who lack a handball hall, who lack opportunities to do their sports, who do day and night with tombs and phone catalogs and soldering, and get little time to do what they're really going to do: corps, choirs, sports, and all the voluntary activity. That's what the matter has been about. And it's quite amazing, after three hours of debate, that the representative, in fact, has not come to realize that this is the point – that we are actually making the biggest promise for voluntary Norway today, and the Right Party is going against it. I think there are many who have heard fine speeches both from the Right and especially from the Christian People's Party about the importance of volunteering. But it helps so terribly little with all the fine words. It is the ability to carry out the voluntary activity that is indeed significant. And the Right-steered Oslo is of the very worst. Here, there is really a completely scandalous situation for volunteering. So the representative pays a large number that the Workers' Party behaves differently in opposition than in government. Yes, of course we do. You don't think you're behind Document No. Eight proposals in the same way when you sit in government, because then you sit with the government apparatus and prepare matters in a different way. Document No The 8 proposal is precisely the opposition's ability to actually influence policy, to set the agenda, to implement measures regardless of what the government agency decides to do. Of course it's like this. In fact, there is a difference between sitting in position and opposition to the working methods used. Because it is different when you do not have the investigative apparatus and the agenda function that the government position provides. Then you also have to use other methods to get it through.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e818	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e821	I'm very grateful. After Trond Giske's last post, I finally understood what the matter was about, because he said it very clearly. And in his summary of what the matter is about, he did not mention the research with one split word. He thus announced quite involuntarily what the matter is about, namely exactly what I said in my last post, that it has become clear that now is the convenient time to bow down to the lobbying activity that has been conducted intensely and efficiently over a long period of time. I am also grateful that the representative Giske confirmed that the Workers' Party operates policies according to completely different principles when you are in opposition than when you are in position. It was unnecessary to confirm it, but it is easy to say it explicitly as well. But the real difference is obvious that when you're in opposition, you don't feel any need to take responsibility for the coverage of the proposals you're making. Then it's going to be driving politics, which the majority have talked about in this room a relatively cheap exercise. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e828	One minute is short and speaking time must be respected. Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e833	In my previous post, I was involved in meeting myself in a swing door. Yeah, that's a good achievement. It's a great performance, and the pay is going to do it once and for all. So that's where he's going to have honey, because it's not easy. Then pay up here is twice and distorts the debate far from what is proposed in the proposal. All the demands made by the representative for pay have been made as a proposal in this position. So if the representative is so concerned about pay and the right, they should at least vote in favour of the proposals for decisions under C and D dealing with research. Then the representative had received what he wanted, and we have in a way secured the research in the future as well. But the representative, Wage and Right, would rather have the old system of research depending on how much people play in this country. But now, at least, we have secured research in a better way in the future, through the proposals for decisions that lie here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e840	No wages have been up on this pulpit several times, and in his rhetorical way he has attacked this proposal. I'd like to ask Inge Wohnning to read the record of this debate, because it's actually so that there have been countless contributions that have gone on how one thinks about strengthening research. Then one should stick to the matter, said Inge Wohnning. The representative has now been inside both swing doors and birds and I do not know what, which has created colorful lines from Inge Wohnning in this matter. But I'm a little confused, because you get a sense that there's something terrible happening today. What's happening is so sad and sad. But think of all those out there who are happy with this decision! Inge Wohnungsparte sits in government. The lot of the pay has been in opposition, and then there was a lot of Document No. Eight proposals coming from the right. But now it's not. And why isn't that? Well, that's precisely because Inge Wohnning's party is now in government, and then you don't use Document No. Eight proposals. That's the change. I think we should be happy. No pay can be happy too. Many can rejoice today. Maybe they don't have that many bazaars, maybe they don't get to be on so many drachmas. If there's no reason to enjoy it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e850	We are approaching the end of the debate. When the gunpowder falls, we will be left with the following fact: this hall will adopt the greatest rise in the history of voluntary Norway, the greatest rise in the history of appropriations for sports facilities, to spend a few dollars on training or other expenses you have, and a revolution for Culture-Norway. The cultural school bag gets a 15-double. Buildings and libraries receive a very valuable grant, and in the case of children’s and youth activities, more money can be sought and allocated through the Free Fund Facility. We have correctly recorded that the representative from the Left, who will have the floor after me, believes that this is a maxim on how much Freefonds can use before the bureaucracy becomes too overhanging, but we have not yet got the figure on where that ceiling should be. The representative's salary has largely gone away from what he began to say about research, both with the concern for returns compared to the oil fund, and what the Minister of Finance wrote in his letter that this was going to lead to changes in relation to basic research, and that there will be consequences for the escalation plan. No salary changes the opinion from post to post on what this matter is about. In the post before the previous one, he was concerned about what the Workers' Party has done in this matter before and now. Now it was the research it was about. It's not about any of those parts. It's about sports and culture getting a valuable boost. Then it affects the research, because the research has depended on how many people play the lottery, but we have secured it by increasing the Research Fund by 14 billion kroner. In fact, we're doing this in such a way that research gets more money than it got before. So the government has helped a little bit on the way to what they need to step up research to OECD level. Now there's reason to be concerned about what the government will do with it, considering that you started the government career by cutting 200 million. kr in the proposal for a research budget to which the Workers' Party had submitted. Therefore, it is reassuring that we will also have a majority in favour of the progress of research, there is proposal C in the vote, and that the share of basic research will also be maintained, there is proposal D in the vote. I would call on the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party to vote with the majority, at least for the proposals for decisions under C and D, so that we could have a unanimous increase that states that we should stand firm on a stepping up to the OECD level, and that we should stand firm that the share of fundamental research should be maintained. At least it would be interesting to hear from the Left Party whether it really is the government's insistence on the escalation plan, whether it promises to come back with the budget in the years to come that will ensure that we achieve the OECD target. We provided for a budget in 2002 that was ahead of the plan in relation to that objective. The research fund will now have a big promise, so we should have all the opportunities to achieve the ambitious goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e859	During the debate today, I have tried several times to prove that the emperor has no clothes on – I try again. The historical promise that Gish is talking about is the first year about the same size as the VAT compensation government is now putting in. That's how big it is, so historic and fantastic it is. But I must say, unfortunately, that the emperor has no clothes on. So it's about how much this helps the layers, how many fewer do it will be, and how great it will be with this money. You could say that Freefond goes directly on duty. But how many sports facilities you have doesn't affect how much effort your parents have to spend on hard work. A lot of it goes through today's tipping order. The cultural school bag does not affect the number of hours spent and the activities in which parents participate, it does not affect it at all. But one fools oneself into one reality or another that this is a very difficult lift, whereas it is really just a bureaucratic disguise in relation to the big debate we could have had about lottery, about games, about the possibilities for the volunteers to come forward, and about moving on to that commitment. And then finally, I've heard that the right-hand side of Oslo is kind of so bad about this. Now it's not so bad that Oslo's right-hand drive, it's also left-hand drive. The big problem for Oslo is the cost standard that has been introduced in relation to the government's use of money, and that we have had a number of workers' party councils that think it is best to have with the number of installations in their annual report, and not where they could build, and everyone knows that it is incredibly much more expensive to build facilities in Oslo. But what we can comfort the Workers' Party's representatives with is that the promise they have had regarding artificial grass and ballbinger and other things in Oslo in recent years is considerably greater than the Workers' Party was ever near when they put power in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e868	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e876	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e883	During the debate, Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:16 on the proposal by Per Sandberg and Ulf Erik Knudsen on the amendment of the Law of 28 August 1992 No. 103 on gambling, etc. [[2001-2002]] [[After provision of funds has been made, the profits of the company shall be distributed by one-half for sport and one-half for cultural purposes]] Not acceptable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e927	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. The President expects the Left to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e942	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e955	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-21-lower-2.ana.ud1609e980	B, C, and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
