ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e48	On Monday the Storting received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following will meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Councillor Lars Sponheim Councillor Kristin Klemet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e67	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research. The Norwegian monopolistic school, the single school, is failing in many fields. Not only has the OECD’s latest report shown that Norway is in a worrying position far below the list of results in terms of reading, mathematics and natural sciences. Studies also show that there is a great deal of anxiety in Norwegian school classes. Schools also appear to fail where special education is required. Parents who have children with reading and writing difficulties feel that the school does not provide help as a helper. The result may be discouraging for the children concerned. I refer to a look-up in the media on Monday 14 January about a person who has received so-called special education for nine years to the incredible sum of 1 million. kr. According to the notice, the person is now 20 years old and illiterate. So there's a bunch of money going on with zero results. What will the Council of State do to ensure better quality of special education given in Norwegian schools, education which the student under the Training Act is entitled to receive and the municipality is obliged to provide? What will the Council of State do to improve the public offer to students with difficulty in reading and writing?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e78	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Sortevik, is concerned that not all of the results in Norwegian school are the same as we are happy with. The report we received from the OECD, the so-called PISA report, shows that although we spend a lot of resources in Norwegian school, we are cutting average professional outcomes, that we have more anxiety and discipline problems in Norwegian school than in many other countries, and that we also have great differences between strong and weak students. We are correct in balancing differences based on the economy of parents, but we are not equalising differences for other reasons. It's important to do something about this. The government has reduced a sample to look at the quality of the entire initial training. We want to see primary and secondary education better in the context. Here, of course, one will also look at this with special education. With regard to the statements that have been made in Dagbladet, to which the representative Sortevik referred, I must first of all make a reservation on the story. It could be sides of the one we don't know about. There may also have been other problems. But it is clear that it is very regrettable if a student, after going through a long school, has not learned to read. The municipalities and county councils are responsible for providing special education. However, we hope and believe that some of the recent measures implemented by the State can help to improve this. Sometimes it's very good, but in some places it's not that good. The State authorities have done so, among other things: improving the Training Act. Special instruction manuals have been developed. Testing of the mandatory use of screening tests in readability has also been carried out. I would also like to mention that we are going to strengthen the hours in Norwegian, which was adopted in connection with the last state budget. If I'm going to point out what I think is most important, it's, after all, the competence of our teacher's corps. We have integrated many students in Norwegian school, all students in principle, but the competence in special education may not be as good as it should be. This is why it requires teacher training, which we are going to revise, but also for continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e93	I thank you for your answer. The opposite end of the problem related to the large resources used for special education is actually to have access to such education. A natural follow-up is therefore to ask: Who owns the funds for special education, which is also a statutory right after an individual-based investigation? Is it the municipalities that can freely dispose of funds intended for special education, or is it the case that the student and the parents actually have a word in mind when it comes to accessing the resources to be used for statutory special education?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e98	Of course, parents should have a word with them when it comes to their children’s schooling, and especially when you feel that students, sons and daughters, have special problems. But there are municipalities and county councils that are responsible for all training within their municipality and county municipality, and this also applies to special education. The training offices in the counties are responsible for supervision. That department can contribute is law and regulation, and I believe that we have got something better laws and regulations, which have been adopted in this house in recent years, but of course there are also resources used by the state. This may apply, inter alia, to: guidance and continuing training to facilitate the fulfilment by municipalities and counties of their obligations. But I'm going back to the question of competence. Often people talk about resources. I believe that the competence of school leaders and teachers is a crucial question for getting a good special education. But, of course, parents should be involved if they feel that their children are missing out on something essential in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e105	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e108	First, a small comment on these comparative studies, which shows that Norwegian students read and write about that. on the average. We must not present this as bad. It may not be good enough, but Norwegian students are above average compared to students in a good number of countries we compare with. The performance and performance of Norwegian students are quite good. So the picture is more nuanced than what we can often get the impression of. So for special education. What is often used in special education is that students are taken out and given individual hours, rather than that one then in many ways sees these special resources as part of the school's overall resources. My question to the Council of State is therefore: is she willing to look at the use of the resources for special education where we take out the students and use individual hours, so that we rather co-operate this as an overall resource, that schools are given greater freedom to dispose of the funds as they think it appropriate for the use of special resources? Because we have quite a lot of special resources in school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e115	I always think we should look at the use of resources, especially if we spend a lot of resources and don't get the results we want. The representative here, Mr Rikvam, is concerned that local individual adaptations can be made, and I think that is also a very important element. But the whole purpose of special education and the legislation we have received in recent years is that it should be individually adapted. A realistic training target shall be provided for the pupils to be jointly established and an individual training plan shall be established and evaluated. If you follow such a regime, you'd think it was individually and locally adapted. But you don't succeed in everything. Therefore, I will be able to help assess the use of resources and see if we can achieve this even better, and of course also see if we can give greater freedom to it. For every case here is completely unique and completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e121	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e124	It's like social and professional problems are very often related. Children who fall outside the social sphere are also very often having problems hanging out professionally. We know that there is now a lot of talk about schoolwork. On the one hand, children have often learned less about limiting at home. We know that the number of children with major behavioural problems is increasing, and we know that violence in school is an increasing trend. At all, we know a lot about a talking school day, and a lot of kids have social problems in school. Just in the light of the connection that often exists between social and professional problems, is my question to the Council of State if she wants to focus on strengthening the inclusion of environmental workers and social workers in school – we know that there are some, but does the Council of State want to do this in a systematic way to catch up with the children early enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e129	The President will remind you that even when the representatives are standing on the platform, it is a prerequisite to see the light when speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e132	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e137	The last specific question raised by the representative Haga, namely whether we should allow professional groups other than those we have traditionally had in school to enter school to a greater extent, I am positive. I think we should be more flexible both in terms of school leaders and perhaps also teachers' resources, but also other professional groups should be able to get in, because the school has different types of problems and challenges to face. In terms of integration, we have now, in this round, affected maybe two types of integration. We have to distinguish a little bit between that we have integrated students, for example. with disabilities, in Norwegian school, and that we also integrate students who are «hard», who have behavioural problems and concerns. We have to deal with this a little bit differently. But it's true, as Haga's representative says, that sometimes this is related. If you have one problem, there may also be an impact in other areas. I welcome the fact that other occupational groups can also be integrated into school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e144	Ursula Evje - Last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e147	This round of questions seems to show that, in the case of funds for special pedagogics that are individually organised under law, according to the statements in the newspaper, there is a lack of quality assurance that the funds are used in such a way that they really help each student to get through their problems. The municipality from which this student comes has no such quality control. The municipality itself is aware of this, as it has been in the legal system on a few occasions. Will the State Council contribute to a significantly more active role of the State Education Office in the quality control of the special education funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e154	Although the funds of the State Education Office were cut by the bulk of the funds at the last budgetary procedure, I am of the opinion that they have a very important role to play, and that the particular task of supervision is very important. I believe that we should focus on greater diversity in school, that greater freedom must be given to individual schools, school leaders, teachers, etc. to carry out education and training in the most appropriate manner. On the other hand, we need to have some quality requirements that are absolute and that the supervisory authorities ensure are complied with. I'm very concerned that this oversight function is good, and I would like to help it get stronger too. This also applies in the field of special education.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e159	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e162	I want to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Minister has rightly or wrongly been perceived as being more sceptical about a debate on Norway’s relationship with the EU than is the Einar Steensnæs of the Christian People’s Party. What is the Foreign Minister's comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e169	My comment is that when someone has understood that Einar Steensnees is more EU friendly than I am, it should be understood that something is wrong. I am the leader of the party that has a clear party program in terms of EU membership. Our horizon is clear. When we were able to reach a compromise on Sem, it was precisely because it is not possible to achieve that position in the near future. I think that some of the confusion in the debate comes from people putting very different things into what an EU debate is. For some, it is a matter of debating when an EU application is due, others are putting it in the context of a continuous debate on the issues that are important to us, linked to Europe. Not least, it's very important to do. And in many ways we do it every day. The Storting is also doing so very often, the last time we accepted the cooperation agreement on Europol. The size will receive an EEA message during the spring, which will provide a new starting point for such a debate. There is no doubt that an ongoing debate on our relationship with European processes is very important. However, any debate about Norwegian membership – in the sense of debating whether to apply or not – is at my discretion a little further into the future. And when I think it does, it's because I've been active in two referendum debates and thus have solid experience in losing. When the Right wants to raise this matter one next time, it is for the purpose of winning.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e182	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. Although the Minister of Foreign Affairs is sceptical about a debate on Norway's relationship with the EU, I assume that enlargement of the EU to the candidate countries of Central Europe that want it is an advantage both for Norway and for the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e189	Yes, I'm not a moment in doubt about that. It is also a partyed Norwegian opinion, which I have the impression of unites those of us who have a goal of membership, and those of us who believe that Norwegian membership is not the right way to go. There has been broad agreement in the Grand Duchy that enlargement is a good thing for Europe. When the representative Eyegen raises the question, I guess it's also because I've been dredging around the question: What elements can make the population turn around? I've been a little skeptical about an enlargement in south-east Europe necessarily is the element that will make the North turn around. I believe that the more direct effects for Norway in that case are the point, but it is an assumption and not a disparity of the importance of enlargement for the whole of Europe. I would like to welcome it to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e196	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e199	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. During many consecutive hours of questioning, SV has tried to find out what is the Government’s position on a settlement of the terrorist acts in connection with the intimidation of prisoners following the acts of war against Afghanistan. We have not succeeded so far, and I allow myself to try again. You've now taken various prisoners. So far, 20 prisoners have been transported from Afghanistan to Cuba for detention there. The treatment of these prisoners gets very strong criticism both from Amnesty International and from Human Rights Watch. It is about the immersion of prisoners and storage in cages, under strong floodlights. That kind of condition is considered torture in many other countries. My first question is: What does the Government think is acceptable treatment of prisoners? In many other regimes, prisoners are treated in very degrading and critical ways, and Norway is in many respects concerned with addressing this. Secondly, what is the Government's view of what is a court settlement that is an international legal order worthy of, after the acts of terror against the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e210	These are questions that I have answered a number of times in the past. Kristin Halvorsen and others have been given the clear answer that at the bottom of the legal proceedings to be carried out, international conventions and fundamental guarantees of legal certainty must be in place. I've said that a number of times, and I think it's funny that Kristin Halvorsen later on as if she hasn't heard that exact answer, because it's given many times. Mrs. Halvorsen also had a question related to the prisoners who are now in Cuba. I have also made it clear at that point that the essential requirements have to be met. The humiliating prisoners, on which Kristin Halvorsen was in, are a method that cannot be accepted. I have also answered the question from the press, which did not correctly understand the answer, i.e. They obviously didn't see what I was really saying, since they hid it far out in the article. But what we've seen in the papers now has been so much of a worry that we've taken it up with the U.S. authorities to clarify what the actual circumstances are. And since some newspapers have not realized that addressing such a question in itself is a political signal, I would like to stress that it naturally expresses the concern we have in the light of what we have seen in the press. The good news in the matter is that the International Red Cross is now given the opportunity to inspect the conditions of the prisoners more closely. Thus, we will have a very good and unhindered assessment of whether this satisfies or does not meet the essential requirements that must be set for the treatment of prisoners.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e221	It is a clear advance that the International Red Cross is given access to see what the conditions are like in these prison camps. I may think that it is not necessarily Norwegian press and SV that are particularly thin on these questions, but that Secretary of State Jan Petersen puts himself so carefully in relation to addressing important and important questions with the United States that it is difficult to see that some muscles appear. Let me come back to what is now a possible court order. It is true, as Minister for Foreign Affairs Petersen says, and as he stresses in many respects, that fundamental human rights should be respected in this respect. But it is extremely difficult to get the Foreign Minister to say whether he believes that fundamental human rights are respected if this court settlement is carried out with a military tribunal, where there is no opportunity to gain insight into evidence and where it is not possible to appeal other than to the President. The background to addressing these issues is the question of legal certainty and human rights, but also that we are dependent on a court settlement that has international legitimacy, not only among the closest friends of the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e232	The President will express some doubts as to whether ‘muscles’ are the essential prerequisite for a foreign minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e235	It's fun to have!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e240	Of course, it's a question of what to focus on. What I want to reject is that we haven't been clear on the basic questions. That it doesn't fit in with the message Kristin Halvorsen wants, is another thing. I want and hope that there can be a little more listening to what I'm saying about these questions. I think there are assessments on my part that are in good agreement with the important Norwegian positions we have, and what we know about the issues. If we leave the prisoners who are now in Cuba, and go over to talk about the tribunal itself, it's quite clear that the framework adopted by President Bush was just a framework. There were a number of questions in which were simply unresolved, but which, however not least, Kristin Halvorsen has thought that we should have protested on the basis of. Now there's a lot of evidence to suggest, as we see from the publication of what's now coming, that a good part of the questions that Kristin Halvorsen has been worried about, are also being resolved, such as public issues, that reasonable doubt should be brought to the fore, about the right to defend, and about access to appeal. But it doesn't have to mean that we're in any way ahead on these questions. [[President clubs]] I'm just mentioning this as a speech and in passing. I think it's a great advantage for the seriousness of the dialogue you're going to have, that you also know what you're talking about. [[President clubs]] So we have stated that the basic principles must be maintained, and then we will have a more specific dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e249	The President will suggest that this of seeing the light also applies to state councils! There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e254	The West went to war in Afghanistan to defend human rights and those who stand for terror. That was the whole basis for why many of us could accept that war. That starting point obligates me to do so. And what we've seen from Regeringa's handling in relation to a military court, in relation to the view of class bombs, and also in relation to the treatment of Taliban prisoners – although I'm pleased with the signals that are now coming in relation to this – is not a government that has been willing to take the lead in defending human rights. I'm not saying that the government hasn't taken it into account, but what we haven't seen is a government that's willing to go to the top of these questions. The role that Norway has traditionally played in international policy has not least been to stand on the barricades for human rights. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e262	It's the way to understand that seeing the light includes the question. It's not going to add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e265	I have to say first that the light on this pulpit comes out in the form of a zero, so what the president is asking for is to see the zero. I'll promise to do that for the future. I just want to say very clearly that the answer to Åslaug Hagas's question is of course no. There is no change whatsoever in Norwegian human rights policy. We're high on the track, and that's the background to the question that's now addressed to the U.S. authorities. At the bottom of it, there's a concern. We need to make sure that the essential requirements are met. So Åslaug Haga can be absolutely sure that this is being taken care of. When Åslaug Haga says that she has not seen the government's policy in this area, I must be allowed to say that it obviously has to some extent to be a matter of will. We've been very clear about the basic principles here. I have to say, moreover, that I reserve a little of my mind against the wording that you went to war in Afghanistan. We must remember that what was the opening of the war was the terrorist attack on the United States. What we have done here is to defend ourselves after the provocation that it was, and it is clearly based on UN decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e276	Bjørn Jacobsen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e279	One of the most difficult things to win is peace. When the war comes to an end, the most important thing is to have the principle ready. We've had international war settlements that have seen standards before. The Nuremberg process after World War II struck among others. held that acting on orders was not enough to excuse the operation. And we're going to live with that court-martial after 11 September. If we can't set new standards, we can at least try to avoid lowering the standard of international justice. I want to ask the Foreign Minister what kind of initiative the Government will take in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e286	Let me first say that I fully agree that peace must be won. It has many sides, and the court order is one of them. The second is the reconstruction that is now taking place in Afghanistan, which is outside this issue. As far as the legal settlement itself is concerned, I fully agree that it must satisfy the legal guarantees and the standards to which we have been accustomed. So we have a dialogue with the US authorities on the issue now raised, namely the treatment of the prisoners in Cuba, and we have also said the same thing about the military tribunals, namely that the basic standards must be maintained. The important thing is to keep this dialogue, so that these things can be met. I have not taken the initiative to take this out of American jurisdiction and into some form of international tribunal. I think I've discussed this with Jacobsen before, and I just want to remind you that an international tribunal that was supposed to work in cases where the national legal systems did not work is not established, and I'm not going to take any initiative in that direction. The important thing is that we comply with the essential requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e295	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e298	I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. The level of income in Norwegian agriculture has decreased significantly in relation to income trends in the rest of society. In periods it's also been negative. This is one of the main problems in the Norwegian agricultural industry at present, with a high rate of withdrawal and very low recruitment as a result. The Minister for Agriculture has on several occasions expressed a positive opinion on the future of Norwegian agriculture, and my question to the Minister for Agriculture is: What means does the Minister for Agriculture want to use to develop agriculture in the future and to ensure sufficient profitability for each professional?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e307	The representative of the Enox is quite right in saying that the most important issue for agriculture, recruitment, bringing in new generations that dare bet on this industry and a future there is related to income issues. Today, it's probably the situation that makes it hard to imagine that we have a level of income that allows us to move on to the next generation the number of farmers that we have today. That's our big challenge. I have stated on many occasions that if we are to be able to create an optimism in agriculture, it must be based on a realism of what the challenge is. And the big challenge I think we can isolate far on the way to milk production, which today makes up two thirds of the 12 billion spent on transfers. At the same time, the situation is that much of the milk production capacity built around the 1970s consists of buildings that now require considerable investment, and many farms face a generation shift. And here's the big challenge. How are we going to create a framework for the next generation of dairy farmers who will commit millions in investments and have confidence that it is possible to live wisely on this for the next 20-30 years, which is the course of such a generation? This is our big challenge. It will have to mean – and I think it's right to be so honest, even though it's never been good Latin in agriculture to talk so honestly about it – that it's not possible to build on a structure based on 13-14 dairy cows, which we have today. Those who are going to build and invest in a new generation of milk production will probably need a higher production volume. This means that quotas need to be transferred to fewer farmers, and that is enough to be this spring's major agricultural policy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e314	It is clear that the Minister of Agriculture now intends to facilitate a very strong structural change in Norwegian agriculture. We've been given the signal that tax should be one of the main instruments of next year's agricultural agreement. It was clarified by the last year's budgetary procedure, when it was cut 300 million. on the current year's agricultural agreement in relation to last year's. When the Minister of Agriculture places such emphasis on recruitment as he does, and in addition intends to use taxes as an instrument to increase incomes in agriculture – although we know that in a recruitment phase, low incomes are rare in the tax position, and that it can be many years before becoming so, among other things. In view of what the Minister of Agriculture now says, large investments available at the time of a generation change — can the Minister of Agriculture then respond to what he sees as just a tax as a recruitment tool to strengthen the interest in taking over farm use, when it will be years before tax intervention takes effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e321	I do not agree that the Minister of Agriculture here facilitates strong structuralisation in milk production. It's like if we don't do anything, if we just let what happens now, it's going to be a lot of closures in the future, because many in the next generation won't see it as possible to go on new investments. It is this challenge that we have to face with politics, and a realistic policy, in order to create a future and optimism for the considerable number of farmers scattered throughout the country who are still going to be involved in milk production. So the government has said that we want to use tax as an instrument also in terms of income. We are now working on this and have the ambition to advance ahead of the agricultural negotiations for spring and later for the Stortinget, in the hope of obtaining a majority in favour of such a solution. We think that is absolutely necessary for several reasons. This is an industry that receives significant transfers. At the same time, we know — the last figures we know are from 1999 — that of 67,000 use in Norway, there are about 16 000 who do not have a taxable profit at all. I don't think it's just the founders, it's probably the ones who use a system that doesn't make any profit. Using some of the transfers to tax relief will provide cost-effectiveness by making sure that the income is greater than the cost and that it can have a beneficial effect on agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e328	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e332	The Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party reacted strongly to the fact that the Workers' Party would not follow the agreement on the agricultural notification when it came to income development. Some of our protests were that the average farms producing milk in Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland would not get the income we had said they would get. Now it sounds to me like the Council of State Sponheim says he doesn't think it's important that they get it either. In the nations a few days ago, what we thought was confirmed that the income of agriculture in the two states is going down more strongly than elsewhere. The State Secretary of the Council said it seemed something dramatic, and that we had to do something about it. Is the Council of State disagreed with what the Secretary of State said in the nation two days ago, that this was a development that one would not continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e339	For many years, the representative Morten Lund and I and many other representatives in this room have been involved in the development of incomes in agriculture, and there have been many good formulations. I know that no one has been able to deliver the results, because there are some strong forces around this that are much stronger than the target formulations that you could have managed to get through big messages and other things. And then I think we're going to go from here and forward by bringing some kind of realism into this. What is needed in order to obtain self-employed workers, as farmers are, an opportunity to raise more income? That's what the government has done. A significant part of the resources used to generate agricultural incomes are locked up in milk production, which has been regulated for almost 20 years now, and which makes it the main production in Norwegian agriculture that has not been involved in so much of the efficiency and development that has taken place in other areas, such as agriculture. in the case of pig production where there has been an adventurous trend. In any case, the Government wants to invite the Storting to participate in shaping an agricultural policy that not only has fine target formulations but can actually provide income opportunities for those who will be in the agricultural industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e346	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e349	We have a strong centralisation in this country, and figures that we have just received show that there is a strong centralization in agriculture. The contribution to agriculture in central areas such as Oslo and Akershus has increased by almost 50 p.p. over the past five years, while transfers to agriculture in Finnmark, Tromsø and Sogn and Fjordane either stand on the ground or have a decline. Is the Minister of Agriculture satisfied with the fact that there is a significant centralisation in agriculture, where the central strut of the country actually receives more of the transfers, while those who are struggling with the decline in settlement are receiving less of the transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e356	It is my opinion that the main reason why we have such an ambitious agricultural policy in Norway, and that the Norwegian people choose to use as much of the common resources to maintain an agricultural sector of an extent that we have, and that we want, is precisely the rationale for regional policy. If we don't make sure we have an agricultural policy all over the country, it's not a political basis either, I think, to maintain an ambitious agricultural policy. That's my vision, and that's my ambition. In all debates on rural policy and the relocation of state institutions to other major cities, which are, as it were, a little bit of what the regional policy debate is about, it would be natural for an agricultural minister to think that it is precisely those who live and use the land scattered and who represent the real edges, for which the actual district policy is for. And it's the Government's ambition that we should be able to maintain a spread of agricultural production at least at the level we have today, even if we want to experience a rationalization in the individual districts. Perhaps in the future it will rather shine in a slightly larger building that has a future ahead of it, than in many small ones that are about to collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e363	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e366	It must be clear to everyone and everyone in this House that the agricultural sector needs to be rationalised, streamlined and made more competitive over the coming years. If we are unable to reach a decision in this Chamber, international bodies such as the WTO will decide for us. Subsidies will be reduced, for example: export subsidies, and changes in customs-based protection, will force themselves. Governments were involved in the milk sector, the most well-regulated of all agricultural sectors and the most expensive — about. 6 billion kroner, and in the evening post today we read that Q dairies have difficulty connecting primary producers in milk production. Will the Council of State do something to liberalize the milk quota system, so that we get a certain level of competition, so that Tine does not have an approximate monopoly with 99,6 pst. control of all milk?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e373	Let me first say that we live in a country far north, where the Lord of Spring has made it so that it's only 3 pst. of the area which is agricultural area and only 1 pst. which may be used for food grain. And it's only the last few generations that we've been able to feed well in this country, so we need an agricultural policy that's adapted to Norway's special situation. For example, most European countries have 60–80pst. of its area as an agricultural area under better climatic conditions, so we need a special Norwegian agricultural policy that takes care of this vulnerable agriculture. It is interesting to see that, in terms of the development of the debate with our neighbouring countries, not least with the EU, and in international forums, Norway is more and more in agreement with the EU in its agricultural policy perspective, in view of the fact that agriculture is fulfilling more and more important tasks than just trade policy. This showed, for example: the WTO negotiations. Q daisies are in place, fortunately. We've got the first little competition. I think we should be happy about that. Everybody's doing better. The Q-meieries must now make sure to compete for the primary producers, and as I said in a previous answer: this spring's major agricultural policy debate is how we can soften the marketing of milk quotas to ensure that those who are going to be in milk production can have a basis for investing in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e380	Eirin Fallet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e383	I link my follow-up question to this with recruitment in agriculture. The Council of State has repeatedly mentioned the possibility of using foreign labour in Norway. Yesterday we had a meeting with Hedmark Bondelag, who was concerned about the labour force on farms. They had good experience with seasonal workers from abroad, and my question is: Is it possible for the Council of State to open up, possibly extend, the possibility of seasonal workers for agricultural use? Is this perhaps a matter with which the Council of State will proceed?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e390	I can assure the representative that if there is something the Council of State is concerned about both in the field of agriculture and in the development of Norwegian society in general, then there is access to the labour force in the future, and we need to go outside the EEA area to provide Norwegian industry and, in and of course, the entire Norwegian society with the labour force we need, including in the public sector and definitely in agriculture. It is true that if we were to have only the domestic labour supply, the coming years, and natural recruitment, the whole growth would have to be used in the care sector, and business would be very suffering. So this is going to be our challenge. I think it must be important to be able to distinguish between what on the one hand is our refugee and asylum policy, which is a commitment we have, and what is an active recruitment of labour that we in Norway need, and which is also good for those who come here. I can assure the representative that this is the Minister for Agriculture's concern. Agriculture depends entirely on both direct labour and on the employment of Norwegian society from outside, so that the pressure on the labour force of agriculture does not increase. The biggest competitive face of agriculture is the struggle for labour more than the struggle for international policies, trade regimes and what it may be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e398	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e401	I have a question for the Minister of Education. Last November, the Norwegian authorities received a reply from the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, that the arrangement whereby three professorates of the University of Oslo are to be reserved for qualified female applicants is contrary to the EEA Agreement. The government of Stoltenberg signaled that the Norwegian authorities maintained their policy in a previous response to ESA. What does the Council of State intend to do in this specific matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e408	I cannot give a final answer to that at this stage. We have a three-month deadline to give feedback. We are currently dealing with the matter in the Department, and it is also a matter that it is natural for the Government to discuss. It won't be long before I can give a final answer to this, but I can't do it right now. What is clear is that at this point we are being challenged in two areas. One is that there is a serious underlying problem in the sector that a very small number of these positions are occupied by women. It's important to get this proportion of women up. This can be done by the measures we are talking about here, by some kind of quota measures or by reserving positions for women. However, it is clear that incentives can also be used in other areas. In addition, Norway is being challenged in terms of our legislation. This applies to both the law of higher education and, to a certain extent, to the equal opportunities law, or at least to the practice of the equal opportunities law. I will be able to explain very soon how the Government will follow up on this, but at this stage it is a little early. We are not yet done dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e417	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that this is a fundamental issue which also has a significant impact on gender equality policy in Norway. We know what the situation is with regard to female professors. The share is only 12 pst. – a figure reported by the Equality Centre is valid for both 2000 and 2001. There is therefore no doubt that we have a very clear challenge at this point. When the University of Oslo itself so clearly wants to address this problem – I know and understand that the government has to discuss it, but now we are in a situation where the deadline is getting out – I think it will be natural and of course that one is very firm on the decision of the previous government and actually shows some muscles, and if necessary this case brings the courts to justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e426	The most important thing is maybe not to show muscles, but to get results. I'm aware that the number of female professors is small – 13 pst, after I've been reported. But when I first stand here in a dialogue with the representative of Bekkelem Orheim, I might be allowed to add something about equality. In my previous work in the NHO, we also had many debates on the proportion of women in government in Norwegian companies, a share that is also very low. Now we're discussing the proportion of female professors, which is very low. What I am even more concerned about in the sector for which I am now responsible is the high proportion of women in the rest of the education system, in primary education, i.e. in primary and secondary schools, who are in the process of being totally feminized. Since both the representative Bekkelem Orheim and I are concerned about equality, I think we should sometimes also shift focus and take an interest in it, because here I think some of the germ of the problem lies. The reason why we have problems at higher levels is that there is such a gender-segregated labour market elsewhere, for example. meeting children in kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e433	It's impossible to follow up, is it, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e438	The President will allow himself to recall, as the National Assembly is obviously currently especially concerned with muscles, that they are primarily not available for display, but for use. Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e443	I can't see that it's quite right that these problems exist in primary and secondary education, because it's a fact that there's now a majority of women among the students in higher education. It is therefore not the recruitment of the academic environment that is the problem in relation to equality at universities and colleges. It's the recruitment of senior management positions at universities and colleges that's the problem. When 1 in 9 professorates are obsessed with women, it must be quite absurd for all the female students in higher education to meet a reality that belongs to the past. It's calculated that if natural development were to continue as today, it might go far into the next century before we have a balanced balance between men and women in the professorates. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What will the Council of State – in addition to putting in place quota measures – do to remedy this situation in higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e450	I totally disagree with the representative, Giske, that the highly gender-based labour market we have, which is one of the world's most gender-based labour markets, does not affect development higher up in society, whether we can use that expression in terms of leadership. I feel quite convinced of that. When children meet role models, including: in kindergarten and school, which gives such a one-sided picture of what men do, and what women do, it also affects attitudes, choices of skills and education, and the extent to which they apply for leadership positions and have real ambitions for it. But I agree with the representative, Giske, that we have to – that is the underlying theme here – also find other measures to recruit women for top positions in the sector. The reason for this is that no matter what the Government had to choose to do about the matter in question, it is not certain that it will come forward, and then we also need other measures to recruit more women. I would like to point out that we are going to present a big message to spring on the recruitment of scientific personnel for higher education. Gender issues will also be addressed as an essential element.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e459	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e462	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Israel went to action in Gaza last week to stop, among other things. smuggling of weapons. The U.S. Secretary of State called the action a self-defense action. At home, the Minister of Foreign Affairs went out and criticized Israel in strict order, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was going to discuss whether Norway should respond to Israel as a punishment for the action in Gaza. The action mentioned by Israel is not to be defended in any way, and there is a debate within the Israeli Government whether this was correct. But we have now experienced almost daily terrorist acts from the Palestinian side, as well as attempts to smuggle large-scale weapons to the Palestinian territories have been revealed. This has been criticised by the Norwegian authorities, but I have not experienced any comments from the Norwegian side as a result of these actions. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Norwegian reactions to the Palestinian authorities to the terrorism that originates from their territory are as natural as reactions to Israel for their action in Gaza?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e472	I am regularly subjected to two types of criticism in the Middle East. One is that I am not critical enough of Israel. The second is that I'm not critical enough of Palestine. It's a criticism that I can understand in many ways, because that's the basis for correcting criticism both ways. What I must be very clear, however, is that it is now very important to break the spiral of violence. That means we've been very clear in relation to the Palestinians, in relation to Arafat. Morten Höglund will probably remember that in the whole of December we were very clear that now Arafat had to do what he could to keep the violence under control. And the pressure that the outside world then put on him was that many people thought unreasonable, because they said that Arafat did not have so much control that it was reasonable to put pressure on him. We did it anyway, and we got Arafat's speech on December 16, which was a very clear signal to the Arab-speaking people – the speech was given in Arabic. After that, there was a significant decrease in the acts of violence, and that is very important. But at the same time, it is important to show restraint on the Israeli side and break the spiral of violence, and so I have also been critical of the countermeasures that the Israelis have taken. I have e.g. have been very critical of all that is involved in holding back funds, and of humiliating self-government, as was done by refusing Arafat to go to Bethlehem. The purpose of this is to try to help mitigate violence and unrest and to get the parties back to work under the Tenet Plan and to implement the confidence-building measures proposed by the Mitchell Commission. Once it has been put in place, yes, it is possible to move on to talk about substance. And that's why I'm afraid in my future work, too, I'm going to be shot from both sides of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e479	I thank you for the answer, although I felt that I was not getting an answer to what I was really asking about. But to follow up a little bit: Israel and its people are now experiencing time and again acts of terror that are striking strongly. It creates fear and insecurity, and you want to do something about it. Similarly, on 11 September, the United States experienced a massive terrorist attack, and large parts of the world, including Norway, supported armed action to crush the terrorists behind these acts. In principle, then, I would ask whether the Foreign Minister agrees that the same right that the United States had to defend itself against terrorism after 11 September must also apply to Israel in relation to Palestinian terrorism, without therefore defending abuses against innocent people and forms of collective punishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e488	It was not my intention to talk me away from the question, but I understood it so that Höglund was concerned about whether I had put sufficient searchlights on the terror in the Middle East that came from the Palestinian side. I strongly believe that the search light we put on it at the very critical time in December – when we almost unilaterally set the light that way – was correct and important. I fully agree that it must be distanced from and struck down on terrorism of all kinds. One of the reasons Norway, on my advice, abstained from voting for the famous Security Council resolution was that it was not strong enough when it came to the terrorist attacks that had taken place. I have no doubt that we have been very strong on the issue of terrorism. That you have the right to defend yourself is also quite clear. But at the same time, it's clear that you have to defend yourself in such a way that you don't start a spiral of violence, but you can break it, and that's the message we've given.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e495	We're going to go on to the next main question, and after the regulation on the oral question time schedule, it's probably going to be the last main question in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e498	I would like to ask the Minister of Education and Research a question. According to NIBR's report on the hospital settlement, county councils lack almost 2 billion kroner after the hospitals were transferred to the state, because the state has not cleaned up financially afterwards. It's the county hospitals that have made up the deficit, not the high schools, but it's the high schools that now have to be buffered and take the economic loss. The results won't wait. According to the NRK a few days ago, Süd-Trøndelag County has decided that very few privatists will have to take the exam or that the exam fee will double. My question is: is the Minister concerned about this development? What will the Minister responsible for higher education in Norway do to address this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e509	It is right that I am responsible for education policy. But we are well in touch here in the area of municipal economics, an area for which the Minister of Municipal Affairs also has a considerable responsibility. Of course, the government is responsible for everything. I believe that the state has cleaned up separately. Municipalities and county councils that school owners are responsible for primary and secondary education, but it is clear that the government follows closely the situation in Kommune-Norway. It is especially by two crossroads that one assesses the situation. It is when the annual budgets are presented and when the budgets are revised. In this respect, of course, the local economy will also be a topic in the discussions of the Government, and also in the proposals we are making. Are I concerned about the state of Norwegian school or in secondary education? Yeah, I can always be worried. What we know about Norwegian school is that there are great variations. There are considerable variations in, for example: construction. There we have now put in place a state loan scheme that I'm very excited to see the exploitation of, because here we might get an upgrade of construction. And then I'm very concerned about the variations we see in the content. Here we try to improve the quality through different types of action. But I don't think we'll ever get in the situation that municipalities and county councils say they're brilliantly satisfied with the resource framework conditions they have, and that there's nothing more they could want the state to do. It'll probably always be that you could want more resources. But I think we also have to be concerned about system changes and changes that go beyond money usage itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e518	I would first like to thank you for your answer. If the minister doesn't intervene, the offer in high school will be further impaired, I'm afraid, with the closure of the line school and of schools. I am particularly concerned about the consequences it will have for the cost-intensive lines, like the professional lines. The responsibility for ensuring education in our modern community of competences lies, I believe, with the Minister of Education. Will the Minister intervene and address the quality and capacity requirements of high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e527	I find no reason to anticipate the events now. Well, there might be some horrors, some threats, but now we'll see how this develops. I'll draw a little parallel. The other day, we sent out what we had to do in terms of withdrawing the State grant for parts of the landline offer, as a result of a cut that happened here in Stortingen during the budgetary procedure. There has been some noise around this in the public debate, but there are now some signs that county municipalities may be able to push these offers further. We offered to withdraw the state grant where the cost was the least. And the signals we're now given that the county councils may be able to see themselves able to push the offers forward, show that it might be possible to give a different priority if you really prioritize school and education. I want municipalities and counties to give high priority to education, and I hope that the county council will now get a greater incentive to do so when this becomes a very important area of activity for the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e536	We were a little late at the start of the meeting today. That means that within the regulational clock time, we can have space for one more main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e539	I'll ask you a question to Clmet. An OECD study shows that the attitudes of 13-year-olds in relation to the choice of occupations put Norway at the top in terms of gender differences and occupational choices. Professor Svein Sjøberg of the University of Oslo says that the same trend is for older young people. In view of the fact that Norway has the sexiest labour market throughout the OECD, as mentioned by the Council of State, this is an unfortunate and worrying development. There have been signs that the current government, among other things, is will strengthen Norwegian education and mathematics education. My question is: What is the strategy of the Council of State to strengthen the gender perspective in Norwegian schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e548	It is true that the representative is aware that in recent times considerable differences have been revealed in Norwegian schools, both in terms of professional skills and in terms of gender differences. It is in fact linked to the theme we were discussing in a previous round, that gender segregation and gender sharing in the Norwegian labour market are large. We see that this is going to happen again when we ask about students' interests, educational and professional choices. What can this get off of? I believe that, among other things, come from the sex-shared labour market children and young people in kindergarten and in school. I think it's very important to recruit more men for the teaching profession, so that eventually it doesn't just become women who are in the teaching profession. We're going to bet on it. We're about to launch a recruitment campaign for the teaching profession, and we're going to focus it on men, and in particular on minorities, as we'd like to get into school. Of course, this does not just keep up with campaigns. I think it's important to upgrade this profession in many ways. It can be upgraded through higher pay with more individual assessments, but it can also be upgraded by making education more important, better and more interesting, and communicating the importance of this profession. We present a big message about teacher training this spring. Then we're going to make greater demands on the content of teacher training, and I hope that those who are undergoing teacher training, the teacher's college, will also take the education more seriously. There are some reports that suggest that less time is spent on teacher training than is spent on many other vocational training courses. I believe that gender equality is to be strengthened, not only is it about teaching students or advice, but it also needs to be demonstrated in practice. This will include, inter alia: depending on the composition of the teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e560	The Stoltenberg government made sure that a new equality counsellor was created for primary, secondary and adult education. This guide provides a number of examples of how students can work actively with gender equality. In other words, we have the tool, but I am not sure how much this work is prioritised in a hectic school day. My follow-up question will be: How will the Council of State follow up this guidance work?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e567	The school has a lot of tasks, and one of them is to teach and use tools in gender equality. I have no reports that indicate that this work is down-prioritized. It is possible that this should also be prioritised, but I take a general reservation against saying it like that without going into it more closely. It is because a lot of people want to be targeted at the school all the time to keep putting more subjects, topics and awareness-raising work into school. And then maybe it'll be too much. But it is clear that this is an important communication of values and attitudes. I will nevertheless come back to practice. When it is so that approx. 50 pst. of the teachers who teach mathematics in primary school, have zero weights in mathematics, and we have a very high proportion of female teachers in primary school and know that women and girls have more negative attitudes to mathematics, so you can imagine that the practice that students meet in school may be with teachers who have not chosen mathematics and who are not so interested in mathematics, also affects their professional skills and choices in the school system. We also have to work on that, even if it's a longer-term job.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e574	The President understands this so that the recruitment efforts of the teaching profession will focus specifically on men and other minorities. The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e581	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Development, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 20. Question 8, from the representative of Marit Arnstad to the Minister for Fisheries, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e598	‘There has been a debate on the rules of the game in the context of a possible new referendum on EU membership. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed his wish for a referendum prior to the government sending an EU application. What is the Foreign Minister's reason for proposing a different procedure from that in 1972 and 1994, and will the Minister of Foreign Affairs undertake to hold a referendum after the outcome of the negotiations is known?'
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e605	It is obvious that the rules of the game must be clear before a new referendum is started. In this way, we have time for reflection and debate. I would like to remind the representative Haga that Norwegian EU membership is not on the Government's agenda. My contribution to the debate is based on the general view that any Norwegian government should be sure to have the support of the Norwegian people before deciding to send a new application for EU membership to Brussels. The conduct of an advisory referendum prior to any new application may be a way of ensuring this. In the light of two lost referendums, it will give weight to the application. I have also said that there is a clear advantage to a referendum even at the end of negotiations, without being definite on it. I see that there are different views in the debate, but I expect that we will be able to find a procedure that will be able to gather most. I think it's a point not to lock itself, not least because we have time, and therefore I'm not adding up to commit in either direction. There is no need for that; I think the debate should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e618	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that EU membership is not on the agenda of the Government, but I should have liked to have seen that the Foreign Minister had also committed himself to a referendum after a negotiated outcome. I would think it would be in everyone's interest that people had the best possible basis to decide on such an important issue as whether or not Norway should be notified into the EU. And a best position to take a decision about it will have when you have a factual basis to deal with. It won't have if you only have a referendum in advance where you just ask if we're going to apply, or we're not going to do it. We know that in 1994, it was very important that we actually had knowledge of the negotiations. A bad agreement on fisheries and agriculture has taken many sides. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is then – and as an introduction to the question, I just have to say that for many of us, it seems that yes-pages are looking for ways to get the margins on their side to get this rebellious people into the EU – if the Minister for Foreign Affairs can see that changes to the procedures can reduce the legitimacy of any referendum. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e625	The number's exceeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e628	Many of the considerations that Haga's representative is making, I have no objection. They have in themselves been the background that I consider it a clear advantage that we also take a referendum in retrospect. But I think it's true to say that this debate is well out early. This is probably going to be many more years. But it is useful to have an ongoing debate, and if you want to have a debate, there is no point in all the actors in that debate locking themselves. So I'm open to many points of view, not least that Haga's representative says. I agree that parts of the rules should be clarified very early. One of the most important game rules I think we should agree on is the fact that the big business representatives should commit themselves to following the people's will and not use their'membership' in the Storting to veto this. At that point, I would like there to be a broad agreement to commit on that basis, but it might be too much to send that challenge out.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e635	Now I have the pleasure of asking today, and we can come back to that question. The Vice-President of the Right, Inge Wohnning, President-in-Office of the Council, has expressed, among other things: in the news of Athens, where I also participated, that a referendum on whether to apply will be sufficient, because there is so little to negotiate about. And that is an interesting reasoning because it underlines the fact that the EU is not only expanding, but that the deepening of cooperation is at least as rapid. Wages and salaries think that the 'yes' side tends to be of little concern, namely that the deepening of cooperation leads to the EU moving more and more towards a federation, and there is less and less room for national adaptation. And my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with his Vice-President that the Union has now become so extensive that it will not really be important to negotiate if a new round of negotiations is to begin?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e644	The President is very excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e647	This is a case where it's very interesting to pass the speech through the president, but I'm going to expect it to go through the president without a filter. The point is that my Vice President and I probably agree with what is the main point here, namely that the matter will probably be so well informed during the debate that you will have an overview of it already at the first referendum. At the moment you see a significantly different situation, that there is a need for a second round, and the question is, of course, how many special conditions Norway will be able to achieve in the meantime. There's a lot of discussion about it. I want to maintain that I think we are now at the stage where we are far ahead of the need to lay down the rules, but I think it would be right to let the debate go. I notice that Åslaug Haga is largely using the procedural debate to talk about realities, but I think it is very important that we talk about procedures when it comes, and that we do not now lock ourselves in a debate that will come at a significant later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e655	I have the following questions for our Minister of Finance: ‘The customs authorities in Eastfold made record seizures in 2001 of 97 000 litres of alcohol while seizures of doping drugs, ecstasy and cocaine were taking place. No major alcohol seizures have been made since the ban period. Among other things, because of high alcohol charges, international gangs control parts of the smuggling and it may be the same as smugglers of alcohol, drugs and people. How will the Government address the problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e664	2001 seizures show that the customs and levy rate seized record quantities of spirits, cocaine, ecstasy and doping drugs at border crossings. Seizures of currencies also increased significantly. At the same time, less heroin and amphetamines were seized in 2001 than in recent years. There is also a decrease in the seizures of cigarettes and meat products. The number of seizures varies considerably from one year to the next, and is among other things: influenced by large individual seizures. At the same time, cross-border traffic has increased significantly in recent years, and this will continue in the years to come. In particular, there is a large increase in Eastfold. Increased traffic increases the risk of smuggling significant quantities of drugs and alcohol into the country. Experience also shows that much of the smuggling is done by organised criminals. The cooperative government will also ‘reduce excise duties on goods subject to border trade’, as stated in the Government’s political basis, the so-called Sem declaration. This has already been followed up for the current year by reducing alcohol charges by 15 pst. Fees for wine and other alcoholic goods have fallen by 5 pst. Further reductions in the level of charges in Sweden may increase the pressure on the high level of charges imposed on goods placed on the market in Norway. We will also consider further reductions in the levies on these goods in the years to come in relation to the annual budgets. In any case, it will be a major challenge for the customs and tax haven in Norway to prevent illicit cross-border trade and, in particular, to expose the profit-driven smuggling of alcohol and drugs. Criminal organisations often operate in large geographical areas. International cooperation in customs and excise duties will therefore be further emphasised, not least with customs authorities in the typical countries of production and transit, and within the Nordic region. The newly established Europol cooperation will also be emphasised.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e675	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as he says, that something has gone up and something has gone down. But what is relatively unique on a one-year basis and over time is that alcohol smuggling is increasing. It is actually coming out of control by the Customs Department, and all the specialists in the Customs and Charges Directorate say that it is the sky-high fees that make it attractive to smuggle. Even though we've got a reduction of 15 pst. on alcohol and 5 pst. on other alcoholic products, so don't mongoose it. And we know what will happen in our neighbouring countries towards 2004. Now we have a Right-Maintained Government. I guess it doesn't want us to continue to have Europe, maybe the world's highest alcohol charges when it gets these negative consequences with a record smuggling of alcohol to Norway with the negative consequences it entails. I would like to have an answer as to whether the Right now wants to push further, so that we not only get cosmetic fee changes, but something that really matters in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e686	I could be tempted to say first that the cosmetic fee has at least been removed. It's an example of something that's important to remove completely as well. Now I am not going to emphasize the same reasoning in relation to alcohol taxes. The representative asks how the government's internal work at the 2003 budget is going on. That's basically what I'm going to leave to history. The R-notes become available, perhaps, after some time, and I also have no intention of drawing up the conclusions on what the alcohol tax will be in 2003, in the budget that the Stortinget will then be receiving. But what I want to stress is that no matter how you turn around and turn around, it will be necessary for the customs tariff in any country to cooperate across borders to combat the international bonds that are increasingly operating this traffic, whether it be alcohol, various forms of drugs or other goods. And the international cooperation strengthened by the membership of Europol, which has been facilitated by our membership of Schengen, I believe that the representative is also fully supportive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e693	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. Clearly, international cooperation is important. But what the customs department itself says, is that today the criminals are winning this fight because there are such enormous possibilities of profit. There are numbers so high that we have a hard time understanding it. So they're on the waving front, even though they're trying to get into international cooperation to break crime. What I had in my main question, that it's partly the same as smuggling drugs and people, makes this problem even more serious. Does this not mean that the measures and instruments we can easily put in place, namely reducing taxes, are more important when we need to see them in a more comprehensive context?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e702	As I said in my main response, the fees are of course important. In the range between prices in one country and another, to the extent that it is made up of charges, and it does so to a large extent, it is where the profit lies. And it is in the high profits that the incentive for crime is also lying. It's elementary. But I think it has to be stated that, as the representative was involved, the combination of different types of cross-border smuggling, including human smuggling, is to be combated by hungry gangs – to say the least – it has to be done through international cooperation. Cross-border spot checks are not the most effective. And in relation to human smuggling, it is the instrument established through Schengen cooperation, perhaps the most important thing we have to get illegal immigration and human smuggling alive.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e712	‘The international radio broadcast, according to the frequency list, would be valid until 30 March 2002. However, the consignment ended with a short period of time on 31 December 2001. Nordics abroad are now dependent on, for example: access to the Internet for information on Norwegian conditions. This creates problems for many elderly people who live in warmer areas in winter and who lose their daily newscasts. What will the Council of State do to ensure that they receive daily Norwegian news?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e719	This was up in question time a week ago. As I said then – and as I would like to repeat today – it is within the NRK’s powers to terminate the broadcast abroad. I also said last week that I am not going to take any initiative towards the NRK in this matter. Nordics abroad therefore need to obtain new and information from Norway in another way. The representative Evje also gives an indication of the frequency list. This is purely technical information on what frequencies can be used to receive broadcasts in different parts of the world. Of course, such a list is not something that binds the NRK to actually send.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e728	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. Now my question is not shaped in such a way that I ask the Council of State to enter into the independent decisions of a company with respect to its own operations. I'm asking her to think something further about this, because it doesn't have to be done by the NRK. Denmark's Radio today sends news broadcasts via Norwegian channels that reach exactly the receivers that I am talking about here. It could perhaps be possible to cooperate with Denmark's Radio to give pensioners the opportunity to hear Norwegian news via radio. That's one example. Furthermore, we have a number of other media, radio channels and companies, which also share news, so the Council of State could think so creatively that maybe some of these could be taken over. I want to know if she can go into such a thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e735	Now there is one option for these users to disappear, i.e. the sending abroad, while today we have many other ways for them to get in the same way, including new ones. through the Internet, which has been well developed. So today there's a bunch of people who live abroad. There are also several of our newspapers that offer subscriptions to those who live outside the country. So you actually get e.g. pensioners who live in warmer areas, as the representative Ursula Evje points out, the chance to take in new ones from Norway. I can evaluate the suggestions that Ursula Evje points to. I haven't taken any stand for it. What I've taken my first stand for is what I can do to the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e744	Then I have only one small thing on my mind: these Norwegian pensioners have radio and television at home in their homes and apartments in Norway, and on the basis of that, they pay the full license fee for a service that they cannot possibly use when the foreign broadcast is cut out. I wonder if the Council of State is willing to go into a discount scheme just for these in terms of the license fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e749	No, it's a thought I haven't had at all, and I don't think I'm going to think so much more about it. If we're going to start differentiating the license fees compared to how long people live abroad or live at home, it's going to be a terrible bureaucratic system. And as I know the Progress Party, they are against bureaucratic systems that are hard to operate. So I think it's easier for those who want to live in Norway and want television and radio to pay this license. And then they get to accept the news they get through the Internet, newspapers and other ways, those that for different reasons are so lucky to get a job abroad part of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e759	‘The custody regime, which is intended to replace the hedging institution, has entered into force from the end of the year. At the same time, several newspapers report critical medication for sexual offenders under protection. To what extent are public aid and criminal services equipped to cope with the reform, including: Are mental retardants included and are specific measures taken by the Council of State in the context of the implementation of the detention reform?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e766	Let me first, with the President's permission, give a little correction to an answer I gave to the representative, Mr. Waksdal, last week's Question Time. It was about police guidelines on missing persons, and I came to say that there was a circular on 1 July 2001. The correct date is 11 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e771	Then the president does as in the sport: now we start the stopwatch!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e774	Thank you, President. Facilitating the content of the criminal response to detention is primarily the responsibility of the criminal services. In the main basic documents of the reform, Ot.prp. No 87 for 1993-94 and Ot. pp. No 46 for the 2000 to 2001 entry into force, provided that custody is to be provided with a content other than the reaction hedge. Against this background, criminal services have invested considerable resources to provide adequate compensation for this important group of prisoners at Ila. The Ministry of Justice assumes that the main weight of the custodians must be provided with a safe and well-managed rehabilitation offer at the detention centre. The group of custodians will form a complex group consisting of everything from people who in some areas are very resource-intensive to slightly mentally retarded, which the representative Storberget particularly draws up. It is therefore important to make a differentiated settlement offer based on several smaller prison departments. The expansion of detention centres is gradual and the first compartment is planned to be completed on 1 May 2002. In the meantime, Ila has a standby to receive a detention sentence from the Annexet department. The aim is to provide the custodians with a complete 24-hour service where behavioural, labour, crime-related and other programme activities, education and various leisure activities are important elements. It is also aimed at further developing programmes aimed at improving the self-confidence and ability of the courts to master their lives. One also wants to be able to work on drug problems and to offer treatment. The staff of the detention centres shall be interdisciplinaryly composed, but the main staff members will be prison officials. Like the custodian, it will also be the ordinary health service responsible for ongoing health care, including diagnosis and prescription of drugs, for custodians. The treating physician will also be bound by the obligation of professional secrecy in relation to this patient group. This implies that it is the health supervisory authorities that have to go in order to assess the medical profession and the medical profession in relation to, for example: such a situation as we have now witnessed at Ila, where a person convicted of sexual assault was prescribed Viagra. In this specific case, the management at Ila has taken up the relationship with the county doctor in Akershus, who has announced a review of the case. As the custodians, the custodians would be a special group of prisoners for very serious matters, such as: serious crimes of violence and morality or fire. At the same time, many of this group of prisoners will have major health problems related to, for example: problems with health and mental health. I recognise that this raises some important issues, both of a security and a principle nature. It is in the interests of health services and criminal services that good ‘driving rules’ are found in the handling of custodial convictions that can ensure both the safety of society and the rehabilitating of sentences. I would like to take an initiative with the Minister of Health with a view to establishing close administrative cooperation between the health services and the criminal services in the treatment of custodians at all levels. Important themes to address in such cooperation will, for example: be the practice of medical prescription, the further development of the content of the storage response and follow-up on release, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e789	I thank you for the answer, which I think is good. This is one of the most important reforms in criminal law, and I hope we can discuss this on a general basis and not every time some kind of unfortunate incident occurs with the custody institution. But what is important to me, and on which I want a confirmation from the Minister of Justice, is precisely the question of whether one now perceives that the scope of resources in relation to the custody system per. In fact, 1 January is sufficient and good enough, especially with regard to the medical and psychological services to be provided to the detainees, because it is, as the Minister of Justice puts it, that there is a system here which should actually be different from that of the old insurance institution. My follow-up question is therefore: Is the range of resources sufficient, and especially in relation to medical and psychological assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e800	The central question to the representative is whether criminal custody is equipped to receive the persons sentenced to detention at Ila. To this I will reply that with the expansion rate that has been provided for the conversion of Ila, we believe that we can meet the needs that arise. In this respect, it can be pointed out that the criminal justice system is already responsible for the type of person who is believed to be in custody. As regards administrative cooperation, which is also at the heart of the representative’s question, the Ministry of Justice has contacted the relevant authorities, such as health authorities, school authorities, etc., in developing the offer of detention sentences. Administrative cooperation is also referred to. But I'm the first one to admit that we can stand in difficult situations. In Norway, we are gradually in the right and important bet, among other things. In psychiatry, we set out to find solutions, and we know that these are the good practices that often create the solutions. I know that the Minister of Health is prepared to discuss such questions on a principle basis, and so am I. The purpose of this is to find the right solutions for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e807	I would like to thank you for the answer, which, to my mind, was also good because it was acknowledged. In fact, I believe that routines are often as important as resource supply, and especially in relation to medical care. Finally, I would like to bring forward the group that might become the most heavily involved in this legislation, those who are not going to be in a detention centre, but who are going to be transferred to mandatory mental health protection – convictions in relation to being unpredictable, for example. mental retardation. Is the Minister of Justice of the opinion that the work is on track in relation to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e814	I just have to admit that it is a relationship that I personally have not checked after I became the Council of State, so I have to be allowed to come back with an answer to that. But with my knowledge of the Minister of Health and his conscientious follow-up of all the actions that have to do with mental issues, I'm going to assume that it's in common. However, I will not answer until I have checked it, and will come back in an appropriate way to the representative of Storberget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e823	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘After the state took over the hospitals from 1 January 2002, responsibility for operation, functional distribution and resource management has been transferred to the various regional health care agencies. In More and Romesdal, there has been a broad political agreement to maintain the four hospitals in Volda, Ålesund, Molde and Kristiansund. Does health care providers also have authority to lay down hospitals, or is it the Stortinget, and only the Stortinget, which has this authority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e832	The specialist health service shall be under national political control. This implies that the main lines of development will be under the authority of the Storting. The Health Business Act is based on this principle, and the law specifies, among other things. conditions to be determined by the Storting, such as hospital sales. Within the framework of national policy bodies, the legal system is that hospital closure issues can and must be decided by regional health establishments. The question is which body of the undertaking is competent to take such decisions. Initially, the management of the enterprise has been added to the board of directors. It follows from the first paragraph of Section 28 of the Health Business Act, which reads: «The management of the undertaking shall be the responsibility of the management board responsible for the satisfactory organisation of the undertaking's entire business.» Decisions on the corporate structure of health regions and hospital closure are initially taken under the management of the enterprise. However, Section 30 of the Health Business Act provides for: ‘The regional health undertaking’s business meeting shall take decisions on matters which are presumed to be essential to the undertaking’s activities or the achievement of defined objectives or tasks. The same applies to other matters which are presumed to have significant aspects of principle or which are presumed to have significant societal implications.’;» And in Ot.prp. No 66 for 2000-2001 the notes on this provision state: ‘The decision to close a hospital may be an example of decisions to be taken by the enterprise meeting of regional health establishments under that provision.’ Hospital closure is a matter of major importance and affects many people, so that the business meeting of the regional health undertaking must take its decision. Through the annual budgetary proposals and in the national health plans discussed here in the Chamber, the size of the budget will provide a basis for drawing up the policy guidelines for specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e856	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. After the thorough distribution he came with, I interpret the Council of State so that it is entirely possible for the enterprises to decide to lay down a hospital. Not least in my own home country, More and Romesdal, there are different recordings from health care professionals. We have a joint county decision that has said what's on my main question, while the board of Health Nordmøre and Romsdal have made a decision to sort out an alternative that involves a common hospital solution for the North-Møre and Romesdal. I thought it was very important that the Council of State come up with this clarification. The time has come for the board to make a recommendation that it will pass on to the regional government, in the health region of central Norway in this example, and that decision will be taken there. Another thing I find unclear about these health services is the relationship to public health. Not permitted for the government entities to be public?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e869	To the last question, I can answer confirmatoryly: the disclosure law applies to state enterprises. As regards the decision-making authority issue, I have explained the system adopted by the Stortinget and the assumptions underlying the decision in Stortinget regarding the Health Business Act. But let me stress, since it may not have been clear enough, that the question of the possible closure of a hospital in my view and after this system is a matter of importance that needs to be decided in the regional enterprise meeting, and it is as well known to the health minister who is the business meeting. Of course, the Minister of Health will not deny the possibility that there may be such questions that are so fundamental that they should be presented to the Stortinget. But this is the law's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e881	I thank you for your supplementary reply. This means that the board can make financial arrangements that mean closure in practice, and that the Minister of Health can then go into and override what the health care provider recommends. The budget for 2002 provided funds for the opening of a new medical department at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal in Ålesund. There is great uncertainty about the hospital in Ålesund will receive these funds. Even though the Health Sunnmare Board has decided that a new department will open on 1 March, it is crucial for both me and others to know: Who is it that determines here? When a budget decision has been taken by the Storting, shall not the decision of the Storting be implemented? Was it not the Storting that was at least the top authority until 1 January 2002 or could the undertaking in this matter override the decision of the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e890	Let me clarify – since the representative of Överaas had an explanation of my answer that I did not fully recognise in: Questions about the possible closure of the hospital is a matter of importance that needs to be addressed by the corporate meeting. It is the Minister of Health who is the business meeting of the regional health enterprises. So the question of the extension of the medical department in Ålesund. I am familiar with the public debate on this issue, and I would like to stress that, of course, the decision of the Storting is to be implemented. I am not aware of any decision taken in this case. There is a premise in a draft budget by the Stoltenberg Government. That budget premise is communicated to the health business by means of a letter of allocation to the regional health business. Because of the confusion that has arisen, we have taken an initiative from the owner to engage in a dialogue with the regional health company to find out how this is to be resolved in a way that serves the patients in the region and that is consistent with the leadership in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e897	We're now going to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e903	This question, from Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e906	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health, who will answer on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs: «A legislative amendment in 1999 requires social security benefits to be paid to the beneficiary's bank account. The Social Security Office receives account number information from the Tax Directorate and may use it for the transfer of social security benefits without the user's consent. Part of the accounts provided to the social security office are not regular use accounts, but have limitations on the number of withdrawals per person. year, or is intended by the user only for saving. Should the insured person have to accept the use of such accounts by the insured person?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e915	A social security beneficiary shall not be required to accept the use of an account with limitations of collection for the payment of those benefits. According to § 3 of the regulation given on 23 April 1999, the recipient may choose a different payment method when the account has tax limitations. The same applies in other circumstances that make it difficult to use the account as a user account. Nor is it currently the case that the account number obtained from the Tax Directorate can be used without asking the recipient. Before Christmas last year, however, there were legal changes aimed at facilitating this. The assumption is that the tax statement provides information that the account numbers recorded in the Tax Directorate can also be used for social security payments. Rules on the use of account numbers without asking may be given in the current year. For the sake of order, I mention that the recipients can avoid the problem of savings accounts by providing the correct account number when they submit claims for benefits. This is encouraged, and such calls are also given to those who were beneficiaries when the scheme came in 1999. I finally mentioned that the social security scheme under the current rules cannot require a social security beneficiary to create an account, although payment to the account is the most common and I would say the most desirable way of making payments is in today's society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e926	Thank you very much for the answer from the Minister for Health. This seems very positive, because there are actually a number of people, especially the elderly, who want to get social security benefits, as in the past, through giro. Feelings include: the collateral it provides, or you do not have any accounts other than any savings account. So the health minister's answer is uplifting, and I look forward to this being followed up in the future in a real way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e931	Question 6 is being addressed for question 20, and we're now going to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e939	I have the following questions: ‘The size has decided to simplify the procedure for the approval of professional plans and examinations for private colleges. In the case of public higher education institutions, the institution shall adopt the establishment of study offers for up to 3 years. For private colleges, the legislation is still extensive with a long period of procedure. It may continue to take up to one year before authorisation is granted. What initiatives will the Council of State take to simplify the authorisation procedure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e948	I must first of all say it quite natural, namely that the private higher education law provides rules for the examination of applications for which the ministry has to deal. The law's system is that the private higher education provision should be equal or at the same level as studies at higher education institutions. In order to determine whether this is the case, a professional assessment is necessary. The law also requires private higher education institutions to have management systems, syllabus, examination regulations, complaints and admission regulations to be approved by the Ministry. Nevertheless, within the limits set by the law, I am very concerned both with simplifying the procedure and with increased powers for the private universities, as I understand that the representative of Reikham is also. As part of a simpler and thus faster procedure, new guidelines have just been established. These include, inter alia: that higher education institutions which already have the right to study may submit new applications directly to the Secretariat of the Norwegian Network Council instead of going to the Ministry. There is one positive measure. In addition, the private higher education institutions have been given additional powers to make changes to approved studies without having to apply for the agreement of the ministry. In addition to these simplifications, the Ministry will give priority to finalising applications evaluated by the Expert Committee. I am convinced that the changes that have now been made will lead to a substantial reduction in the length of the procedure. I will continue to work with a view to further simplifications and powers for the private universities, and as a step on the way, I will now present in our proposal a legislative amendment for, among other things. opening up some private higher education institutions to obtain institutional recognition. Such approvals will in turn provide the basis for the transfer of increased powers from the Ministry to the College. This is, of course, an action aimed at maximising the equivalence between private and state universities and universities until we have a new, common law for private/state higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e957	I thank you for the answer and feel that this matter is now in relatively good hands. I was a little worried when the council wanted to go considerably beyond what I initially thought. I imagine that there should still be an approval procedure in terms of subjects and examination systems for the private universities. It is important that we see these as a complement to the public institutions and that there must therefore be some kind of authorisation system. It is too extensive a procedure, which takes too much time today. When a user reaches the age of one year for the qualification of a trade, it is unsustainable. I now perceive the Council of State so that we will do something about this. I am pleased, and I feel that it will also be done, so that we get the processing time down. But that there is an authorisation procedure so that we can see this in connection with other offers, especially within the public sector, I think it is important also to underline.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e964	It then sounds as if we would at least go a bit on the way both of us, both of us, the representative of Reikvam and I, in terms of simplification in the procedures and speeding up the procedure. With regard to the forms of approval we are going to have, institutions, subjects, exams, etc., we can come back to that when we are going to deal with the submission of the private higher education law that comes to spring. In addition, I would also like to point out that this year we are going to set up a new accreditation and evaluation body, which will also have a major impact on the quality assurance of our higher education institutions and the offers they offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e979	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e985	‘The fishing leaves reported on 28 December 2001 that several fishermen were allowed to try to qualify for fishing on herring because the message from the Ministry was that fishing in 2001 would not be taken into account in the allocation of quotas. When the regulation for future participation in herring fisheries came into force, it was found that activity until 24 September 2001 was still important. How do the Council of State think that fishermen should take care of the ministry's messages in relation to qualification for fishing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e992	If you want a living coast and a living coastal community, and I do, it is necessary to sew so that the vessels can offer attractive jobs and good conditions. It'll secure the recruitment. If a vessel has to do so, it must also have an acceptable wage. In order to achieve this, it seems necessary to close down several of the important fisheries in Norway. It is so that for each vessel entering a fishing vessel, the income for those already there will go down. If you have completely open fishing, there is a risk that there may be so many vessels in the fishery that there will be too little fish for each vessel, and thus no one will in principle be able to operate economically. This will be enhanced further because the ratio and size of total populations vary from year to year. This year, with good access to resources, a person may experience that it is not so problematic to enter new vessels. But it's going to be more problematic if you look at it in the long run, and in those years when the ratio goes down in total, it's going to exacerbate the situation for absolutely everyone. Therefore, a limitation in the availability at my discretion is necessary to ensure the operational basis for those active in the fisheries, and therefore it is of interest to the fishermen. I see that the Ministry of Fisheries signaled in February 2001 that participation in 2001 would not be a basis for future participation in the Norwegian herring fisheries could have resulted in some, despite very good raw material prices, not participating in herring fisheries in 2001. The Ministry had initially planned to provide the activity in 1998, 1999 and 2000 as a basis for future participation in the fishing activities of the coastal group for Norwegian herring. During the preparation of the hearing note, the industry wanted those who participated in the fisheries for the first time in 2001 to be included in the closed group. If a requested participation in one of the years 1998, 1999 or 2000, about 590 operators would meet the conditions for participation. Figures from the Directorate of Fisheries showed that 40 new vessels were engaged in fishing before 24 September 2001. Since so few had started fishing in 2001, the Ministry of Fisheries has been listening to the signal, and we have set the latest date for participation to the same date as the broadcast of the hearing note on 24 September. 90 vessels engaged in fishing for the first time after 24 September 2001. For vessels which did not participate in fishing before that date, it is open to grant exemptions to vessels which were contracted or which have undergone substantial conversion before 1 September 2001. Derogation will only be granted to those vessels which can demonstrate that herring was intended to be an essential part of the operating base. Until now, 55 applications for a derogation have been submitted to the Directorate. 50 has been processed, 14 have been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1005	I thank you for the answer, but I can't see that the Council answered my question. I'm not going to set the actual value of the connection. After all, it is the closure that creates problems for the ministry in the allocation of allowances and when it comes to determining what are historic rights or not. But I do not take a decision on that in my question. What I'm asking is, is how does the Council of State think that the fishermen are going to deal with the signals coming from the ministry, when the council from the department is so clear that there's no point in trying to process historical dishes to get quota. How does the Council of State think that fishermen should take such a clear signal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1012	As I said in my answer, the signals that came out of the department in February of a year ago may have resulted in some people not participating. But I also explained the process further, which shows that the department has shown a great deal of satisfaction by listening to the signals coming from the fishermen. So we have also opened up a derogation for those who did not participate in the fishing until 24 September 2001. In this way we open up the possibility that those who had intended to participate, but for various reasons could not, because the ship was under construction or refurbishment, be exempted. I think it shows the goodwill of the department and the directorate – to use that concept – that when 55 applications have been received, we have already dealt with 50 and only 14 have been rejected. That means that we've shown a great deal of sympathy, and that we've listened to the fishermen. So I feel that we have dealt well with the signals we have sent out, and the way the fishermen have perceived them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1017	I thank you for your answer. Does it mean that when I read in my local language on 22 December that the department is considering the closure of the coastal fisheries by sea, shack and herring and at the same time states that there is no point in trying to process historical dishes on them in 2002, is there a guarantee from the department that there is no sense for fishermen to process historical dishes in 2002? But without considering the reality of the matter, as I am against it, I am still trying to see the case from the fishermen's point of view, because I realize that it is obviously difficult to close a fish. My other follow-up question – if I may be allowed to do so – is: If the Storting had wanted to have fishing in 2002 counted in relation to historical dishes, does the Council realize that the signals already given by the department actually exclude this possibility, and that the Storting is completely without control here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1026	I would like to stress that my answer was about herring fish, as it was asked. Now other fisheries are being withdrawn – and there are things out there at the hearing – but I have to deal with this issue, namely Norwegian herring. And I stress that the fishing has not been closed in 2001. All the fishermen on page B could therefore participate in the fishing. The Ministry of Fisheries has chosen to follow the advice of the industry and thus opened up the possibility that parts of 2001 could also be used as a basis for participation in the restricted group. So I feel that what is being asked about, we've met to a great extent, and that there's a great deal of understanding in the industry about the way we've handled it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1034	Here it goes from herring to shrimp for the Council of State. I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘In Sørland several persons, both merchants, fish owners and private individuals, have received large fines for having sold and bought shrimps directly from shrimp trawlers. Several fines refused to accept the submissions. The Raw Fish Act provides the officially authorised fish recipients with a monopoly on the placing on the market of fish and shellfish along the Skagerak coast. The need for regulatory changes is striking. Will the Council of State take action to soften the monopoly situation so that the sale of fish and shrimp directly from the boat becomes more modest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1045	Initially, on a general basis, I would like to point out that the circumstances pointed out by the representative Andersen also involve conditions other than infringements of the Raw Fish Act. Circumventions of the legislation lead, for example, to: not be paid the product fee to the Rikstrygdeverket. In the case of illegal marketing, it is imminent to assume that the provisions on allowances could be circumvented as a result of the non-registration of catches. Purchasers of fish are also required to have approved facilities and to be registered in the Register of the Directorate of Fisheries. Ordinary shops will therefore normally not have the opportunity to buy fish directly from fishing boats. This is justified by reasons of hygiene and control. As Minister of Fisheries, I am committed to promoting value creation in the Norwegian fishing industry. The first-hand placing on the market of fish is subject to the Raw Fish Act, which requires that all fish be placed on the market under the control of the fish sales laws. That's the law, and we have to deal with that. In short, the task of the sales teams is to organise the marketing of fish in the best possible way. The system implies that the authorities have little focus on the ongoing implementation of this task. It is therefore the sales laws that have the best knowledge of the local conditions around the coast and can best manage the law based on the intentions of the law. The scheme resulting from the Law on Raw Fish assumes that the sales laws apply their powers in a way that exploits market opportunities while benefiting the industry. The Ministry and I follow the business, and from time to time the Ministry of Fisheries has also intervened and reviewed decisions taken in the Sales Act. We still have that monitoring capability. Another and very important aspect of the raw fish system is the resource control that follows the purchase. The law ensures that all fish traded in the first place are weighed and brought on final note. The closing notes are given to the sales teams, which ensure that the Directorate of Fisheries is provided with the same information. The system implies that the turnover is the main record of the sea extraction. This resource control is invaluable, even for this part of the coast that we are now talking about. It's my impression that the fishermen are satisfied with the current system. According to a recent survey, the majority of purchasers want to keep the raw fish law. I therefore have no intention of changing the raw fish law. On the other hand, this does not prevent us from looking at the law from time to time and adapting it to the extent that development requires. But it's a different discussion than what the specific matter is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1058	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason why I found it right to air this matter with the Council of State is therefore the obvious unfairness that lies in the current fisheries regime in South Africa. Many with me believe that there is something ripping wrong with a code that allows us to use the community's resources on such matters. In my view, the current monopoly of Skagerac fish on the marketing of fish and shellfish in the South is, in principle, hair-removing. These rigid sales regulations seem both unfortunate and irritating, and I would say that closer to a Communist Norway it is probably difficult to reach in 2002. It is an old-fashioned monopoly system that affects both traders and consumers. It should have been the first task of a politician to remove these monopolies. So has it now become good right-wing policy to defend business monopolies and such professional trading privileges that we are talking about here? I'm just wondering. I was surprised by the defensive response the council gave me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1067	Of course, I can't do anything with the surprise. However, it should not be unknown that the raw fish law has also had positive effects and, to a large extent, the fish sales laws are governed by the fishermen themselves. As for the description that now emerges, I don't think it's an opinion shared by people along the coast, but it's probably possible that it can be experienced this way for some people. I maintain that in the Sem Declaration, which underlies the work of this government, we have stated that the Raw Fish Act is and will be an appropriate instrument in the management of fish resources. It gives the sales teams certain rights, but it also gives the fish sales teams significant obligations. And as long as they fulfil these within the meaning of the law and in a smooth enough way, I don't see from the department reason to intervene. But as I said in my first answer, the department has intervened in the practice of the sales teams from time to time. We're ready to do that when it comes to better documented assault than what it's alluded to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1074	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but let me keep going a little bit. In order to protect this unheard monopoly privilege, the people of the fishing monopoly in good old-fashioned KGB style are sneaking around in the bush at the edge of the brow to apprehend the poor fishermen who had to try to take as much as a carrying bag of shrimp ashore on their own brow. So first you have a regular spying device and to monitor where the fishermen sell their catch, and if illegalities are observed, you use police resources on the matter, and eventually the courts get into the picture. This is completely wild, in my view, and I expected that the Council had ordered something to be done. But as usual, there was an upsizing of the existing legislation, and it was a defense of the same legislation. Finally, let me mention that Section 101 of the Basic Law states that restrictions on the freedom of nutrition should not happen to anyone. And if not this matter that we are talking about here, just represents restrictions on nutrition, then I don't know, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1081	I don't want to take part in the somewhat light-wine rhetoric that is being put up here, but I think the representative Andersen overlooks the fact that the handling of the raw fish law, which I was involved in, also has a resource side. I am therefore of those who consider any circumvention of law and regulation relating to resources, such as resource crime and financial crime. It's not going to be familiar with this industry, and I'm afraid that the recommendations that Andersen's representative makes here do not help to reduce the economic and resource crime that it opens up if you don't have control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1086	Question 11 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1092	I ask the following question: ‘The flight route offer from Tromsø to Oslo is significantly weakened by the fact that both SAS and Braathens have cut off their morning routes. This has great consequences for both the Tromsø area and for Finnmark. Could it be appropriate for the Council of State to require companies to have a sufficient number of departures to and from areas of the country where the distances are so large and where there are no alternative travel modes, or what else can the Council of State do to remedy this unsustainable situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1101	I fully agree with the representative Arnesen that the air route offer between Tromsø and Oslo was weakened when both SAS and Braathen cut the morning routes on the route at the turn of the year. I cannot accept such a much worse route program for Tromsø, and therefore for the whole of North Norway. As a result, the Ministry of Transport has been in contact with SAS and has been promised an early solution by providing SAS with a new flight departure on the route during the relevant period of the morning as of 28 January. The fact that the Tromsø–Oslo route had a disproportionately long period of time on the day without air connection, I consider that I was unintentionally on the part of the airlines, which also indicates the willingness to deploy a new flight departure on the route. That is why, in my opinion, there is no reason to impose State obligations on the carriers operating on the main route network in order to ensure a minimum number of departures. However, I want to follow closely the further developments in the matter, because this is of great importance to the people and businesses of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1114	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that the matter now seems to be resolved. But it has to be allowed to ask if the company overview when the route can happen so randomly and to as much damage as the case is here. I wonder if the companies don't understand that that matters to a lot of people and businesses in large geographical areas of our country. Even though this is being corrected, it has already done damage, we need to be aware of that. I would like to ask if the Council of State will take new rounds with the companies to get them to do something about the flight offer internally in North Norway, which is also poorly addressed in relation to the needs of business and citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1123	It may seem a little strange that this situation occurred on this path, but it's probably related to a slightly special situation around the turn of the year. According to SAS, there was no coordination between SAS and Braathen’s ahead of the route routes, and thus they did not know about each other’s schedules. Because the route routes were planned before the purchase of Braathens, such an exchange of information would also be contrary to competition law. That's the explanation why this happened. I am concerned that we should have good air services in this part of the country as well. I'm going to follow closely what's going on on the main route network, which is what we're talking about right now, because we're seeing a competitive situation that's changed compared to the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1130	I would like to thank the Council of State for following up on this. I have to stress that it is not the number of routes alone that is crucial, but the time of day the planes go, so that business and the rest of the population can benefit from the offer and avoid excessive additional costs due to poor scheduling. So I thank the Council of State for the answer and hope that you follow this up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1138	My question to the Council of State is as follows: ‘From spring onwards, Statoil will transfer the transport of propane gas from rail to road through North Trøndelag and parts of Northernland. Large parts of this road billing are very unwell, and in recent years there have been a number of accidents involving car trains here. If accidents were to occur with vehicle combinations carrying propane, the consequences could be dramatic. Will the Council of State take the initiative to continue the transport of propane gas on the railway instead of transferring it on the road?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1147	It is my job to ensure framework conditions in the various transport sectors that lead to a transport distribution that is best for society as a whole. I will therefore continue to work to see if the framework conditions of the sectors are right today, including infrastructure capacity and charging. However, I cannot directly intervene in the freight market by imposing obligations on companies to choose transport solutions. Continuous work is being carried out to improve the road standard for E6 on the route between Trondheim and Fauske. The main projects being carried out on the current Trondheim-Mo route in Rana are the conversion of the road past Steinkjer and the tunnel through Korgfjellet. In addition, a number of smaller measures will be implemented in Northern Ireland with a view to wide-ranging extension and improvement of the curve to improve the accessibility of heavy traffic and thus reduce the risk of accidents. CargoNet, the new freight company of the NSB, has informed that the transport operations to which the representative Ryan refers have so far come from Statoil’s gas facilities in Sweden. However, Statoil has decided to change its internal logistics, which means that they will take the gas from other plants and have a buffer northeast of Trondheim. In line with St.meld. No 48 for 2000-2001 on NSA BA’s activity 2001-2003 is the combined transport CargoNet’s strategy. According to the company, the Norwegian industrial structure does not provide the basis for a general offer of conventional wagon load. Thus, it is also not commercially possible for CargoNet to offer the propane gas transport services in conventional wagons from Trondheim to Mo in Rana. However, CargoNet has been in dialogue with Statoil for a combined solution, where semi-trailers/containers are lifted on the train in Trondheim for transport to Mo in Rana. There is currently no explanation for this, but in my view it would have been a good solution, even for the communities along the freight route in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1160	I was not quite satisfied with the answer. That's because I run this distance weekly. I have sailed first into a fatal accident after trailers, and I am constantly looking away at trailers that are either on the side or with the wheels in the weather on this stretch. The head of the fire in one of the municipalities concerned says it will be a disaster if a trailer carrying propane gas collides with another car. See if this area is scattered, then you run through areas where it's settled, and it's said that within a radius of 1 km, all life will probably disappear if such an accident occurs. That is why I hope that the Council of State will take an even stronger initiative towards the NSB, so that the NSB will actually get ahead in its efforts to get this gas onto the railway. My question will be whether the Council of State might consider prioritizing the work of influencing the NSB to advance the plans she outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1169	Traffic safety is very high on the agenda in my department. Therefore, it is important when working both in the road sector and in relation to rail that road safety is taken into account. And so is the case with the type of transport of dangerous goods that we're talking about here. That's why when I'm working out plans and in what I'm presenting to the Storting, I want to be constantly related to road safety in consciousness. That's why I want to focus on what goes on this kind of road safety when we think about the framework conditions for the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1174	I'm happy that you keep it in focus. I think it is very affordable that the Council of State is concerned with road safety in this case. In general, I would like to say that it is important to get more of the goods on the Nordlandsbahn instead of to drive trailers on very bad roads that are not intended for that type of transport. The roads may be good for private cars, but the heavy car combinations are not really the roads for which they are intended. That's why we have a hugely high accident rate on the distance that this is talking about. But I appreciate the focus on road safety. But in the case of propane gas, we have a dimension in addition: it's not just the accident itself that can be disastrous, but if it happens in the vicinity of the building, it can get dimensions far beyond it. So once again, I encourage the Council of State to have a dialogue with the NSB to get ahead of work on getting the gas onto the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1183	I just want to stress again that road safety will be very central to me in the future. I also want to remind you that CargoNet has been and is in dialogue with Statoil. I would like them to continue that dialogue to find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1191	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, several road sections have reduced the speed from 80 to 70 km/h, to the detriment of many road users, both private and business. Does this reduction seem right to the Council of State when it is aware, at the same time, that these are often road sections that already have the best road standard, as well as good maintenance of the winter roads and, in particular, are one of our main transport routes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1200	On Thursday 3 January, I was given the opportunity to participate in lighting at Domkirkeodden at Hamar by marking the victims of road traffic in Hedmark in the year we have now left behind. It was a strong experience and a serious reminder to me that we must never rest in the work of improving road safety. Every person killed in traffic is one too many. On the road sections of Hedmark that have now reduced the speed limit in the autumn, 21 people have been killed and 15 have been seriously injured in the last eight years. Furthermore, 44 people have been seriously injured and 274 more easily injured. So, in total, 354 people have been killed or injured on these distances over the last eight years. If we can do something about this, it will be a step forward that means infinitely much more than the annoyance expressed by the representative Bredvold. In the national transport plan, road safety is the highest priority area. A vision if no death or lasting injury is highlighted. Reduction of speed limits on road accidents is one of many measures that are now being implemented to improve road safety. The new speed limits are mainly introduced in places where no more recent implementation or implementation of other major road safety measures has taken place. Against this background, the Directorate-General for Road Transport has developed new criteria for off-circuit routes, and these criteria underpin the adjustment of the speed limits applied in the harvest. In Hedmark, on the basis of these new criteria, speed limit reductions have been carried out on the main road network. The speed limit has been reduced from 90 km/h to 80 km/h. Furthermore, 32 km have reduced the speed limit from 80 to 70 km/h, of which 13 km have only reduced the speed limit in winter. The Road Office in Hedmark has carried out measurements showing a speed reduction of 3 to 5 km/h after the reduction of speed limits. Preliminary speed measurements in Uppland and Telemark following a corresponding speed reduction also show a speed reduction of 3 to 7 km/h. Research shows that there is a clear link between speed and accidents, particularly serious accidents. Calculations carried out by the Directorate of Roads indicate that the current speed reduction will save 10–15 lives per year. A similar question related to speed limitation in the South Trondelag was raised in the Stortinget Question Time on 7 November 2001 by the representative of Christopher Stensaker. I would therefore also like to refer to the answers I gave then, because I have not changed my position since then.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1219	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which, unfortunately, I was not particularly impressed by, because the Council of State's response could well be understood so that there is only speed that kills or damages road users. Let it not be the slightest doubt that anyone who dies in traffic, whether it is in Hedmark in other places, is one too much. That's where we agree. But it cannot be that the Council of State is of the opinion that it is only the speed that kills, and that she wants to return to the time when it had to go one in front of any vehicle and shout: Here comes a car! So as long as we reduce the rate, we also reduce the number of injuries. I guess we can't go back to the time when the speed was the only thing. For there is so much else that we can do, and in a newspaper from Hedmark, it says, ‘Wonderful road caused by many accidents’. So there must be other things that are involved in increasing the number of injuries. Will the Council of State look at things other than speed limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1224	I can refer to a wide range of different measures that have been used and that have been used, and which were discussed at the latest in the context of the budget, which are related to road safety measures. It involves individual measures, from some improvements in road sections to investment in new roads and other types of measures. Therefore, there are a wide range of measures and instruments that are both assessed and used in the different contexts. As long as we have a limited budget to deal with, we need to give priority to the measures we have available, and we need to apply the measures that can be most timely and that have the greatest impact there and there. In this context, speed reductions have proved to be a useful measure that you can take, and we have chosen to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1229	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which shows that she sees other opportunities than just reducing speed – at least I now choose to interpret her there – but that she sees speed limitation as the most important thing. At that point, I disagree reasonably, because I believe that we need to prioritise our roads in a completely different way. We have to give more money for maintenance, we have to give more money for repairs, so that we get road sections on which it is safe to drive, even if you are driving for 80 km/h. 80 km/h is not really fast today, with the road standard and the car standard we have. When you reduce the speed from 80 to 70 km/h, you create some irritated drivers, which in their irritation creates near-accidents. I assume that when the Council of State says in its answer that this will save 10–15 lives a year, it can't just be in Hedmark. It must be in the whole country – it can be misunderstood. The fact that other representatives have raised similar issues, such as South-Trundellag, must also show the importance of this. I would ask the Council of State to provide research on how much poor road maintenance or lack of repair has to say for the number of injuries and deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1236	The interpretation that speed reduction is the most important means of action is made available to the representative himself. The size of each harvest relates to a budget where priorities can be set, and the priorities that have been set are the result of the Storting's treatment of both the transport plan and the budget. So I see that there's a fairly large consensus that these priorities are going to be done in the way that you've chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1245	‘The post replaces a further 40 post offices by more than 50 Post in Store in the next six months. This affects several districts where it has been announced in the past that the post office should be maintained. Proposals have also been made for closure where there are no shops that can provide the service to users. This does not provide increased availability and service. How will the Council of States ensure that the provision of users is maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1252	The requirements of the Post Convention on Access to and Provision of Universal Service in all parts of the country shall be met, even after the transfer from Post Office to Post in Store. This is a clear prerequisite for the conversion of the Posten despatch network. The post office and not least the postal and telecommunications supervision body in the postal field shall ensure that it does so. The entry states that they maintain that, after conversion, there will be a minimum of 1500 postal points throughout the country, of which a minimum of 300 postal trade, as stated in the Storing Notice on the conversion of the Post dispatch network. By establishing on a national basis about 200 more new postal sites than it is laid down, and by offering Post in Stores longer opening times than regular post offices, the overall conversion will make people more accessible to the universal service of the Post. However, the total amount of the item will be reduced in areas where the post office is replaced by Post in Storek, as additional services such as: more advanced banking services and the sale of tickets are not offered at such points. The background to the Posten’s decision to replace 40 post offices with Post in Butikk in addition to what was originally adopted in 2001–2002 is the company’s need for additional cost reductions in the despatch network. I have a strong understanding that the municipalities concerned react to the change in the original plans for the future postal office network. The post office has informed that the municipalities concerned have been invited to a dialogue on the conversion, and they have been asked for comments and opinions by 6 February. The final decision will only be taken after an evaluation of the input from the municipalities. Within the requirements of the concession, it is the Post itself that has to assess at any time where there is to be self-employed post office or Post in Store respectively. However, under the concession there shall be at least one permanent dispatch point in each municipality, unless the Postal and Telecommunications Authority has granted a derogation, so that the company will continue to be represented in all its municipalities. The post office has previously stated that no ordinary post office will be closed until an alternative control mode is established in the area, such as Post in Store/Post in the Public Service Office. I therefore assume that the Post Office at the points where the Post Office is closed has ensured that customers still have good access to universal service through alternative controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1265	I can mention an example from Eastfold which is in a way an argument against what the Council of State now says. It's been one year since the post office on Jelö was upgraded to the same status as the main post office in Moss. It serves 12,000 people, and there is no store with the same central location. In the area where the intended Post in Store is to be located, the politicians in Moss have now decided that a battlefield should be built out of OBOS. The predictability of employees and customers is not present. Does the Council of State agree that postal services are managed with such a degree of unforeseeableness?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1272	There are reasonably clear leaderships through the concession on which tasks the Post should have. There have also been fairly clear signals from Stortinget about what you want with the Post – signals that go on service and accessibility for people. I'm taking with me the recordings that are coming, and I'm going to ask the Post and Telecommunications Authority to follow closely that these are being followed. That is, as I experience it, the important task of the Post and Telecommunications Authority in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1279	Instead, the Council of State said that this was not entirely decided, but the postman in Eastfold says to the newspapers, is that the final decision has been taken in this case. He explains that the economic image has turned so rapidly that it has been necessary to make these grips and changes, and that it is the 2002 budget that is the background to what is now happening. Will the Council of State review this so that the citizens receive the postal services they require? Governments have actually responded, but I want a more concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1286	I cannot relate to this specific post office, but the state spends more than 300 million each year. kr on the purchase of postal services to ensure good offers for people around the country. With regard to this specific matter, I would like to make sure that the postal and telecommunications authorities are looking into whether these services have been provided in the way they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1297	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The offer of flights and the price of air tickets are essential for North Norway, both for individuals and for industries in the region. When the flight offer is significantly reduced, as it was from 7 January on the Tromsø-Oslo flight route, this is hit hard. As the system is today, Stortinget does not have the authority to enter and control neither flight prices nor scheduled departures. Will the Council of State work to launch more routes in North Norway for tenders?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1306	I refer to my answer to question 12 from the representative Arnesen, where I explained that the case with the morning route between Tromsø and Oslo has now found its solution. Today, the Ministry of Transport enters and purchases air route services following a call for tenders on parts of the short-haul network, where low traffic conditions make it unprofitable for airlines to operate commercial routes. In this way, the state is already financing a comprehensive network of routes in North Norway that ensures good transport standards. I do not see that there is any basis for submitting a tender on this or other flight routes on the main route network now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1315	I would first of all like to thank you for your answer. As the Minister for Transport says, it looks like the problem of the route between Tromsø and Oslo is solved in the short term. But I'm concerned about thinking in the long term, both in terms of business and people living in North Norway. You can see how vulnerable the Nordic community is to air services, air departures and air prices, both in terms of passenger and freight transport. I would like to claim that it is the responsibility of the state to ensure a good business life, and the Minister for Transport certainly agrees with me that the business community is very concerned with long-term security. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: It is not enough to follow, as the Minister for Transport says. Does the Minister for Transport see other opportunities to enter and control air traffic in Norway where there is a need for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1326	As I said in my reply, I do not see the basis for entering into a tender procedure on the flight route we are talking about here, between Oslo and Tromsø, in the situation that is now. The country buys services on parts of the short-distance network and is thus involved in ensuring that there is an acceptable transport offer in this part of the country. I fully agree that it is important both for most people who live there, and not least for business and development in the area. That's exactly why we spend as much money as we do, which is absolutely right, buying air services in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1331	I understand from the response of the Minister for Transport that she does not want to go in and consider putting more routes on the offer. This example of the Tromsø-Oslo route is just one of many examples. Harstad–Tromsø has been hit before, and business as well as private individuals have said that driving becomes problematic. I hope that the Minister for Transport will follow and see the needs you have in North Norway, and in the longer term consider offering more routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1336	I can assure you that I am following closely what is happening within the aviation market, both in the area where the state is in and buying services, and in the areas where we have competition. Now it is the case that competition has been reduced in recent times, and it is particularly important to keep an eye on what kind of route services you have. Then the extent to which the Minister for Transport can intervene is limited, but I can at least assure you that the Minister for Transport will keep an eye on the evolution of the route offer in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1344	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The foundation for the creation of the Judicial Body for Foreign Affairs was to facilitate a more thorough handling of cases and to strengthen legal certainty in the event of appeals. Toyers, among others, with experience from humanitarian organisations, were nominated as denominators. Asylum seekers should be able to make personal appearances to supplement written information. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the name functions according to its intention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1353	So far, I don't have the basis to find that the denominator doesn't work after the intention. The procedure has become more transparent by the participation of doctors in dealing with cases of substantial doubt. Furthermore, the Foreign Office has established its own website with information to complainants, members, lawyers and the media. The aim is to provide an anonymised Internet practice base during the first quarter of 2002. In addition, it has established good contacts with non-governmental organisations in the field of refugee and immigration. The Foreign Affairs Act opens up a number of ways of dealing with foreign affairs. Decisions may be taken at the examination meeting with a personal presence, at the examination meeting without personal presence, by the head of staff alone and in the Secretariat. Matters without significant doubt can be settled without a hearing, either by the principal on his own or by the secretariat. It is the denominator himself who determines the form of treatment in the specific case. By the end of November 2001, UNE had handled well 5,200 cases. Of these, about 3,800 were asylum cases. Under 300 cases were decided at the meeting with a personal appearance, a little over 200 in the attender's meeting without a personal appearance, approx. 2 800 of the conductor and approx. 1 900 in the Secretariat. This shows that laymen have participated in the decision in approx. 500 things. The figure may appear low in relation to the quantity. One reason is that some of the settled asylum cases have been considered as groundless and are therefore decided by the head of the facilitator or delegated to the Secretariat. One example of this is Bulgaria. In addition, the Committee has decided many cases from people from Iraq and Kosovo. This constitutes large groups, and the examination of the first cases has led to the emergence of a practice which makes it unnecessary to consider later and similar cases. In total, the complainants have received full or partial support for approx. 8 pst. of the UNE cases dealt with. The rate of conversion is, of course, the highest in the issues that have involved significant doubts, and these are dealt with at the hearing. It is estimated that about the same number of issues change in the audience without personal presence as in the audience meeting with personal presence, about half of them. 40 pst. of the cases. Otherwise, I would like to mention that an external evaluation of the Foreign Office has been carried out to be completed by the turn of the year 2002–2003, with an interim report at the beginning of this year. The themes for the evaluation are legal certainty, including respect for the principle of equality, trust in the foreign subject, efficiency and duration of proceedings under the heading and the department's management of the field after the establishment of the foreign subject. I will await the evaluation reports before assessing whether there is any reason to make changes to the current system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1366	The background for my question is just the overview of UNE's work in the eleven first months. In the Center Party, we're not quite satisfied with administrative decisions in 90 pst. of the appeals. Int. O. No 42 for 1998-99, the majority emphasises that nemendleir has the right to be treated on his own in curative cases. The expression "can-rule" has been used. It is said to be used with caution. We believe it is alarming that asylum seekers have been granted the opportunity to attend only 6 pst. of the cases. In the same setting, the size has said: ‘... in asylum matters, the general rule shall be that a request for a meeting is met. The same should apply to asylum-like matters and access to personal presence should be easier for the greater the impact of the outcome of the case on the applicant.» Will the Council of State really take seriously the intention of Storting as expressed here?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1378	Governments take Storting's intention seriously, but I think it's also important to qualify what's the Storting's intention. In my opinion, it was to provide increased legal certainty in those cases where there were significant doubts. When we then see that we have had an influx of people seeking asylum in Norway of a slightly different composition than what we had before, you will also naturally, as long as everyone has the same type of treatment and the same legal certainty, also have fewer issues where there is really a real question of doubt in the matter, and where there is really a need for a layman's appearance. An example of this is the Bulgarians. Their cases did not have suspensive effect. They were transported out. I assume that it is not Storting's intention to bring them back again to allow them to meet, although they might have wanted it either. My starting point is that we now have to let the evaluation go its course, and then we have to use the quality of that evaluation and look at what they actually propose of changes and what lies there, to simply take a inventory to see what has happened – how it is in relation to the intentions. My intention is to come back to Stortinget at a time when we have an overview of it to see if there is a need for changes in relation to the way you treat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1385	It's right as the Council says. The intentions of Stortinget’s side are underlined and should be both more detailed and reinforced in terms of legal certainty. We in the Center Party have noticed with concern that both lawyers and organizations, such as the NOAS, has expressed concern about how the Foreign Affairs Department operates today. It is also known that the recruitment process took place with significant input from both the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. So you might be in a situation where one in some cases is talking more about moving offices than changing and doing a more thorough procedure. We are pleased with the government's commitment to sort things out and clear out so-called groundless applications, but it must not go beyond, for example. all those who, through a dialogue with a foreign student, were able to deepen their case. The foreign student has apparently not followed up well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1390	The foreign student was a new instrument. In terms of some of the premises that were made, at least if you go back to these sizes, I think we'll later think about whether you had the basis to do it at all. I think it's right that we should look at how the practice is. We will take the criticism from the organisations seriously in the further work. But it is clear that if we today estimate that 40 pst. Of those who come to Norway, are within the category assumed groundless applications, it means, if we had calculated the real number in previous cases, that the percentage of those that we had in some way as intention would get a higher legal certainty, would be considerably higher because the amount into the denominator has been much larger. Now also mention that they have taken away very many of these matters in order to get them processed. So it's not certain that in the future you'll get these percentage ratios. In addition, we have announced that we will come back with questions about all the issues that go to mention, precisely because there will be doubts about whether the intentions are being fulfilled, and that we are giving too much legal certainty, we are simply spending too much money today on the treatment we have of what we consider to be groundless asylum applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1399	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The level of income in Bergen is currently very low in relation to the average of the municipalities. Tax receipts and framework grants amounted to only 91 p.m. in 2000. calculated by average per. is resident in the country. The municipality of Bergen turned to the government last autumn to account for the unreasonable misalignment of the distribution in view of the level of income. How do the Councils of State follow up their efforts to improve the economic situation in Bergen and the major cities in general?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1408	In the future, I will focus on the situation of the big cities. By the turn of the year 2002–03, the Government will present a key message addressing the specific challenges facing the largest cities. The message will include: focus on environmental problems related to transport, the integration of immigrants and the social problems of big cities and the regional role of big cities, and the common functions of cities, and in particular the largest ones, fill their neighbourhood municipalities. However, issues related to the economic situation of big cities will be discussed in more detail already in the 2003 municipalproposition. The problem of Russia and psychiatry has not been adequately addressed by criteria in today’s income system, which is likely to be the main concern of major cities. The government has therefore started a work aimed at compensating municipalities with additional expenditure related to drug care and psychiatric treatment. The framework grant should be based on as many new population figures as possible. In calculating the framework grant, the government will therefore transform the procedures so that more recent population data can be taken into account. Local authorities with population growth will then receive compensation for new residents faster than today. The mountains and other municipalities with a population growth higher than the national average are likely to benefit from such a change. I had a joint meeting with Trondheim and Bergen on their financial situation in November. Cities were briefed on our work on long-term changes. Cities were also briefed that if the economic problems in the short term are particularly high, any applications for beauties must be made through the county. We have not received such applications yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1419	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason for my question is that the Council of State has had a bit of high smoking in the media compared to putting the big cities on the agenda. After all, she has also called for political initiative from the politicians, especially the Labour Party, who come from the big cities. That's why I'm trying to take such an initiative. I would like to remind the Council of State that in 1995 we received a big message about living conditions in the big cities. The setting we made for this message has not been followed up very well. I hope that the big message coming at the end of 2002 for the big cities will contain something more concrete. But a question in relation to the Council of State answered when it came to the problem of drug and psychiatry in cities: how have we been going to arrive at this compensation? Is it the case that municipalities have to refer to their expenditures, and then will the Council of State assess whether these expenditures are in line with what is real?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1424	Let me just stress that my comment on the lack of involvement of the urban politicians in the debate came after I had been given a reasonable amount of fun to put the big city issue on the agenda of district representatives who have considered it to be in contrast to the districts. I wish there were more parties than the government parties that were actually involved in a city policy. I am pleased that representatives of the Workers' Party say that they are, and hope they also include it in their own internal political debates. With regard to the specific issues of drugs and psychiatry, we have a work going on in the department on how we're going to do this. So we're going to get back to this in our municipal proposition for 2003. We do not expect this to be an application form. We're assuming that here we're adding either a set of criteria or some kind of compensation that is going to be part of the income system, short-term or permanent, depending on how far we're going to get final criteria in port. If we don't get final criteria in port until that time, we're going to put in another kind of compensation, but I don't see anything useful in putting in an application round on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1431	I thank you again for the answer, and I will at least follow this up. I am a little surprised that the Council of State says that no application has been received from Bergen, because, as I know, Bergen has sent an application to the County Council. But that's what I'm going to bring up with the financial bureau in Bergen. I hope that the Council of State will look at an application for exceptional discretionary grants for 2002 in the case of Bergen, because we need to get a short-term income promise to prevent dramatic cuts in the service provision. And then I hope that the message and the community proposition mean a higher-level, permanent rise, especially for the big cities that are smaller than Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1438	I have no doubt that there is already a contact between the county officials and the two municipalities concerned, but the department has not moved on to the final reading, so I cannot go into the specific treatment of it. But I also agree that a key point in addressing urban policy is to discover the areas that the income system today does not take into account that the larger cities actually solve. And what I've mentioned as the focus of the big news and working further is this about the poverty problems, where you have a build-up in the larger cities, and drug care and psychiatry are important elements in this. In addition, there is a regional function, and cities are expected to offer a much larger impact area than their own, and to contribute to funding, including: for the different types of infrastructure, e.g.: in the field of culture, which means that there are some regional functions for which there is not a good record in the income system today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1443	The President would like to point out that the representative, Lund, should have used a more parliamentary description to show what he means by the pictorial expression 'high-denomination'.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1450	I have the following questions for the Minister of State: ‘The Minister of the Council and of the Regions has previously stated that fewer municipalities are desirable, inter alia, in view of the economic and professional competence of many small municipalities to carry out their tasks. Are the State Councils also considering changing the county boundaries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1459	The Co-operation Board has announced that it will assess the tasks of the County Council in the light of the Sem Declaration, with emphasis on the planned changes in the environment, agriculture, level and area. The assessment shall end in February. In my opinion, it must be up to the county councils themselves to decide whether it is appropriate to change the county boundaries. Such an assessment should, at my discretion, be made in the light of the tasks of the county council. Therefore, I believe that the county councils should now wait for a divisional change until they know what is to be the content of the new county council. The process of changes in county limits was pulled up by the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001 on the division of tasks and the treatment of the new law on division in May. Voluntaryness is here the most important keyword for further consideration of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1468	Thank you for that. Then I'll have to ask a follow-up question. The state councils have been very offensive about wanting to merge small municipalities, even though the time perspective is quite long. It's 10–15 years, if I've registered right. This will have consequences for the way in which our counties are divided today, and it is, of course, commendable that one at this point wants to volunteer for the county councils. But does the Council of State not see that this can be both a sensitive and difficult issue, where there will be disagreement in the county councils as to whether mergers should take place, and that at some point it will be a matter of having to make decisions at a higher level? And then I will challenge the Council of State very clearly that she must have thought about whether it would be natural to make proposals for changes in the county boundaries, and whether she is also ready to accept her responsibility in relation to that discussion in Norwegian public.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1475	My starting point is that we should organise the public sector according to what is most appropriate for the users of public services and to make local democracy work. That means that I believe borders should not prevent good services. This can be done in some places through inter-municipal cooperation or through voluntary associations between municipalities. I believe that there are some trends and challenges for Kommune-Norway that make it necessary to take a public discussion on this issue. If it were to be such that a boundary is a barrier, for example: of course, there will be more parties here, and it may be that we will have a discussion about who will decide and be responsible for this. I would like to remind you that at the very beginning of this year, 1 January 2002, we have had the first border crossing, by the fact that the municipality of beer went from Hordaland to Rogaland, through a referendum in the beer where there was a majority in favour of this. And I think it's the methodology for possibly making county border changes of that kind, that it's the volunteer of the municipalities that determines county membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1480	First, I would like to say that I very much agree with the Minister for Municipalities that, of course, in everything we do as a society, it must actually be that individuals are served with concrete changes – whether in terms of community mergers or changes in county boundaries. But then I want to say that here I feel in a way that the government has not thought carefully whether it will then be willing to use the same principle in relation to municipal mergers as in relation to county boundaries. I think it's hard for people out in the counties and out in the municipalities to separate the two things. We know there's a lot of commitment around both, and it's also often about people's identity. That's why I think from the answer given by the Minister of State, that it might seem that the Government has not thought well enough through the issues that can very quickly force itself on the county boundaries and discussions around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1487	We have a precedent for this in relation to the treatment we had last year of the question of the transfer of the municipality of beer between Hordaland and Rogaland. The county council in Hordaland did not agree with that move, at least not at that pace. Then the concept of volunteering was established because there was a population majority in the Ølen municipality that wanted this. The previous government agreed, and the Storting did not oppose the treatment. It is the position that is valid in relation to the move of municipalities between counties. Then we have another big debate about county associations, the major regional discussion issues, where I have said that we need to focus on what tasks county councils have to do to find the most appropriate form and size of them in the future. There are also issues of volunteering between these units. However, with regard to the voluntary nature of each municipality, it is the majority of each municipality that then has to determine its membership. And so no one in Stortinget has objected to the treatment of the municipality of Ølen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1497	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The Council of State considers that there are too many municipalities and that the number should be reduced by 100. The desire is a better public sector. The Coastal Party would raise doubts about a better and more efficient service offer in the municipal mergers. Does the Council of State not see that geographical proximity to services is an important aspect of their quality, and how does the Council of State consider that the number of municipalities should be reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1506	The background to my desire to reduce the number of municipalities is the development that I believe municipalities need to take seriously if they are to be able to provide adequate and good services to their citizens in the future. Firstly, we get users who become more competent and conscious of their rights. Secondly, increasing labour demand will further strengthen competition for labour in the future. Although the local government sector will grow in real terms in the coming years, I don't think these challenges can be solved only by means of money. This is also supported by the three NIBR reports on the ability of small municipalities to meet the generalist community requirement. A municipality association will not in itself mean changes in the location of services. Kindergartens, schools, hospitals, health centres, etc. will most often lie where they have also been after municipalities have joined together. A municipal association will have a primary impact on management and administration. It also provides an efficiency gain that can be used to provide more and better services. According to our new municipality, which has just adopted its first budget, it would never have been able to invest in so many new services — schools, kindergartens, nursing homes, sports halls — if they were still two individual municipalities. The municipality has also reduced the use of resources for administration. Larger municipalities will also mean the possibility to provide a larger and more attractive professional environment within small specialised services such as: child protection. Community associations shall be based on voluntary activities, supported by positive actions such as: breakdown grants and partial compensation of non-recurring costs. What I have said about the claim to be made on municipalities that are in financial difficulties and that address the State for exceptional financial assistance does not mean that they will be required to join the neighbouring municipality. However, I have said that as a condition for obtaining exceptional financial assistance, the municipality must consider conversion measures in order to come out of a difficult economic situation. These may be internal conversion measures where an assessor assesses the conditions of the municipality organisation itself and the services it produces, and there may be external actions such as investigating inter-municipal cooperation and community association. The point must be that the municipality is involved in a process to assess measures that can address the situation, and then it must be up to the individual municipality itself to decide which measures can best solve the long-term challenges facing the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1518	The coastal party is not against municipal mergers that the municipalities themselves want. Our point is that the wish really should be voluntary and not forced forward with whips and carrots. The size has decided that it should be voluntary, and such coercion would thus be contrary to the intentions of the Storting decision. Many municipalities are forced into a difficult situation, for example: by being assigned tasks without being given sufficient resources to solve these tasks. More and more municipalities are unable to meet the financial requirements of the State and have then lost their financial autonomy. The situation does not improve by removing, among other things: the Municipal Food Fund, which further exacerbates the situation. Poor municipalities with large geographical distances may feel compelled to merge, even though the distance between residents and municipal services is thus even greater than before. There's going to be an even longer way to the health center, school, etc. Many municipalities feel compelled to sell the municipal heritage silver, such as the United Kingdom. power plants and properties, as well as introducing or extending the use of municipal property taxes. Can the Council confirm or confirm whether it will use economic means to push forward municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1525	In response, the Council of State has referred to the instruments to be used. We don't want to use economic means to force municipal mergers, but we've said that we want to make demands. We say it has to be a process where you can find effective conversion measures. And then we're going to use the carrot. It has adopted a majority of the Stortinget. From last year, municipal mergers will keep the profit without cuts in relation to basic grants and regional subsidies for 10 years after the merger. That carrot is established by a majority on the Stortinget, and I think it's an important tool. In addition, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has said that one can provide support for one-off costs related to the restructuring, i.e. when entering a municipality association, and that one can get costs related to the investigation itself covered by the department. That's the economic part of it. I agree that it is important that this should be voluntary. I disagree with the description that you necessarily get a worse service offer. My starting point is that this gives a better and stronger public sector, and that we need to take the competence problem seriously among the employees of small municipalities. Those are the weakest ones we're talking about. It's about the heavy users. These include: talk about child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1530	In Sweden, large-scale municipal mergers have been carried out. Today, much of the Swedish rural fallow is due to this, while there is a great deal of pressure on the cities. The consequences of a comprehensive community merger will be increased centralisation of the offers, in my opinion. To the extent that this leads to delocalisation and urban migration, the pressure on housing, school, health protection, etc. in cities. This can also in itself lead to greater social problems and, as a result, to an increase in the cost to society as a whole. Does the Council of State see the link between the merger of municipalities and the problem of increasing pressure on the cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1539	I believe that the entire analysis of the representative is wrong. I don't think that's right in relation to what's been the dynamic cancers in Sweden. I think you'll see that the municipal mergers in Sweden came after the centralisation started. An important basis for getting functioning and strengthened district municipalities in Norway is that they provide a good public offer, which many small municipalities have difficulties in providing for reasons of competence. So I actually believe that something larger municipalities in District Norway will provide stronger labour force municipalities, and provide a more positive opportunity to curb the relocation of these municipalities. I think in many ways you have to see that there are certain structural changes in the movement of people. The most important thing is not to segment everything that happens in District Norway, as it once has been, because then the move is going to be even stronger, but to make sure that municipalities can become more power centers at, among other things. having a good and broad labour market, i.e. employment, in order to be able to recruit skilled labour. So I actually disagree with both the analysis and the consequences. I think it would be positive for the districts with larger municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1546	So we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1552	‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs recently published ‘Norwegian assistance in focus’, including a report on Norwegian development cooperation in 2000. The report gives a good picture of Norwegian aid objectives and directions, but says little or nothing about what concrete results were achieved. What concrete results of Norwegian assistance will the Government present as the most important for 2000, and what will the Government do to make information on concrete results of development cooperation more accessible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1559	There is a broad consensus on development policy in Norwegian opinion. In order to maintain the support, it is important to demonstrate that development cooperation is effective, that it benefits and that results can be demonstrated. That is why Mr Jacobsen's question is very timely. There has been considerable progress. In 2000, the World Bank calculated the results of Norwegian assistance to priority countries of cooperation. This figure represents about 1/5 of total Norwegian aid and promises alone, roughly according to their estimates, 100 000 people out of poverty each year. In addition, the results of the overall Norwegian multilateral assistance and other bilateral assistance will be added. It's in the form of school places, vaccinated children, etc. Norway is commended for its good results. If we look at international aid as a whole, there is a significant number of millions of people who each year are being lifted out of poverty. Providers have also stepped up their efforts to strengthenrecipient responsibility and improve coordination. This will achieve more measurable development results. The results of development policy must be related to the objectives set. Over the years, the objectives have been numerous and not always coordinated with the recipient country’s own development objectives or the different objectives of donors. Reaching common development goals has therefore been very important to establish a common scoreboard of results – how far we have come. At the UN Millennium Assembly in 2000, the World Organisation’s Member States joined a set of international development goals, known as the Millennium Goals. The most important of these is to halve the proportion of the population living in absolute poverty by 2015, but there are seven other targets in addition. It is important to be able to show concrete results that Norwegian development cooperation brings us closer to the goal of improving the everyday lives of poor people. As a result, there is now work to improve the reporting of results in the assistance management. In view of this, it will be assessed whether the reporting in ‘Norwegian assistance in focus’ referred to by the EEAS shall be different. That is why we are also strengthening the evaluation function of Norwegian aid programmes and projects. These evaluations are publicly available. NORAD will also improve its online information so you can easily get to see what kind of results we have. Therefore, we are working internationally for better indicators and statistics on health, education and other development measures, so that results can be more measurable than is the case today. This will make it more possible to measure progress in relation to these Millennium Development Goals. In the budget proposal for next year, we will come back with more information about the work to achieve these objectives and how we can better report on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1576	I thank you for your answer. I expect the Minister for Development, in line with usual practice, to come to the Stortingen in spring with a development policy distribution. It is very positive that every year the Stortinget takes a debate on the lines of Norwegian development policy, but it could be an advantage if the debates became even more concrete. In general, distributions have focused on the principle and the long lines of aid policy. Could the Minister for Development think of coming to the Stortinget with a distribution where she paid even more attention to results and experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1583	A policy statement gives an opportunity to report back to the Storting, but it is also one of the main opportunities we have to put the lines of development policy forward. Development policy presentations are likely to be established as an alternative to gross domestic product reports that reported. One could make this debate more concrete, active and results-oriented, I agree, but it is very difficult to report satisfactorily in the limited time a developmental policy statement will have. I think we need to be in dialogue with Stortinget about how we can best contribute to a reporting that will give a satisfactory discussion and satisfactory information to Stortinget. We will have to use development policy statements to also put the lines forward and get the Biggest approval in relation to where we are going in development policy, just to improve the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1588	I would like to thank you again for a good answer. People in Norway are basically very positive for assistance. But if people can also get information that shows that some of the assistance is good, I believe that it will help to keep up with the positive attitude of helping the population. I see it as of course that the minister shares this reasoning, but does she see other possibilities of keeping up the positive attitude of helping the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1595	The representative Jacobsen again asks a very timely question – which we have asked ourselves right now, because we are in an anniversary year. It's been 50 years since Norwegian development cooperation was started, through India aid. We have the intention by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make this anniversary year, the year of the campaign, a year to increase knowledge and commitment on solidarity with the poorest and on what results we can achieve in development policy. We are now planning several major events that we hope can contribute, both centrally and regionally around the country, to increase knowledge, information and commitment. This is a strategy we're working on. Soon it will be completed. I hope the representative Jacobsen and Stortinget will also notice a difference, that it actually happens more in this area in 2002 than it has done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1600	Then the president will wish us luck with the anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1603	Thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-01-16.ana.ud2082e1616	There is no record.
