ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e32	The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Kirsti Welander, has taken the seat. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will inform that the referrals to Case No. 1 and 2 have not been outside the regulatory period — i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with these matters now. Furthermore, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at noon. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e55	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each group and five lines with replies after the submissions of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e66	In fact, it is with some pride that I, on behalf of the majority of the Defence Committee, present the first follow-up budget after the defence settlement of 19 June this year – and let me add: the largest defence budget ever. The budgetary position currently under consideration is, after the book, a direct follow-up to the decisions of the Inst. S. No 232 for 2001-2002 – a gross spending framework of 29.9 billion DKK and a net framework of 28.8 billion DKK, for the Ministry of Defence. In addition, the budget for civil protection comes with a gross budget of 333.7 million. and for the Ombudsman with a expenditure framework of 3.8 million. kr. On 19 June 2002, with the votes of the Labour Party and Government Parties, the Stortinget made a decision on structure, volume and financing. The agreement ensuring the defence predictability and security during the current planning period became a reality. This is an innovation and a unique design, not only in the defence policy context, but in policy in general. For the first time, the defense knows exactly what their budget will be for next year, and it's possible to have long-term planning that you haven't had before. This year's budget is proof that the defence agreement works after the intentions, the appropriations are exactly what defence was proposed by the majority of the population in June, and the Stortinget follows up the structure adopted. It has also been nice to receive praise from NATO and from our allies because of the structural changes and the budgetary framework underpinning the implementation of the defence reform. We are now at the forefront of NATO in terms of the absolutely necessary work all countries in the alliance must undergo, an adaptation of the armed forces to a completely new security reality, with a new division of labour in the alliance. The aim is a new defence structure with a better operational capability, eliminating the imbalance between structure, volume and economic framework – a further development also into the next planning period of the Defence of a modern security policy tool in an open, democratic, technological and globalised society. When the Defense now plans the next long-term proposal for treatment in 2004, they have an excellent starting point with a stability and predictability that is quite unique, actually a crystal sphere that no one has ever had before. The settlement parties, the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, have been faithful to the agreed structure and the commitments that lie there in the budgetary position. That doesn't mean we're so square that we don't take over the dynamics from the outside. When NATO has now decided to call on the Member States to clear up labour, niche capacity and better adapt existing capacities to NATO's military needs, the majority of the Committee agrees that it may lead to some shifts in investment within the structure and economic framework of the defence agreement. Among other things, some projects planned towards the end of the planning period will be pushed into the next period, while some intended to start up for the next four-year period will be accelerated to this period. The Committee was briefed on this, both before and after the Prague Summit, and from the Labour Party we cleared this up in advance. This was about changes of about 900 million. NOK 118 billion. NATO’s summit is also marked by a kind of ‘year after’, or a kind of ‘year after’. On 11 September 2001, the defence and security policy was broadly redefined. Rarely has the world and our thinking been changed more by a simple event. In the past year, journalists, researchers, communicators as well as politicians have tried to respond to what is new and what should be done to meet the new challenges. This also applies to the Defence in Norway and to Norwegian politicians. I will not claim that all the challenges have found their answer, but I would argue that in the year that has passed, we have come out clearly strengthened in terms of national defence, a new and modernised NATO and the security of the individual citizen, among others. for the treatment of the vulnerability message. NATO consisted of 16 countries when the Berlin Wall fell on November 9, 1989. Now, ten years later, it is decided that the alliance will consist of a whole of 26 countries. Countries that are behind the Churchill-baptized ‘iron carpet’ are already full members, and during 2004 countries such as Slovakia and Slovenia, which did not exist in 1989, will be members. This gives hope for the future, and we must remember this when forward-looking optimism is replaced with fear of what tomorrow will bring. NATO has also had an amazing ability to adapt and is now gaining a political role as an integral force in Europe, a pan-European and transatlantic security organisation. However, in order to have political authority, NATO must also have the necessary means and military capabilities. Action plans against terrorism and weapons of mass destruction have been adopted in addition to the new division of labour in Prague Capabilities Commitment, PCC. Norway shall, inter alia: provide competence in strategic maritime transport, support vessels for frigates, specialised forces specially trained for winter and mountain, mine clearance and exercise facilities in Norway. This also means that the new MTBs in the Skjold class, which have been adopted in the context of the defence reform, belong to the facilities that we are now to contribute to in NATO. An effective response to the new security challenges of an open, democratic and technological society cannot, of course, be solved by military forces alone. A total concept of preparedness and security is necessary, and we need to develop more civil-military cooperation, where traditional cultural differences must not hinder constructive solutions. Inner. S. No 9 for 2002–03, which is the story of the Great Britain’s Communication on Social Security, is, in my view, a defence doctrinally innovative document in terms of civil protection and military-civil cooperation. There are objectives, visions and suggestions in the vote that are not to be found in the government paper submitted to Stortinget. And once again, we were able to make a broad deal. I think it means security for most people that we have as wide a scope as possible in the policy on such issues, regardless of what kind of government constellation that might exist. An important part of the June agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties was the decision to integrate the Defence Manager and his strategic functions into the Ministry of Defence, while establishing a defence staff in the Ministry. Several events in the last year have reinforced the need for such integrated management. Following the class bombs on Hjerkinn, state council Krohn Devold wrote to the Committee in its report that there is a need for better coordination of activities both horizontally between the different lines of defence and vertically between top strategic management and executive management – in addition to improving civil-military coordination and clarifying command conditions in a new structure. I welcome the fact that the Ministry's aim is to provide for the implementation of an integrated management between the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Home protection has been given considerable attention — I had almost said in several ways — in this ‘year after’. At the last reading of the defence reform in spring, it is clear that the Home Office will play a significant operational role in an anti-terrorism preparedness. However, it will require a major modernisation of the Home Protection system. Should Home Security have the ability to cooperate more flexibly with other military and civil actors as part of anti-terrorism preparedness, it requires both quality enhancement and greater differentiation. So it's not necessarily the case that we have to have a home protection that is equally organized, for example. in densely constructed struts and pig-grown struts. In June, therefore, the Committee asked for a broad review of the role, organisation and structure of Home Affairs and for an appropriate examination to be submitted to the Stortinge for consideration. Today, the Storting reiterates this request in the form of a decision. This year has also been marked by a debate on the system of anti-personnel weapons stored in each soldier's home. I have no figures on the enquiries I have received, both from HV soldiers who would like to hand in their weapons, and from creative people and companies with various suggestions to secure AG-3 weapons. We have basically become experts in many ways and in different variants of securing just AG-3. The pattern of residence and the way people live has changed since the 1940s. When a HV soldier who lives in collective with five other young people wants to get the HV weapon removed from his wardrobe, I have understanding and respect for it. I hope that the different HV districts will be flexible in terms of individuals' wishes for the surrender of weapons. And I want to give praise to Akershu HV district for going out and offering this a few weeks ago. In today’s setting, the Committee asks that, in the context of the investigation we have already requested, a review of the storage of weapons and possible differentiation of weapon types, for example, must be carried out. between a big city like Oslo, where it is erased is not certain that AG-3 is the right weapon, and other more pig-like places in Norway. As an immediate measure to secure the weapons of protection at home, the stamp on the weapons is now withdrawn, as well as those who have weapons with locks with keys – and there are actually a few thousand who have, as part of a trial project, submitted the key at the same time as the others submit the stamp. At least it'll prevent the impact drop. We are going to stick to the proposal to introduce a lock. I would like to stress that the lock is and has been discussed. There has been a lot of debate, both internally and externally. In our technological world, locks can easily be broken, at least if there are supposed crimes we're talking about. One might say that the last domestic weapon accident was a deliberate killing, not an affect drop. But until something gets better, the Committee now believes – all except the Advance Party – that it should be put in place to lock the chamber. Finally, the proposal for a new chapter structure for defence was promoted in the revised national budget in spring 2001 and rejected by the majority of the financial committee. However, the government has promoted the proposal again, and there is still discussion here in the house about the chapter structure. A unanimous committee has found it appropriate, in consultation with the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, to remove the matter from the budgetary position and promote it as a matter of its own in an additional position to this budgetary position. With this, I recommend the majority position of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e115	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e118	I would like to thank the committee leader for taking a broad perspective on this debate and the vote. Some of the idea behind the broad agreement was that we should have such a robust defence budget that if – which of course all good forces had to forbid – we would have a change of power, the defence settlement would nevertheless stand by power, so that we could ensure predictability of the defence. Now it's working at a higher level than in the individual committee to make such a change of power at some point in time. The Labour Party has – as far as I understand – a high profiled policy to achieve government cooperation with the SV and the Centre Party. Yesterday the Judicial Committee debated its position, and there was the very constitution of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre which had gathered on a minority proposal, against the other parties. Now, these processes will hardly be decided in the Defence Committee, but we will take care of our things and take responsibility for defence and security policy. I would like to ask the committee leader if she agrees that a scenario like what we saw yesterday in the Justice Committee, i.e. an agreement on defence issues between the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party, must be seen as a scare scenario, from a defence and security policy perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e127	For the record, the Central Party has no representative in the Judicial Committee. I have great faith in the Central Party's defence policy. It has turned out that the Central Party is quite capable and competent in defence policy. Let me stress that, historically, in terms of both defence policy, security policy and foreign policy, there has been – and still is – a very broad consensus in this process. It citizens for the security of the individual citizen in this country, but also for our reputation in the organisations we work with and are members of, and in the organisations we rely on to negotiate with, read: NATO, of which we are a member, and of course the EU, which we have to deal with in order to safeguard our interests. I am absolutely sure that we will have a defence policy breadth in line with that which we have entered into as a settlement this year, also in the years ahead. I was very conscious in my contribution to stress that the defence-policy settlement will also consist of different alternative government constellations. That is the purpose of such a defence policy settlement. There has been a very great deal of will both from the Workers' Party and from the government parties during the process of budgeting in the Committee in order to reach an agreement not only on numerical sizes and on the structure underpinning us, but also on annotations. This broad security policy, which, not least the Workers' Party and the Right, also guarantees foreign policy, hopes and believes that I will continue to exist in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e140	Initially, I would like to say that it is almost touching to hear here, how agreeing the Right and the Workers' Party is. All of this must have happened on the Labour Party's premises. I think that in defence matters, the Right has now lost all credibility and its profile from previous years. But enough about that -- we can do that another time. This is a line for Marit Nybakk. I just want to ask for something that she did not get into, and that is in the setting. It concerns women and allowances. I know that the Workers' Party is very busy with quotaing and that it thinks it is very good. It does not seem otherwise to be the party of progress. That's why I just want Marit Nybakk to confirm the Workers' Party's view of quotaing. It says in the setting: ‘Working’ – what it is now – ‘to increase the proportion of women and persons with a migrant background to the Defence. From the 2002/2003 school year onwards, women who fill the minimum requirements for basic command and war education will be called in for school admission. The female aspirants called in shall be given the necessary priority if they are qualified to complete the education. In addition, measures shall be implemented to increase the admission of women to the comprehensive education of the Armed Forces.’» I wonder if the Labour Party can tell me what the measures might be. Now it's not the ones who made the setting, but I know they're supporting what it says. I also wonder what is meant by ‘working’. That expression is used in time and incessantly when you really don't want to say what it's about. Does the Labour Party really believe that women should be given priority even if they only meet the minimum requirements? Is it not discriminatory for women to get involved under those conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e152	Well, work can be so often.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e155	I was fundamentally in doubt whether this line was addressed to me or to Bjørn Hernæs. I assume that the representative Width will have a good opportunity later today to make replies both to Bjørn Hernæs and to the Council of State. Let me first stress that the Workers' Party is fully committed to what is stated in the Proposition on the objectives of getting more women into the Defence, also the formulations that suggest that this is some kind of what I would call moderate quota. It simply means that when women apply for admission, they should be included when they meet the minimum requirements. Now I have no doubt that there are a number of capable and spreading young women in this country who are not just fulfilling the minimum requirements, but who are fully able to compete with men in several areas of defence. I also believe that the defense is just an institution that has the benefit of getting more women. There's a goal from this big one in the past that we're going to have more women into the defense. The defence is probably the only institution that has a relatively low proportion of women. I would also like to point out that the sample that has gone through the status-enforcement measures for guardians has also made proposals for women to be admitted to the session. That is, we can in the future get to a situation where you also take young girls into a session, and thus get the opportunity to take out the best women on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e166	NATO recently held its summit in Prague and headed out the course for the future development of the alliance. The alliance was expanded by seven new members and has decided to acquire a callout force of 21,000 soldiers who can move out at short notice to anywhere. With so many members and relatively unclear tasks, some believe that NATO is going to develop into a chat club that doesn't get a big deal done. In SV we are not so optimistic. We fear more the role of NATO as a military toolbox for the United States, that the United States and NATO take on the role of world police. We're afraid that NATO is going to be used as a tool to put the U.S. doctrine of preventative attacks into life, rather than that NATO is the one to keep the United States in mind. The expressive force of 21,000 men was an American idea. At the summit, NATO also took up another American idea, namely the development of a rocket shield. NATO just made a decision to participate in an investigation of this, but it gives a political signal that this is something you think it might be worth betting on. I would like to hear the opinion of the representative of Nybakk. The US rocket shielding plans have been highly debated and criticised in Europe. The reasons for being critical are many. This could be the start of a new arms race. It will be crazyly expensive and steal resources from other important tasks. The rocket shield is intended as a protection against attacks by so-called rough states. SV believes that it is far more realistic to bet on diplomacy rather than technology against this problem. What does the Workers' Party think about the rocket shielding plans and that NATO is now going to initiate an investigation of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e177	First, I want to say that I disagree with the description of NATO and the transatlantic relations. I believe that what is being looked at in Prague is an increasing self-confidence among the European Member States of NATO. It has been worked very intensively by Lord Robertsen not only to bring about the prestigious enlargement, which means that NATO is becoming an integral political force in Europe, but also to give NATO greater authority in relation to, for example, NATO. The United States of America will then have a division of labour between the European countries on the Prague Capabilities Commitment, i.e. niche capacities from individual countries. I think this will give a greater degree of equality between the European NATO countries and the United States. Not that Europe can measure up to the United States in any way, but at least it will give an increasing self-confidence, which is also interesting in the relationship between the European countries of NATO and the partly the same countries in the EU's security and defence policy. As regards the rocket shield taken up by the representative Bjørklund, only an investigation has been carried out. It means that no decision has been taken on such a rocket shield. And since NATO is a consensus organisation – this will also be dealt with politically in Norway before one gets as far as being close to taking a decision that this should be implemented – we will have to deal with this in a proper and thorough way. It is no secret that the Workers' Party has been skeptical about this earlier. This will be the subject of a thorough political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e185	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e188	Short to last line: I assume that the representative Bjørklund will elaborate his plans on diplomatic advances towards bin Laden in his main post. This budgetary debate takes place, as the committee leader said, after the defence agreement in June and after NATO has been adapted and confirmed its anchor as the dominant security and defence pact in Europe and North America. Let me first say a few words about NATO enlargement. Enlargement reinforces and confirms NATO's action and flexibility and is a continuation of the process that has taken place since the fall of the Wall. The dynamics of NATO are nothing less than impressive. NATO is the most successful peace organization in history. It survived, adapted and modernised the organisation after the task for which it was originally intended was solved in a way that ensured Norway’s freedom and independence and Western ideals. Now new Member States have been given a share in the same security that we have benefited from. For me, it is natural to highlight the independence of our close friends in the Baltic. When Jan Petersen launched this long-term goal, he was met with sarcasms and resistance from environments in Norway. The new members add new security and defence capabilities to the alliance. The military strength and command structure of NATO has been further developed and modernised. The peace-keeping and stabilising element of NATO is not least demonstrated by NATO having initiated and implemented its reorganization in close and committed cooperation with Russia. Russia no longer poses an invasion threat to the alliance. On the contrary, there is cooperation that characterizes the links. NATO is now well equipped to safeguard the military part of the fight against international terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction. The military and strategic development of NATO is beneficial to Norway. Norway has therefore agreed to an investigation of missile shields for NATO countries. NATO thus assesses how to address the new threats with both political and defence measures with a focus on an inclusive and active cooperation policy. It is also in Norwegian interest and in line with the change of defence that in the joint fight against international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, we are transforming and improving the military capabilities of the alliance. No country in the alliance can afford any longer a defence that does not satisfy the overall needs of the alliance. We therefore fully support the adopted Action Plan called Prague Capabilities Commitment, PCC. To the new reaction force, NATO Response Force, NRF, we offer strengths according to our country's assumptions and capabilities. Each country will strive for the same. In this way, we get together more flexibility, deployment, endurance and the ability to interact. I would like to stress that there is no contradiction between our strong contribution to the EU and the development of NATO's reaction strength. It is obvious to Norway that NATO has priority No. 1 if parallel needs arise, so that the United States and Canada are active partners in any crisis management. In other words, we are striving for a strong response force with high fighting capabilities, technological superiority, flexibility in relation to all levels of conflict, and that the force obtains components from all sectors of defence. Let me stress that the NRF will be the only unit of strength in NATO after the fire force, AMF, has ceased. In the reorganization, the interaction – so-called interoperability – between the United States and Europe is of the utmost importance. In this context, the development of a new command structure is of central importance. We are therefore given two strategic commands, one in the United States and one in Europe. The operational command will lie in Europe, while in Norway we will do everything we can to ensure that Jåttå is given responsibility and tasks in relation to the functional command in the United States. Such a link would provide valuable knowledge to Norwegian military management. NATO's presence on Norwegian soil is of great importance. I am therefore pleased that the government will do its utmost to get an impact on such a decision, but emphasises that there will be a tough fight where we can't pre-shoot the result. I want, in the same context, to underline the work of maintaining and perhaps modernizing the American pre-storage in Trine layers. The conversion of defence that we are now carrying out with firmness, high tempo and commitment is adapted to the new structure of NATO. Norway is at an early stage in modernising its defence system, and we are receiving recognition for our prediction and for our willingness to act in accordance with the common strategic objectives. This adds Norwegian goodwill and thus contributes to Norwegian security. I would like to stress that there is no contradiction between a strong national defence and our ability to share solidarity with our allies. If not before, 11 September must have taught us that terror knows no borders and can strike anywhere and at any time. Therefore, a thought that belongs to the cold war becomes a futility in our globalized world. I came home two or three days ago, Wednesday, from a visit to Kyrgyzstan, a lukewarm country that has escaped from Communism's claws, and thus knows what terror is. Therefore, they have understood that they too will have to contribute to the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, they have put their country at the disposal of the allied forces carrying out the ‘Enduring Freedom’, ‘Permanent Freedom’ operation. These operations not only combat terrorist groups but also ensure the possibility of carrying out humanitarian aid, either by protecting non-governmental organisations or by ISAF, the international response force. I became, among other things, received by Colonel Erik Gulseth, Head of the Common Dutch-Danish-Norwegian Air Force supervising Afghanistan. There was a demonstration of what international military cooperation means in practice. So far we've been practicing together, but now we're operating on a team where everyone has to trust each other. Allied pilots have increased by six to seven hours in the air in a terrain where any option other than to return home with the aeroplane is more than risky. We have a small but extremely effective air force in Norway, and Midlife Update has turned the air force into a brand new combat weapon. Nevertheless, we may be in the process of stretching the knit to the outer limit of what even our highly motivated crews are tolerating, without jeopardizing future qualities. Lieutenant Colonel Dag Simastuen is head of the Nordic Deployment Unit in Manas. He stressed that what made the operations particularly motivating was feedback that this was the best security and security for the people in Afghanistan who were concerned with humanitarian work and the construction of a new democratic structure in a country that for decades only knew the laws of war and the horrors of war. In our country too, there are still political forces that will provide humanitarian aid, but do not use the means necessary to provide help. During the visit to Manas, I got a strong introduction that such an attitude does not know the mentality of Afghanistan's War Lords. I am pleased and proud that a very broad majority on the Stortinge rejects this kind of accident. To get back home, there is one of the same emergency we find in the attitude to the new shooting and practice field in the Østerdalen. I will reject the suspicion of the field and would like to stress that it is absolutely necessary to give education to the soldiers who can be ordered to operate in the service of peace, and I would also like to stress that planning and implementation are entirely in line with the Storting's assumptions. As the rapporteur and the chairperson of the committee stressed, this suspension is a continuation of the defence settlement and in all essential areas in accordance with the Government's proposal. I am pleased that the Progress Party, too, substantially supports the suspension and therefore once again agrees to secure the framework and thus predictability of NOK 118 billion for the entire four-year period. The Labour Party, as we know, is trying to make us think that $117 billion is the same as $118 billion, but this creative arithmetic doesn't explain the fact that the four-year defence sum is secured by the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e220	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e223	The right has acted constructively, and I would like to thank the representative hereafter for the work on long-term majority solutions in the Committee. That's why the Working Party and the Right agree on most of the settings. But in one area I need help with an explanation, and that's that Defense Building, as a result of the year's budgetary settlement between the government parties and the Progress Party, has been ordered to sell properties for 200 million. kr in 2003. In the current year, the government budgets for a budget of 80 million. NOK for the sale of properties. In St. prp. No 13, which we also deal with here today, the year's budget has been adjusted down by 60 million. kr. In other words, you sell 20 million. kr less than this year's budget and a total of 140 million. kr less than the 2003 budget. Can the representative Hernæs explain how Defence Construction is to be able to increase its sales revenue by more than 230 pst. until next year, when you have to reduce by 25 pst. this year, and it is likely that next year will be a falling market for the sale of properties? If the representative here can give me a good explanation, I will appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e232	I always appreciate people asking for help, so I'll do the best I can. It is no more difficult than that there is an ambitious objective in the draft budget. I could perhaps even suggest that there is some sort of underlying belief that Defence Buildings could have been more active in selling properties, and that this is a strong incentive – call it a marshy to Defence Building – to intensify the efforts to liquidate the large amount of facilities that Defence Building has been given the responsibility to liquidate, because the Defence Building no longer needs them. Without interfering too much with the picture, I think the representative Halvorsen has a certain sense of the possibilities, constraints and challenges of the merchants. There is nothing in this draft budget other than a clear message to the Defence Building to show good merchants and go in actively to complete the buildings and areas that the Defence Agency no longer needs. I have no premise to deny that there is a goal that the ministry sees as possible to be achieved, and then I assume that we will at least wish Defence Building success in that work. And then we might get back to that. I think the criticism will be less if they manage to sell for more than what we have said than if it would be significantly less than what is in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e241	Recently, media noise has been high in killings and accidents carried out with HV weapons, and disproportionately more modest when civil weapons have been used. Journalists as well as retired generals, staging representatives and other opinionators have participated in this media noise. Some even believe that the Home Office has played its part and should be completely or partially disarmed. In a 15-year period, 1987–2001, 629 deaths were committed in Norway. In the same period, only four of these were committed with HV weapons, the vast majority of them with knives and batons. Let me stress that one murder of course is one too much. As a defence-friendly party, which Right wants to call itself, it is strange, in the opinion of the Advance Party, that the Right agrees to such an extensive transformation of HV as to approve the withdrawal of the flint needle and then an introduction of the clasp lock during a three-year period. Doesn't see to the right that this will change the role of HV in a negative way, by inter alia. the response time and the ability to be ready for mission in a very short time will drastically change? With increased terrorist activity, this will not be a wishful situation, either for the Right or for others. The representative Hernæs himself mentioned 11 September and terror in his speech earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e250	I am pleased that the representative Bredvold stressed that one killing is one killing too much. It's pretty pointless to put different killings up against each other, if you stick to that way of approaching the problem. What is the matter is that we have come to – and the government has made it clear – that the attention of a negative nature that is being paid to accidents involving HV weapons does not serve the interests of defence and home security. If we might accept that we who are sitting on the Stortinget are not all the world's specialists on this, and then accept that the Chief of Defence and not least the GIHV's recommendation must be given great weight, we should have come a step closer to an explanation of why we are going to accept the withdrawal of the stamp as an immediate measure, and a phase-in of the chamber locks in a two-year perspective. It is simply the defense itself who says that it does not serve the defence's interests that these weapons are unsafe around the thousands of homes, and they also say that the insignificant extension of the response time is to the utmost extent to live with for the Defense. I think that we should be able to agree, considering the severe negative media focus that every possible accident with the HV weapon gets, that we should be satisfied that the government is taking the immediate measures that almost all of our media image and large parts of our political environment came together after the tragic accident on Kongswinger, regardless of the fact that what the committee leader said in his main post was hardly a spontaneous drop, but a carefully planned and planned killing. In spite of this, we believe that the defence interests – and the defence itself believes it – are best protected by securing the weapons in the way proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e259	In St. prp. No 55 for 2001-2002, which was presented in the spring, the Government proposed the introduction of a lock on all HV weapons. When the matter came to Stortinget in June, all parties, with the exception of SV, opposed this proposal. Those who belong to the government parties, too, opposed their own government. In St. prp. No 13, as we are discussing today, the Government is promoting the proposal again. Now all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, enter for the immediate removal of the ignition stamp and the establishment of the chamber lock. Can the representative Hernæs tell me what moments have come to me lately, which means that the Right, also here on the Stortinget, has come to the conclusion that the lock of the chamber is now a good solution to avoid more tragic killings with the Home Guard weapon?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e266	I guess I'm going to have to say that the creativity of the so-called outer right and outer left is not very big. Maybe that's what happens when you make a line change with the lines that are written in advance. But it could be. A rather sudden reaction from my side was that in the defence context it must well be a shock to SV to get into a majority position. The fact that they are now working with the government parties and the Workers' Party on a defence policy instrument is so unusual that I understand that it calls for replicating from the representative Bjørklund. When it comes to the content of the question itself, I can use the last minute to repeat what I said instead. Stunned and the media attention around any HV weapon accident is of such a nature that we have come to the conclusion that it does not serve the defence's interests. This is as strongly underlined by the Chief of Defence as by the Inspector-General of the Heimevertet. And I – to put it straight – do not have the weapon-technical competence that makes me argue that these are sensible measures, which have no significant impact on preparedness. So there are measures that HV itself is asking for, and then I think it is nice that we can, for once, include SV in an action that helps to achieve a better and safer, and thus a more effective, defence for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e275	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e278	The safety policy of Norway must be viewed on the basis of different criteria. Basically, our strategic location, a location that has become less significant for many – and you think and act afterwards – is a location that we can never get away from, and that one day again in some form may prove to be strategically significant. We should therefore never relax in our relationship to this, but have a national defence that can at any time take care of our national security. We do not have that today, in the opinion of the Progress Party, and we are therefore concerned about the reduction of defence. On the other hand, the switchover is important, but it must not be at the expense of quality. In the northern regions, large and valuable deposits of oil and gas have been discovered in recent years. At the same time, border and responsibilities are unclear in these areas, and there is a risk of increasing the risk of conflict and crises that it would be highly desirable for us to deal with ourselves, possibly with our own resources, because it could be escalating if we had to involve allies. The increasingly ongoing position of the Russian side in these areas, which is now also expressed in official documents, reinforces this problem and helps to strengthen the importance of strong national defence. The new Norwegian frigates under construction will undoubtedly make a significant contribution in these areas. Under the UN Treaty, Norway is obliged to participate in international peace operations. For Norway, it has been particularly important that fires are extinguished while small, before they escalate and can easily have an east-west perspective that could thus have consequences for us. It is also true that if we were to get in the situation that we needed help, we must be willing to contribute. But once again, such contributions must not be at the expense of our national defence, which they undoubtedly do. The costs of participating in such international operations have become so high today and contribute to weakening our own defence to such an extent that we will have to start to assess to what extent we are going to participate. In the NATO alliance, the share of the defence budget in GDP is an important measure. In 2000, the proportion fell to 1.9 pst. and it is projected to remain there until 2005 after the signals given. The average of NATO member countries is given as 2.2 pst. I would also like to remind you that the minimum requirement for the new NATO countries is that they must rise to 2 pst. and that they are now making great efforts to meet this requirement. It should therefore be obvious that Norway is not below that limit. In our opinion, the Norwegian defence budget must therefore be raised to a minimum of 2 pst as soon as possible. GDP, i.e. EUR 31.2 billion in 2002. The Progress Party considers it particularly important to continue and develop the strategic partnership with the United States. It assumes that the general relations with the United States are managed in a way that strengthens the ties. Among the main elements of such a partnership are the pre-storage of US military equipment, the continuation of US training and training activities in Norway, and effective intelligence cooperation. Norway has joined NATO’s revised strategic concept, which also concerns the design of the Norwegian defence. Many demands are made, for example: adequate capacity within command and control, communication, intelligence and monitoring, strength equipment, preparedness, availability, stamina, exercises and training, etc. The Progress Party therefore proposed adding an additional 800 million to the Defence Force. kr in the form of operating funds. I mean, budget-inner. S I further proposed that the Progress Party establish a fund for material investment of DKK 5 billion. This would give the Defence greater freedom of action to implement the necessary material investments without prejudice to the domestic budget. Large material acquisitions would therefore be financed outside the scope of such a fund. Furthermore, the Progress Party proposed to finance the Norwegian forces abroad outside the framework of its own foreign budget, so as not to burden the national defence. The ever-increasing organised crime causes a shift between national and international, while at the same time guarding the distinction between peace/crisis and armed conflict/war. It is therefore important that Norway has capacities in the intelligence and security services to control and analyse the situations and activities that emerge. Home security is just a resource in terms of crises and wars. Since 11 September 2001, the Heimevater has been used with great success in the fight against terrorism, in addition to the role they are intended to play in any mobilization. It is therefore important, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to maintain the decision that the structure of the Home Security should include 83 000 soldiers. The Progress Party believes it is important to strengthen the education and material of the specialised department in order to better solve their tasks within the current threat picture. Home protection is similar to other weapons depending on the predictability of budgets and the adjustment of budgets by activity level. The Progress Party wants to increase transfers to the Home Protection Agency also within the framework of 20 million. kr for operation, in order to complete the necessary and timely training and training. Also, materially, home security is facing major challenges. Int. S. No 232 for 2001-2002 a broad review of the role, organisation and structure of Home Affairs is requested, where the outcome of the review is to be submitted to the Stortinget. Therefore, it seems inconsistent to take panic-carded measures such as retracting the stamp and introducing a lock on the Home Protection System’s weapons, a measure that is otherwise both time-consuming and resource-demanding. In this way, the specificity and structure of the Home Protection Agency are changed before the results of the review of the Home Protection Agency's mission have been obtained. This is doing things in reverse order. The Party for Progress is therefore opposed to these measures. The party notes with concern that the Coast Guard has been affected by the VAT reform in such a way as to entail additional costs of hiring vessels. The consequence is that two hired ships have already been removed from service and that more are at risk. This, and the closure of coastal radar stations, can have serious consequences. We therefore want to exempt this type of VAT burden service, and will further strengthen the transfer to the Coast Guard by 30 million. kr for operation within the framework. The progress team considers it very important that continuation of participation in the JSF project should not lock the choice of aeroplane type. We believe it is important to maintain a real competitive situation between the different providers. This presupposes that the most realistic alternatives are treated on equal economic premises. It is therefore important that the negotiations with Eurofighter lead to an agreement that signals to foreign partners, Norwegian industry and Norwegian public opinion that the necessary resources are invested to ensure that the choice of the aircraft supplier takes place on the basis of as many criteria as possible in a genuine competitive situation. After all, this is all the clear largest contract the defence has ever made. The Norwegian defence industry is generally dependent on repurchase and has a lot to contribute. The use of repurchase agreements gives the defence the opportunity to obtain technological solutions that are better adapted to Norwegian circumstances. The Council of State and the Ministry, together with the Defence Department, must therefore endeavour to conclude repurchase agreements and to ensure that the agreements are closely followed up. Finally, I address the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote, with the exception of XII – this for votering technical reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e307	Per Ove Width has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e312	The representative Width said earlier in a reply to the representative Nybakk that the Right no longer had any credibility. The same question can be asked to the representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats regarding the Advance Party. The Progress Party made a settlement with the Government Parties to vote in a subsidiary way for the budget. The representative Width said in his speech that we should increase the defence budget by NOK 2.5 billion. And then my question is, why did not the Advance Party have any money put in the defense instead of these small money in connection with the sale of some dwellings that the Defense owns? It was the only thing in the conciliation that showed that the Progress Party is a defence party. So my question is whether we can trust the Advance Party and the Wideth when he says they want to add extra funds to the Defense, or is it such that the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Government is really the only credible in terms of progress in the Defence in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e319	The representative Leif Lund can rely on both the Advance Party and the Wideth on defence issues. We have put more money into our alternative budget, and the representative Leif Lund knows that well. He also knows that our alternative budget will of course be downgraded. That is why we think it important to ensure a budget that at least gives something to the defence. But we have re-prioritized within the framework, which the representative Leif Lund has also registered, and we think that is important. So we want to move money to the pointed end of the defense, and we think that this is a good contribution when, unfortunately, we are voted down in our alternative budget, which would give a lot more to the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e326	On many occasions, the representative Width and the Progress Party have been strongly critical of the defence agreement concluded by the Government with the Workers' Party. Both in their comments and in their alternative draft budget, they say that they ‘reject the dissatisfaction with the defence efforts of Norway that have previously emerged in NATO’. And then my question is to the representative Width: what is the background to such a statement? What is the purpose of such a false criticism? Because no such feedback has been received from NATO – on the contrary, the Norwegian Minister of Defence has received a separate letter from George Robertson, who is the Secretary-General of NATO, in which he commends the modernisation that the Norwegian defence is currently undergoing. And then I ask Width: what is the real purpose of this statement, and does not Width agree that the letter that has come from NATO is a confirmation that the defence agreement the Government has with the Workers' Party is good for Defence and good for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e333	Yes, I must be so rude that I must say that I do not agree with Lord Robertson, I do not think his statement about Norway's defence is so good. It's nice for our defense councils that she gets such messages, and that's what she's been using in different contexts. But I don't think that's quite right, and I also pointed that out in my article when it was about the budgets. There, NATO's Secretary-General has said that we're starting to do a good job, and that we're doing a good job in terms of modernising the defense. We do, we are actively working to modernise our defense. At the same time, however, we are building the defense down, and I am surprised that there may be such statements as Norway doing well. I don't think we're doing so well. And when I point out in my post that the contribution to the defence in relation to our GDP is too bad, I stand for it. I can't in any way see that these statements that come from NATO are completely correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e338	This was an interesting round. In particular, it was not, except that it might be other than SV's representative asking questions about Lord Robertson's play. The Progress Party is the government's guarantor, but not in defence matters. Then it's the Workers' Party to which it's better to brawl. The progress party, as we know, has great ambitions to spend money on the defense, as we have just heard. Among other things, in its alternative budget, the Progress Party has addressed both a foreign investment fund and a budget framework of 123.6 million. kr for the long term, which is part of more than the Government has negotiated with the Workers' Party. The question is: has the Progress Party now calmed down that the 118 billion-dollar framework that the Labour Party agreed with the Government in June will endure the long-term? The next question is about Norway's participation in any war against Iraq. Yesterday, in the New York Times, it is referred to from a meeting of U.S. Secretary of State Paul Wolfowitz had in the NATO headquarters on Wednesday, where he has asked some NATO countries to contribute to a war against Iraq. In the past, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has received an enquiry directly from the United States about the same. The question is: Does the representative Width think that it is a proper priority of Norway to participate in a war against Iraq, and if so, is Norway best involved directly in a US-led operation, or in a NATO operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e347	It is true, as the representative Bjørklund says, that our budget is NOK 123.6 billion, while the government budget is NOK 118 billion. But it is, after all, a majority decision on this, and then we just have to record that this has been done and be loyal to such a decision. But it is clear that in any situation we will stress this sum and stress that it is too little for the defense, as I have said before, and we will also stress the sum that we have in our alternative budget. As far as Iraq is concerned, of course, there is a very serious question. I believe that Norway here, as I also said in my post, must contribute to the extinguishing of fires – this is not just a fire, this can be far more – at an early stage and at a time when no such process will possibly take place in Iraq can develop. That's why I think it's important that measures are taken at a very early stage, that you might have to go in and take out Saddam Hussein, and thus try to get the country back on foot before Saddam Hussein gets permission to use and develop the weapons arsenals he's most likely to hold. That Norway must participate in such a context, I am absolutely clear that we must, because that is our contribution to extinguishing fires beyond our own borders. I think this is such a big deal that it can be of the greatest importance to the whole world. As I said, almost no matter what form you have to go in, I'll support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e356	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e359	In our alternative budget and in the financial position, SV proposed a significantly lower framework than the Defence Government in 2003. A number of the cuts proposed by the Socialist Left Party are about cutting investment and new acquisitions. SV is conscious of the investments linked to participation in offensive international operations aimed at a possible invasion from the east. On operational means, we also cut in many areas, as we are of the opinion that there is still room for significant rationalisation and efficiency of defence. Norway has huge resources in the sea areas over which we have sovereignty, an area seven times our land area, which can feed 30 pst. by the people of Europe, impose a great responsibility on us. Our proper, sustainable management of these resources is a prerequisite for our legitimacy as administrators. It gives us the legitimate right to be responsible for the resources. In order to exercise this administration, we need to know what's actually happening out there. It is therefore good that the crisis management command for the northern regions of Retan and traffic centres be established, as clarified in the treatment of the fall vulnerability message. But the Coast Guard must also be strengthened and not weakened, as suggested. The rescue helicopter service should also be strengthened. SV has also asked on several occasions for an investigation of dry dock in Harstad in relation to the strategic needs of the defence in the north. In the opinion of the SV, there may be good reasons to bet on such a project in order to keep the operational capacity in the north as good as possible. We will follow up this matter further. There have been a number of killings of home-defence weapons in the last few years. It's a pleasure that a broad majority now goes in to remove the stamps on the anti-encephal weapons immediately, and then secure these weapons with a chamber lock. However, it is difficult to understand why this was not adopted this summer, when the matter was raised last time. I'm referring here to the line change. It's not right, as the representative Hernæs says, that new professional elements have been introduced in that period. But it's interesting to hear that herenæs confirms that the media press is the new moment. Having said that, I would like to say that I am pleased that these weapons are now being properly secured. It's about time. SV is committed to scrapping the plans for the establishment of the Eastern Region, which will be an expensive, unnecessary and very environmentally hostile project. Norway should instead seek cooperation with Sweden in meeting the needs for exercise areas. SV is also critical of Norway’s increasing availability of exercise areas to the NATO countries, and refers to the serious environmental impact identified in the planning of the Eastern Region, which is also subject to considerable disagreement and which is under way before the concession is granted. The Central Party and the SV therefore promote proposals for an independent analysis of the environmental impact in the Eastern Region, and I address this proposal. In the opinion of the SV, there is room for significant rationalisation of the Norwegian defence. We note that there was no majority in favour of the Socialist Left's proposal for a framework on this chapter when it was presented in the financial position with a savings of approximately NOK 4.5 billion. The SV has not made proposals for the framework distribution in the proceedings of the Defence Committee and will vote against the present suspension during voting, with the exception of the proposal for a Decision under XII on the removal of the stamp and the creation of a lock on the Home Guards, and the proposal for a Decision under XIII on a broad review of the structure of the Home Guard. Norway is at war in Afghanistan. SV has, as you know, opposed Norway’s contribution to the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation in Afghanistan. Norway has contributed far more to the war in Afghanistan than to humanitarian and peace building in Afghanistan this year. In the opinion of the SV, Norway should phase out efforts under ‘Enduring Freedom’ and concentrate efforts in Afghanistan on humanitarian aid and contribute to ISAF. The fight against terrorism cannot be won by military means, but by the deployment of a wide range of measures. St. pp. No 55 for 2001-2002 this was confirmed, and it states that: ‘there is much greater scope for applying the full spectrum of security policy instruments, primarily those: political, legal, political, diplomatic, economic, information, humanitarian and military’. [[1]] [[2]] [[3]] [[4]] [[5]] [[6]] [[7]] [[8]] I want to be the first to stress the need to resolve some long-standing and violent conflicts that today contribute to recruiting extreme and violent groups. This applies, inter alia, to: The Middle East conflict, the conflict in Chechnya, Colombia and Kashmir, but the effective fight against terrorism cannot be waged without the international community putting in great resources and political will to find fair and future solutions to such conflicts. The threat of terrorism can be reduced by military measures and can be prevented. Terrorist attacks must be prevented by effective intelligence and monitoring for early warning and detection of concrete plans. Excessive focus on military defence against terrorism has led to a serious imbalance in the relationship between resource use for increased civil security and security reduction measures on the one hand and military defence on the other. At a time of unclear threat images, it is important to develop a more comprehensive safety policy for Norway. There are many factors that are probably as important to Norwegian security as our relationship with NATO. It would be a great step forward if we in this room discussed more precisely this over, as most of the parties in the Storting today, with the exception of SV, pretending to be NATO is the only real guarantor in a crisis situation. Although there is currently no direct military threat to Norway, the Norwegian defence has performed important national tasks, in particular related to the strengthening of sovereignty and protection of our large and resource-rich sea areas. In addition, we have a significant role as an energy supplier against Europe that can make us vulnerable to being involved in conflicts. SV believes that it would be natural for Norway as a small nation with a large territory to prioritise these tasks rather than bet on a forward-looking position in international offensive operations, such as operations in Afghanistan. In the SV, we are in favour of Norwegian contributions to peacekeeping operations, but believe that it is natural neither for priority reasons nor for Norwegian security interests that Norway participates in operations such as ‘Enduring Freedom’, providing large forces for EU defence cooperation or rapid reaction forces in NATO. NATO has invited a number of new member countries, and I would like to stress that the Socialist Left has been critical of the enlargement process. Enlargement will increase the overall territory of NATO, the military strategic importance and also the strategic economic importance through the proximity to the huge petroleum resources of Central Asia. There is little evidence that this will dampen the conflict in the future. There has been considerable opposition to the NATO enlargement of Russia, and continued cooperation is needed to promote trust between NATO and Russia. It is positive that increased contact between Russia and NATO has been facilitated through the NATO-Russia Council, and enhanced dialogue may benefit Norway-Russia relations. However, I would like to stress that it is in our security interests to have active cooperation with Russia independently of NATO and that Norway should contribute more than today to solving serious social and environmental problems, especially in the areas bordering on Norway. In this context, it is very unfortunate that the budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Government involves cuts in this form of assistance. AMEC cooperation on the sound management of nuclear waste and conventional environmental problems from military activities is very important in this context, and I would ask the Minister of Defence to work actively to ensure a further American involvement in this, as well as a Norwegian. The NATO Summit in November 2002 decided to launch a NATO investigation into a comprehensive missile shield. The construction of rocket shields will result in a huge waste of resources and could lead to a new arms race, leading to an increase in security policy instability rather than increased security. At this meeting it was also decided to establish a rapid reaction force. Command structures are also being changed to adapt operations across the globe. This is a development based on a choice that NATO should have its tasks in combating terrorists and removing weapons of mass destruction. In the opinion of the SV, this role should not be attributed to NATO. Instead of extending NATO and introducing such instruments as were adopted in Praha, we should strengthen and build on pan-European and global security organisations such as the OSCE and the UN. Creating a fairer distribution of earth's resources and the elimination of poverty is both one of the main objectives of the UN and one of the most important measures to promote peaceful global development. This presupposes that the UN is given increased resources and the ability to operate through an economic policy serving the poorest. The UN also has a number of direct tasks related to peace and disarmament, conflict prevention and conflict mitigation. The UN Charter prohibits the war of aggression and obliges Member States to respect human rights. The SV will work to strengthen and enable the UN system to maintain legitimate use of power when necessary, but believes it is important to maintain strict restrictions on the use of power. As a small country, Norway has an interest in protecting the prohibition of the use of force by international law and in establishing restrictive rules for the use of force. Norway must contribute to strengthening the United Nations authority. In this way, it is difficult for Norway now to reduce its involvement in UN operations and to say no when the United Nations asks for participation and contributions in its new own operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e413	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e416	SV stands for the most aberrant option with a cut of DKK 4 billion, and most of it goes beyond investment and new facilities, i.e. modernisation of the defence. In other words, SV wants the old, good backpack defense. There is no secret that the SV and the Workers' Party were split as a result of disagreement in foreign and security policy. For example, in terms of NATO, the EU and participation in international operations, our pathways are distinguished to mention something. One of the arguments against the EU by the SV – or at least in 1994 – is that the EU is an exclusive rich man's club that shuts its doors to the new, fragile democracies of Eastern and Central Europe, was said to be. Now SV argues against a large, open and inclusive NATO, a NATO that has expanded to a total of ten member countries since the Berlin Wall fell in 1989. Does the honest and sincere representative Bjørklund think that it would have been better for NATO, that is, a NATO that has now concluded a comprehensive cooperation agreement with Russia, had not extended, or had the criticism then that NATO is a closed and exclusive rich man's club? Does not the change that NATO has undergone with Petersberg operations and the peace and stabilisation factor that NATO has become in Europe and elsewhere in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e426	I'm registering Halvorsen's invitation. What SV is trying to do in this situation is analyse it. I asked for more people in Stortinget to do that analysis. Because the choice we are now making, where we rely on NATO as the pillar that is to be our security and our guarantor in a conflict situation, is simply in our opinion a wrong strategy. We want, as I said clearly in my speech, to strengthen the role of the UN and the OSCE as the tool to mitigate the level of conflict on this globe. That is our main message, and we are holding on to that message. As for the extension of NATO, I referred to SV's view of it in my post. We assessed it so that it was natural for us not to demand that Norway as a member of NATO veto that extension. Instead, we will choose to strengthen cooperation with parties and organisations working towards NATO and NATO's current strategy. Everyone here knows the SV's position on the Norwegian announcement of NATO, but until the announcement can be realised, SV will work to ensure that Norway will contribute to changing NATO's concept, so that one specifies the respect for international law and the UN's sovereign role in the peace-building context, and that NATO abolishes the type of instruments that we now see NATO building up. That's our vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e437	SV has repeatedly expressed its dissatisfaction with Norway's participation in the military operations in Afghanistan since last autumn. I then ask a question to the representative Bjørklund: does SV really believe that the situation in Afghanistan would have been better for the civilian population and also for international security if military instruments had not been taken into account? We did that as a last resort to remove the Taliban regime, which supports the Al Qaida network. Does the SV not see the need for continued military operations and that these operations ensure the security necessary to normalise civil society in Afghanistan, but that the military forces are also necessary to secure and secure the humanitarian operations and aid operations currently being carried out in Afghanistan? How do SV and the representative Bjørklund address these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e446	When Afghanistan operations were launched last year, the starting point was not to establish better opportunities for humanitarian aid in Afghanistan. The starting point was to get bin Laden and the Al Qaida network. Later on, the starting point was that they tried to remove the Taliban. And then the argument has become that we are in Afghanistan to ensure peace and to contribute to the implementation of humanitarian aid. None of us now know what the outcome of the war in Afghanistan is. It will take many years before we can say whether one option gave a faster solution than the other, if there is a solution with peace in that country. We all have to hope for that, but we believe that the means that would have been tested to prevent the war in Afghanistan were not tested. We know that the Taliban said they were willing to hand bin Laden over to a Muslim third country, but the United States resisted it. We believe that there were other instruments than what was chosen, and we still believe that the instruments chosen are not the best ones to build Afghanistan as a peaceful society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e458	The representative, Bjørklund, was in the region of the eastern part of the country, something that was not expected — and a bit of an environment in that picture. Now it turns out that the environmental conditions for the Eastern region are better than ever before. Noise impacts are taken seriously in planning and good adaptations are made to minimise noise pollution. In the case of dwellings with the highest noise load, LCDN, higher than 55 decibels, the number of dwellings is reduced from 218 to 4 – and this is how much less noise this is. In 1996, the impact study only included noise from heavy weapons, while in 2002, it included all noise — noise from all weapons, vehicles, etc. The reduced noise level is due to the fact that after the release of the main Multiconsult report, as it says, adjustments have been made to the number of shots, stands, helicopter tracks and driving with tanks. These adjustments have been made with the aim of reducing the spread of noise to the environment. Then the question is: Is the representative Bjørklund satisfied with this, and can he accept noise that is less than, for example, in a gate in Lillehammer, in the representative's home state?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e471	There is no secret what kind of perception SV has had related to the region field of Eastern Europe for the whole time that has passed since that project was launched. Our greatest resistance to the Eastern region is linked to the needs that should require the development of such a large field of fire drills when we already have more than enough of the field of fire drills. There is strong disagreement about the environmental impact of the Eastern Region, not least with regard to the long-term effects of using a field with as large a part of ants draining into watercourses, with the consequences it will have in the long term. We know that this expansion was started without a concession being granted under the pollution law, and we believe that it is incorrect. We have now launched a proposal asking for an independent environmental analysis of environmental problems in this field, in order to resolve the conflict between the Defence and the environmental organisations. We believe that this is a good proposal, which could mitigate the level of conflict. That being said, of course, it is good that part of the prerequisite for the field is better explored, so that we get to know more about, for example. The noise, which Bredvold had in mind in his line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e483	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the Workers' Party defence agreement and the government parties arrived at for this four-year period, followed by the 2003 budget. It provides the necessary predictability and tranquility in the important and comprehensive migration process Defence is in the process of being implemented. The committee leader went through the main features of the setting in a good way, and I don't see it as necessary to repeat the areas that we agree on, and which have been explained in a clear way. The economic framework of 118 billion in 2002-krona for the period 2002-2005 provides a historically high framework for defence. The Christian People's Party believes that such a high framework is absolutely necessary in order to achieve the conversion of defence. And there is a need to balance objectives and instruments, to ensure a balance between a coherent and credible defence structure and adequate funding. The defence continues the necessary conversion as its main task in 2003. At the same time, it is important to maintain the ability to handle military tasks in Norway and in our neighbourhoods. In resource-rich sea areas under Norwegian jurisdiction, there is a significant presence of appropriate entities that can contribute to the firm and consistent enforcement of Norwegian sovereign rights if they are challenged. The aim of the change of defence is to establish a modern defence with significantly improved operational capability that can solve a wider range of tasks and that can in addition become faster and more effective than today. It is important to keep the necessary progress in planning and implementation. The Christian People's Party believes that the defence has a preventive and protective role in collective security. A central task of the Defence Agency is to contribute to preventing attacks or incidents that could affect society, individuals or Norwegian interests in an unacceptable way. Defence will be an important contributor to limiting the level of damage caused by various types of attacks and disasters. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to develop a total concept of society's security and vulnerability and refers to the treatment of St. reported. No 17 for 2001-2002, Social security, Innst. S. No 9 for 2002-2003 and the debate on 5 November this year. The overall civil protection, police and defence resources shall ensure that society is equipped to meet the challenges posed by modern terrorism. A total concept must strengthen cooperation between civil and military preparedness and define difficult grey areas in acute situations. The chapter on social security, for which I am the rapporteur, is presented by the Ministry of Justice, but dealt with in the Defence Committee. The draft budget for social security and preparedness in 2003 represents a continuation of the level of activity of the Directorate of Civil Protection and civil protection related to the security and preparedness of society. The Directorate for Civil Protection is responsible for assisting the Ministry of Justice in the overall planning, coordination and supervision of social security and preparedness. The majority of the Judicial and Defence Committees – all except the Advance Party – supported the Government's proposal to establish a new Directorate of Preparedness and Social Security when considering the matter in October/November. It was strongly underlined that, in reality, a new Directorate needs to be developed into a broad and powerful preparedness organisation. It was also agreed that it is important that the new Directorate should be established as soon as possible. Yesterday came a press release from the Government that the Directorate of Preparedness and Social Security is proposed to Tønsberg. The new Directorate shall be based on today's Directorate for Civil Protection, which is currently located in Oslo, and the Directorate for Fire and Electricity, which is located in Tønsberg. The supervisory message will be submitted to Stortinget in January. The Government aims to establish the new Security Directorate as from 1 July 2003 divided between Oslo and Tønsberg and a co-location in Tønsberg in the second half of 2004. The work on social security shall be based on the principles of responsibility, proximity and equality. If society is to be adequately prepared for crisis and war, it is necessary to demand preparedness for all levels of government, down to the individual citizen with responsibility for their own security. The idea of social security — to create a less vulnerable society — must be on the agenda in different contexts. It is necessary to have a conscious attitude as much as possible. It is a challenge and a responsibility for us to put it on the agenda where it falls naturally, even here in the Storting. Civil defence shall be a national reinforcement resource in the event of major accidents and disasters. The task of civil defence in war will continue to be of a preventive and damaging nature. The Directorate’s school activities are divided between the Central Civil Protection School in Heggedal, which has as its primary objective the provision of skills to emergency personnel in the entire civil defence area, and the Civil Defence Regional Schools located in Trondheim, Starum and Jären, which primarily train officers, instructors and civil defence officers. In addition, schools have cooperation agreements with voluntary humanitarian organisations and organise and provide training. Furthermore, schools develop, market and conduct courses in their own field of competence for external customers such as state, municipality and private business. Civil defence has a very central role in civil protection, and an overall committee considers it important that the assessment of the need for heightening skills in the field of emergency is carried out at the same time as changes in the school structure. When we dealt with St. Report. No 17 for 2001-2002 on social security on 5 November this year, the Stortinget decided to maintain schools in Heggedal and Jären. The Directorate for Civil Protection initiates and coordinates Norwegian participation in NATO cooperation on security and preparedness by safeguarding Norway’s interests in the NATO Civil Protection Senior Committee. The budget includes NOK 340000 for private transfers. It shall include, inter alia: cover co-operations for civil defence and non-governmental organisations that are part of the integrated peacetime rescue and preparedness function. Defence structures shall continue to work to concreteise and realise operational savings in the event of disposal and decommissioning. In 2003, cost-effective rentals are introduced, requiring a review of the needs and possibilities for the rational operation of the defence. The Committee asks the Ministry to ensure the speed of the disposal process. In order to optimise the reorganisation and liquidation of defence in some areas, good dialogue and close cooperation between Defence Buildings and individual municipalities are important. The majority of the Committee notes that transfers may be made free of charge or reduced in remuneration where appropriate, where appropriate, in the context of industrial development. This will apply to a few heavily burdened communities, and close cooperation is particularly important. A newspaper article in the Newspaper of December 3 on a girl who did not become a military negotiator shows that it is a piece of time before equality has fully penetrated. There are again some wordings in laws that point to times when women did not earn protection. I have raised the matter with the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for military negotiators. In the growth proposition we're dealing with today, there's a lot about women in Defense, and I want to mention a few points: A voluntary session for women will be considered in the context of the further development of the session scheme.Measures to increase women's knowledge of defence will be stepped up. In addition, measures shall be implemented to increase the admission of women to the comprehensive education of the Defence Force. A strategic plan for equality has been established in the Defence for clarifying responsibilities, frameworks and roles for gender and family policies, for equality also has an impact on the defence’s ability to be competitive and to have the ability to adapt. The family project in Inner Troms is also a positive measure. The aim has been to stimulate families to move together. The measures have been targeted primarily at spouses and cohabitants, with the assistance of education, the establishment of their own activities and the adaptation of their skills to local business. The test project has been successful and the project is continued. 750 000 kroner have been allocated to the project in 2003. Finally, I just want to say a little bit about Berea. The Christian People's Party is pleased that work is being done on considering the possibilities for the use of the war disability home as a welfare, recreation and competence centre for former UN and NATO soldiers and their immediate families. This project is continuing. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that there might be a center of expertise for refugees with war experience, so I ask that the Defense take on that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e561	The Government and the Working Party agree on most of this. But as with the Right, I need an explanation from the Christian People's Party on one question. According to the media, the Ministry of Defence will abolish defence efforts in Africa in 2003. Strategy papers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs mention a comprehensive African policy based on the United Nations, in which the rich countries are asked to impose a greater burden on the UN peacekeeping forces. I understand that the Defence and Professionals are in favour of a power collection and participation with larger units, as we see in NATO-led operations in Kosovo or US-led operations in Afghanistan. Then my question is: can the representative Wisløff Nilssen, on behalf of the state parties, answer what is the real government policy regarding peacekeeping forces in the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e568	The Christian People's Party has noticed that the international mission has decreased by 123 million. Compared with the 2002 budget, it is part of the pre-requisite for a defence framework of DKK 118 billion. During the planning period, this chapter was to have an upper frame of 900 million. kr. If you go over 900 million. kr for multinational operations, it will be proposed to cover it with the corresponding reduced framework in the 2004 and 2005 budget chapters, i.e. then you have to consider what you are going to spend the money for. That is what underpins what the representative said about a reduction or phasing out of the UN missions that we have in Africa. The Agreements expire on the end of the month of October/November of the Congo, Ethiopia and Eritrea and in June of Croatia. That's what's at stake. But the Christian People's Party will also stress the importance of Norway participating in international operations with the UN mandate or in the UN regime anyway. What is in Africa are peacekeeping operations. They are still important, and there are operations that need to be evaluated in a comprehensive way. We will expect, as the remark says, that the Ministry will come back to that in the 2004 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e574	In the context of the defence restructuring, the conversion of the top defence management is a significant part. As you know, the Progress Party does not want any integration of the Defence Command in the Ministry of Defence. In the context of the decommissioning of the Defence Command and the integration of the Chief of Defense and its strategic functions into the Ministry of Defence, a number of reorganisations will also be carried out in the defence management. The organisational changes will, according to the Government, be implemented in the summer of 2003 or as soon as it is practicable. This will require the re-location of the new structure in temporary premises. In this context, the Progress Party is very sceptical about the economic aspects of this. It is expensive to carry out a physical transfer of offices from one place to another, and it is known that this is a temporary solution. The Progress Party is wondering whether the Government has carried out an estimate of the total cost of the temporary relocation in isolation and how much costs will be incurred for the whole of the new co-location total with the construction of new buildings and the rental of temporary premises. The Progress Party fears that these costs may be enormous in relation to the potential gain achieved through integration and co-location. Has the Christian People's Party and the representative Wisløff Nilssen really considered this and found the best solution in relation to just costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e581	The Christian People's Party believes that we have found the best solution, by putting down the Defence Command and integrating the Chief of Defense and his strategic functions into the Ministry of Defence. We see that it is the absolute best solution to get a powerful and good control of the defense, with short lines and the possibility of a very close and close cooperation. The main starting point is to get good organisation and good management, and then costs have to come next. Both sales and initial investment must then be set against each other. I don't have the numbers here, but my opinion is that the solution now available is a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e586	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e589	Defence continues to face major challenges in terms of the change in defence over the years to come. It is necessary to adapt to a new threat picture, to adapt to new structures and tasks in a NATO that is also changing rapidly. One of the major reorganisations that some public sector agencies have ever carried out, and also in a short time, should continue. This makes great demands both for management and for the personnel within the Defence Organisation. There is also reason to give credit from this point of view for the will shown within the Defence Organisation to achieve the objectives set by the Storting and to carry out the reorganisation adopted by the Storting. The defence depends heavily on having both legitimacy and trust in the civilian population. Some incidents in the last year have contributed to a weakening of this confidence, and it is essential that both the Council of State and the leadership of the Defence Agency as well as the personnel of the Defence Agency make it possible both to restore confidence and to have strong confidence in the population. It's unfortunate that you get into situations like this that we've experienced in the last year. I would like to add that even in a situation where there is a great need for conversion and major requirements for conversion, and also in so far as the need for rapid conversion is concerned, it is necessary to clarify that this does not have to go any faster than that both quality, internal control and safe procedures in what is being done are maintained at a high level. Of course, it is important to focus on international relations and on NATO's new concept, of which we are part, where we are to adapt within the framework that lies there, the framework that Norway must also have an opinion about, and that we must be involved and influence in the direction that we think is best served. We must not just unilaterally adhere to the guidelines that come, but have a self-esteem of what is best. But while doing this, we must not forget the importance of the national tasks to be carried out. Monitoring, resource control and presence in our large and important sea areas are one of the central tasks for which defence is to be carried out. I still believe that one of the most important things we as a nation can contribute also in the international context is to have control in the northern regions as well as to have a good neighbourhood in the northern regions. I can therefore only complain that neither the Government nor the majority of the population have found to be a priority, for example. Coast Guard, so you can maintain activity in the north at the level you should have. Nor should we allow participation in international operations at the expense of operating capacities at home in such a way that they deteriorate unnecessarily. Now, when it's said, and unfortunately, it's probably also true, that only half of the Orion flights that we have in North Norway are operational, and that one of the planes is even used as spare parts for the rest, this is, to say the least, not satisfactory. A priority is needed between international and national activities, and it is not least necessary to prioritise within the national frameworks we have set and within the national tasks we have chosen to prioritise. And, in the opinion of the Centre Party, the presence in the North, coastal and marine areas and the control of resources is in a special position and are among the tasks that should not be prioritised in peacetime, regardless of what kind of international operations we find to be able to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e609	The central party is in favour of a lower budgetary framework than the settlement partners do. I take note of that. This way, the Central Party reduces the funding allocated to the National Safety Authority by 5 million. kr in its alternative budget. And they agree with SV on a note that is a bit curious, because it is based on one staff case that reveals ‘weak self-control in NSM’. The NSM is set up on 1 January as a directorate, so I assume this is about the old security post. But I'm also a little surprised by the views of the Center Party on the National Security Authority, considering that if there's something we need in an anti-terrorism preparedness ahead, there's an increase in intelligence. I also want to remind you of the majority constellations that we had in the treatment of St.meld. No 17 for 2001-2002 to strengthen both national and international intelligence. Then it says in the Central Party election program for the current period that the Center Party is in favour of an integrated management of the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Command. Neither in the defence reform from today's nor in our position today's Center Party is involved in integrated management. They stand on the contrary with the Progress Party and are opposed. The centre party has gone very high on the track, among other things. in the class bomb case, and has even inserted a separate Document No. 8 proposals for national bans. Does not the Enoxsen and the Center Party realise that, despite the instructions and the decision to collapse, two class bombs on the Brain have just been dropped, underline the need for integrated management and both horizontal and vertical procedures that ensure that this does not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e620	I agree that routines are necessary to ensure that such things do not happen. The type of procedures shall be established in all parts of the public sector and throughout the State apparatus. However, it is not possible to organise the entire government as part of the ministry to ensure that that type of episode does not occur. If it is not possible to get explicit information about the political decisions from the big business via the ministry to the various state agencies, and what guidelines to follow, I honestly don't think it's possible to achieve it by sitting in the same house. The Minister of Defence confirmed in the open hearings that neither the Minister of Defense nor the Armed Forces knew anything about the release of class bombs on Hjerkinn, and it was not known the next few days after this had happened. There is therefore nothing at all to suggest that that situation would have been different with integrated management, unless there is a dramatic failure of the procedures in relation to the effect of Storting’s decisions on the executive bodies. This was a decision that, according to the Minister of Defence, was made at a lower level, and it would in any case not have helped if we had never had so much integrated management. When the Central Party has advocated such co-location as we do, it is because we want a clear and clear distinction between the leadership of the Defence and political leadership, primarily in order to maintain the legitimacy of the Chief of Defence on defence issues and to keep clear lines between political and military leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e629	First briefly in the justice sector: I have also registered that the voters were so showing that they made sure that the Central Party was not represented in all the Grand Committees, including the Justice Committee. Before I dress completely in the bag and ashes, I will await the vote in Stortinget on the building of alliances in the justice sector. But I may come back to the matter, and then with great pleasure if it turns out that I have been wrong in reality and not in the formalities. So to the defense. There's reason to ask what's happened to the former Central Defence Party. They were together on the 118 billion DKK frame as little as six months ago, so they're able to reduce the frame by a total of $2 billion in the last few months. That they have other priorities in the framework, we also saw in June, but now 2 billion dollars have disappeared in these months. And then it's the vicious rematch that the Center Party is conducting in the area of the region, this time at least in intimate cooperation with SV. I would like to ask: this proposal, where they are asking for an independent analysis of a research environment with environmental competence, could the representative of Enoxsen be so kind as to tell us who this independent competence is? I assume it's more than Nature and Youth you have in mind. And then to the note on environmental pollution in shooting areas in general, where the Regionfelt Eastland is mentioned together with Halkavarre and other shooting fields. In the case of the Eastern Region, the Central Party will not build it, but when they use Halkavarre and other shooting grounds in the same sentence, I have to ask if the Central Party is opposed to the shooting areas of the Defence in Norway on a general basis, and not just the Eastern Region. Otherwise, they have an explanation problem with their use of words along with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e640	The President will draw attention to the fact that bag and ashes will hardly be accepted as suits here in the hall!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e643	If I may, President – I don't think that will be necessary either!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e648	Good!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e652	I do not believe that the representative Hernæs has ever doubted that the Center Party is in favour of shooting ground on Norwegian soil. The Central Party is opposed to the Eastern Region, has always been against the Eastern Region, and believes that we have sufficient capacity and sufficient opportunities in existing shooting areas to carry out the missions to be carried out by the Defence Forces. It is clear that environmental pollution is a problem in all shooting areas, but the larger the areas we use when moving from one shooting field to another shooting area, the more the extent of environmental pollution will increase both geographically and in volume, and we also know that it is difficult to clean up in firing areas that are being closed. In addition, it is not possible to assume that the shooting area of the East is made up of large ant areas, where run-off and environmental problems will be greater than in areas where solid land and mountain areas are present. So this is definitely not a battle on the part of the Central Party, but we are of the opinion that any project that is not under way should be assessed as long as it is possible to assess it, and our position in relation to the Eastern region is firm. So to who's going to do an independent analysis. I am not able to answer that. Of course, nature and youth have made important contributions, and the representative Bjørn Hernæs should listen to all the objections that come in this context, but of course it is not Nature and Youth either the Center Party or SV have thought about. It is also not our job to point out who is going to do this independent analysis, but I do believe that even those who are followers of the shooting field, and who strongly want this field of fire, would have benefited from the fact that the environmental consequences had been determined in advance in such a way that they would later have been able to defend an unfortunate development in this field of fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e659	My reply to the representative of the Central Party also goes into the region field, which is not only a field of fire, but also a field of practice for our future soldiers, both women and men, in order to maintain peace. I find it regrettable that the representative from the Central Party and the Central Party in general is simply talking about the environment. There are also other issues to consider in relation to a region field, and that is the interests of the landowners. The centre party was at least before quite concerned about caring for the interests of farmers and forest owners, and I think that is what I see you going completely away from. And then I ask the representative, what do you really do with this, so what do you do with the values that are currently being affected by the region field, and the future loss of these? I have not heard anything from the representative about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e664	Firstly, there are definitely not only environmental reasons for the resistance of the Centre Party to regional fields. This resistance is fully justified both in terms of the extent of bet on this type of training field and in terms of where these training fields should be located. I stand here with the Defence Chief's Military Investigation Framework for the next long-term planning period. When you read this document, there's every reason to at least feel some anxiety about the future structure of the Defense. I think there is reason to be aware today that, with the extent to which we are now looking at adapting to NATO's new structure, with the extent to which we look at international operations, and with the means of defence, one of the central discussions in the next period will focus on the concentration of defence activities in fewer geographical areas. There is no doubt that for the Central Party and for me the presence in the northern regions has been important. It is important both in relation to land defence and in relation to maritime defence. I think one of the big discussions we're going to have in relation to the document that the Council of State has sent to the Chief of Defence will be a discussion about the concentration of the Army's activity in fewer areas, precisely considering what the Forces of the Army will be used for in the future in relation to this document. In fact, I believe that we would have served to strengthen the presence in the north rather than build a heavy unit in the East, as we do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e669	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e672	Good social security requires a systematic ability and willingness to prevent and address all possible events and challenges. It must not be the case that tragedies and accidents call for the action of politicians. It was the Bondevik I government that reduced the Vulnerability Selection, without there being a specific incident behind it, and it was the Bondevik II government that followed up with the Vulnerability Message. In the meantime, both the Åsta accident, the Sleipner accident, the Lillestrøm near disaster and 11 September showed us the need to think, plan and work for increased social security. The terrorist attacks in the United States showed us so much too clearly that modern society is vulnerable when war is not waged by the military power of the country against the military objectives of another country, but by hidden terrorists with hidden weapons that hit civilian targets. Good social security also requires that responsibility and preparedness are broadly, locally and publicly anchored. All serious incidents occur locally, and it will almost always be the local resources, not from a central point of view, that have to deal with the natural disaster or the major accident. The interaction between police, health services, fire and rescue facilities and voluntary Norway is fundamental here. Our rescue and preparedness services depend entirely on local relief teams and volunteer teams, besides part-time firemen, civil defence peacekeeping personnel and civil protection soldiers who are being delayed at home or at work. These teams have local knowledge, they can interact, and there are no special forces that can take over that role. I am aware that several people in the Defence – and even in the Workers' Party – want to abolish the general duty of protection and instead get a small professional army, who are going to serve in the world, who can come and rest and train at home. It is important that Norway assumes responsibility as a member both in NATO and in the UN. But in the wake of it also comes the demand to build down the Home Guard, despite the new responsibility of Home Guard in our territorial defense. Home Security only takes a few percent of our defence budget, and there can hardly be any desire to take over the limited resources of Home Security that constitute the motivation for such an initiative. No, it's about what defence Norway is going to have. An ongoing high level of protection based on a general duty of protection contrasts with the type of defence that both the officer and the Workers' Party think highly about. I am pleased that we have a government that still insists that the Home Guard should consist of 83 000 crews, that the Porsangermoen, Værnes and Heistandmoen are maintained as educational places, and that funds have been put in for increased practice. Therefore, the protection of the home becomes the guarantor of the general protection obligation. And from the left's point of view, it's like any profession to manage authority in society, whether it's the teacher, the policeman or the military, always has to recruit widely. Any profession of authority loses its authority at the time only one grouping is recruited to it. We can do that, for example. look at the police authority here in the city, if the police continue to be completely ‘white’. I am also pleased that the government has made the decision that the AG3 weapon of the Heimeverens AG3 is now being locked. But it doesn't have to be that it's just this investment and attention Home Security gets. The defence has a very large investment programme, and it is essential that the weapons and equipment of Home Security are modernised according to the key role of Home Security in the defence of Norway. And I hope the Minister of Defense can guarantee that it will be done. Modern equipment and premises are also motivating for many officers and volunteering teams far beyond the service obligation. Technological development means that the threat to our security can be both large and small. Then our security forces must have the technological ability to combat it, with both the big and the small and the distant and the close forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e691	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e694	Now it is the case that the Left does not sit on the Defence Committee. I am therefore somewhat uncertain as to whether the parliamentary leader of the Left is actually joining in the defence debate, or whether she has at all read the position today or, for that matter, the position adopted in this House on 19 June this year, on the implementation of the defence reform. It has been clarified by the conciliators, which are therefore the Workers' Party and the government parties – we agree on each and every note in both of these settings – that Home Protection is and must be one of the most important parts of the Defense in an anti-terrorism preparedness. And it is also on that basis that the majority of the committee, which then consists of the same parties, has asked for an investigation into the future organisation of Home Affairs in order to modernise Home Security to be adapted to an anti-terrorism preparedness, including in particular. emphasis on increased differentiation. It's also true that the same parties are, of course, ringing around and insisting on the general duty of protection, which is now decided to be what the Defense at any time defines as need, and which has previously been defined as about 50 pst. by the male population. But does not the Left's parliamentary leader see that there is actually a need to discuss different measures to strengthen the protection obligation when there are few in the youth schools who take the duty of protection? Does not the President of the Left see that there is a need to discuss, for example: the inclusion of women in the session, which is also part of the proposal of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which is now in the Ministry of Defence? And does not the parliamentary leader of the Left see that we need to look at incentives for the best to take care of the duty of protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e701	I don't know if it's because in my post I would have chosen to focus on one of the main areas that is most important to the Left, that the committee leader takes a little bit of a teaching tone towards the group that is not represented in the committee. But we are fully aware of this. This will be discussed by the Government. We fully agree on this. My starting point in relation to the duty was a representative from the Workers' Party who thought loudly in a lunch broadcast I heard on the radio. And I think it's important that you also bring some principles into this room. In the program on the left, this is very clear. In any society, in the jobs that manage authority, it has to be recruited widely. It can't be that there's a certain type of guy that you can point out to school in the seventh grade, that ends up in Defense. The debate on how this is organised – to have that breadth in the recruitment process – I think it is important that we take. We're open to talk about that. But the defense must not consist of one type of human being or one sex. We need to figure out how we're going to be able to have a width of defense, so that we get a defense that has authority in all walks of life and in all parties, and that all citizens of this society feel behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e708	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e711	The budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2003 is a good budget and a predictable budget. The agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party last year means that during this long-term period there will be no big surprises, and that's good. The most important job in 2003 will be to make the joint management and command system work. As rapporteur of the case, I believe that the Minister of Defence will use resources and forces to achieve integrated strategic management and the creation of a new armament. I am absolutely convinced that the new organisation of the top management of the defense will serve the defence and society too. The defence is in a gigantic transition situation. From the traditional invasion defence of the Cold War, we are moving towards a modern reaction defense. It's an important and wild development. At the same time, we have had a radical development in the number of young men implementing the traditional protection obligation. Int. S. No 342 for 2000-2001 the Workers' Party and the Advance Party stated that the defence's needs should be governed by the allocation of the input strengths to the initial service. The current government parties noted at the time that the general protection obligation would be seriously undermined if the conversion plan of the Stoltenberg government were implemented. However, when dealing with the implementation proposition in ours, there was a unanimous committee that felt that the needs of the defence were going to be governing. But let's put rhetoric aside and discuss politics. We face major challenges in terms of protection. The protection obligation is a support bar in the Norwegian Defence Force. There's several reasons for that. However, it is extremely important that the duty of protection be, and be perceived as, fair. These include: This is the background to a unanimous committee in our bad government coming to Stortinget with a broad review of the duty of protection. This review must, in particular, make proposals that increase the status of the protected persons. Here, as politicians, we must dare to think again, both about what the content of the service should be, and in other ways to raise the status of Ola and Kari soldiers. An example of this is the proposal for the possibility of studies that give weights in the new Bachelor’s degree in the first time. Furthermore, the defence must become more competent to put the right man in the right place, and finally: it will also be important to discuss that increasing justice and improving the conditions of guardians is not necessarily free of charge. Only if we have the power to do this will the defense get the best kids in the future. I would also like to point out that in today's position there is a broad majority on the Stortinget that emphasises the proposal for a session for women specifically. I would ask that the Council of State put these words and thoughts on memory in the work that is now in progress, and look forward to the Government coming to the Grand Government with this matter, hopefully in the near future. This will allow Stortinget to hold a fundamental debate on the obligation of protection. Modernisation of defence means adapting to the new reality. This implies a greater degree of specialisation. For Norway, this means that we can contribute, in particular, to strategic maritime transport capacities, support vessels for frigates and special forces, which are particularly trained for cold winters and low mountain ranges. Mining is another example. These are things that Norway is good at and that we need to develop further. We also showed through KFOR 5, which was led by General Skiaker, that we have the competence to conduct major and important international operations. We must not underestimate the extent to which this contributes to raising the competence of the Defense at home. I would like to underline the importance of Norway participating in international operations with the United Nations mandate and with the United Nations. It's not like the color of your helmet matters. International operations are an example of how symbolism policies, real policies and not least good and sensible policies go hand in hand. International operations are budgeted for a budget of over DKK 1 billion until next year. It is such that the exceedance exceeds 900 million. kr shall be covered with the corresponding reduced frameworks in 2004 and 2005. I will challenge the Council of State on the question of whether she feels absolutely certain that the framework for international operations is large enough in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e732	The challenge now is to develop the defences of Norway and NATO adapted to a new reality and a completely new security policy situation. It requires significant change in the way we think about it. We used to have a strength-oriented military idea based on the size and number determined by geography. Before that, the defenses were separate, both organisationally and doctrinally, and they collided with each other on resources. Before that, we used the size and the number as a defense measure. Today, the threat is unpredictable, asymmetric and allows little time for mobilization. We don't know who the enemy will be, or where a threat situation will arise. Therefore, Norway and NATO need to acquire capabilities that give us the ability and a wide range of options to deal with a crisis or threat. A military operation in Norway or NATO will not necessarily be about defending a certain limit, but about responding quickly, quickly enough to avert or face a threat. We have to be able to tailor a reaction to the current situation. We need power-based joint or joint operations. We need real capacity, not a number of power units without the ability to act. Chief Commander of NATO forces in Europe, SACEUR, General Ralston, said so in October: When the problem is to enter a nail, you use a hammer. NATO has in the past made bigger and bigger hammers. Today we do not know the problem in advance. It could be screwing in a screw or splitting two wires. And no matter how big a hammer you have, it doesn't solve the problem. The army is moving, from heavier forces to lighter, more flexible and movable units. Stelth technology for both aircraft and marine provides invaluable protection against enemy radar, and precision-guided weapons are more important than number. In addition, we now have a growing gap between the United States and Europe, not in number, but in ability. The United States has 1 400 fighter planes. The rest of NATO has 2,900 fighter planes, the double. However, because Europe lacks precision weapons, lacks planes and ships with Stelth characteristics, lacks ‘jam capacity’ that could disrupt hostile radars, lack air to ground surveillance and lack air refuelling capacity, Europe is totally dependent on the United States to respond to current threats, despite twice as many fighter aircraft. All sectors of society have changed rapidly. In the defence sector, doctrines, organisation, equipment and, above all, thinking change. No modern company, whether in the public or private sector, can have incompatible data equipment. The defence does not work with incompatible equipment either. We must have interoperability between defence sectors, between allied nations and between people. That's what we get with common education, joint exercises, joint investments and joint operations. That gives us real defence of Norway. Then we must have forces that are rapidly movable to where the threat is, to the north or to the south. We have to be durable enough, we have to be well trained, and we have to be well equipped. It requires a strategic vision based on tomorrow's threats. It requires a plan to transform visions into relevant military capabilities, and it requires political will to implement. We have that in Norway. We agreed on a four-year strategy, adopted in June. We agree on an investment plan in new capacities, both nationally and multinationally, over the Prague Capabilities Commitment, adopted in November, and we are willing to implement, expressed in terms of the fact that, for other government budgets in a row, we have a majority for more money and increased power of action. Today, the budget is 2 billion kroner higher than when I took over a year ago. This is willingness to change in practice. But we also need enthusiasm – not false enthusiasm, but enthusiasm based on knowledge that we are now on the right track, based on understanding of overall goals and that we are actually making important and correct priorities. We are increasing the presence in the north strongly. I have a letter from the Coastal Squad from Wednesday saying that the presence in North Norway for 2003 is increasing. It says: ‘– KNM Valkyria with its towing and rescuing capacity will have a greater presence in North Norway.’; this has significant preparedness implications. It goes on to say:’– The frigate presence in the NN will be more than doubled. From 8 to 26 weeks.– External Coast Guard is strengthened in the part of the country by ingesting a seventh vessel.«– The Marine Marine Concentration in NN is generally strengthened and includes the two major exercises Joint Winter 03 and Flotex 03.» And in the longer term, the presence in North Norway will be enhanced when all the 14 vessels in Hauk class are finished modified and new Skjold-class MTBs and new frigates have come together. We increase the importance of Norway through increased allied focus on Norway and Norwegian interests by having high ambitions for alliert training here – in Finnmark, in the inner Troms, on Voss, Mjølfjell and along the coast. We make Home Affairs even more relevant in larger geographical areas, better equipment, better command and increased specialisation. We strengthen the Maritime Defense through, as I have said, new frigates, MTBs, coastguard helicopters, coastal hunters, and all 14 Hauk ships are upgraded. We strengthen the Air Force through our fighter aircraft cooperation, new helicopters, and speed up tank and transport aircraft solutions through NATO. We are concentrating the Army on the forces of the Rena in the south, with the new open-air classroom in place, and increasing the security effort in the sixth division of Troms, the very well of strength for high-quality soldiers, like the ones we use in Kosovo. In addition, we are increasing the number of Norwegian special forces, which have proved to be an invaluable resource. We have world-class niche capacities: marine hunters, army fighters, mine divers, explosive cleaners, movecontrol units, and RBC personnel. We have volume and niches that express ability, not just numbers. We have the ability to defend ourselves here at home, and we get a lot of recognition in NATO. I understood that my good colleague, Mr Width, was not very proud of Lord Robertson. I can kind of understand that, because he's a former politician. But I also know that the Progress Party is concerned with professional military advice. I would therefore like to quote the SACEUR, the commander of the forces in just Europe, who says: "I'm very proud of what Norway has done". He also says that both Norway and other allies ‘must spend their precious resources wisely,’... ‘cutting outdated and redundant fat from their forces.’ It is not just at the political level in NATO Norway that has full support. It's also at the highest military level. I know that professional-military advice is emphasized both in the Advance Party and in other parties. There have been a number of issues in the debate so far, including: that Akershus integration costs money. The truth is that we use vacant premises owned by the Defense and that we cannot sell because they are protected areas. But Huseby can be sold and put hundreds of millions of dollars into the prize. There have been questions about whether we have the ability to defend ourselves, not least in the presence in the north. The two-day old letter from the Coast Guard shows that we have it to the highest degree. Five out of six Orion aeroplanes will also be fully operational in January. There have been questions about our presence, among other things. in Afghanistan, it goes beyond Africa. It's not like we're stepping down on the presence in Africa, which we've been on since 1999 and 2000 because we're going to use it for Enduring Freedom. It's natural, when projects go to the end, to go into the highest priority UN projects. At present, it is the UN-led force of ISAF that we are increasing with civil-military presence. And the government has provided a budget of DKK 3 billion in aid to Africa, the highest ever. That's not the same thing as getting out of Africa. Things are related. Assistance is linked to international military operations to create peace and security, and Norway has the capacity to ensure peace and security, both at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e798	Let me first underline what the Council of State has expressed. There is agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties on a four-year strategy consistent with the structure, volume and financing of the Defence. Let me also add that, unlike the representative of the Progress Party, I am very proud that NATO Secretary-General Lord Robertson and also the military and political leaders that the Defence Committee met in the United States, commend Norway for being one of the first countries to go to such a streamlining and restructuring of defence adapted to new threats. When the consensus is so big, the question may become a little less important – but still: In a previous line to the representative Hernæs, Gunnar Halvorsen took up what happened a late evening or night between the Advance Party and the Right, where it was then that the Defence Building was ordered to sell property for another 100 million. DKK in addition to the budget of 100 million. kr. Because this year it's only been possible to sell for 60 million. kr. There is reason to believe that the 100 million then invested as part of the proceeds in the comparison between the Advance Party and the Right are notional money. So defence builders are not going to be able to get that money. In addition, they should not be ploughed back to the Defense Department, but, as far as I can see, to tax cuts on caravans, motorcycles and whatever it is. Then my question is: when we arrive at the autumn of 2003 and are about to deal with a new reclassification proposal for the financial year 2003, and Defence Buildings have only sold for 90 million. Is it, then, that 110 million are to be deducted from the defence budget because the Ministry of Finance is going to use it for car hire?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e807	First of all, I would like to say that everyone cut as Finance Minister Per-Christian Foss identifies, of course, is serious. I have even realized that this extra sale of buildings within the budget area of Defence Building is so serious that the Workers' Party has also used it. And of course I wouldn't dream of suggesting that neither Hill-Marta Solberg nor former Minister of Finance Stoltenberg would take this opportunity if it wasn't very serious. But what this challenge underlines is the need for speed in Defence Buildings to prepare projects for sale. And it really underlines the need to take advantage of market forces here and sell to the maximum bidder. It may also underline the need to actually take in real estate agents and others in the private market to help us with the task. And not least, it underlines one thing that I know that the representative Nybakk and I agree very much, that the sooner we can sell Huseby, and at a higher price, the easier it is to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e814	It was nice to hear the Council of State come with some positive information, among other things. That our presence in North Norway is increasing, as she said. She also said that the outer coastguard is increasing. It sounds a little self-contradictory to what I understand, when two private coastguard vessels are not hired, and we may need to reduce further. But there's probably an explanation for that. Otherwise I have to say that I am a little surprised that to those degrees you are blinded by boasting. Professional advice is not always right. There's someone over here who can probably verify it. I think that to some extent sometimes, and I think also in this case, say most of all about those who come with these scorching ointments. What I really wanted to get back into is what has been stressful many people here today, and it's HV and the things that are now done in relation to the lock, which we're completely in agreement with, as we've said before, and that will change the nature and structure of the Home Security before you get the review you're looking for. So you do things the other way around. After all, many derogations must be granted, and how has the Council of State actually envisaged that this should be carried out? It takes, for example: two years – there is no immediate action – to have the locks retracted, and they must grant exemptions, perhaps to reserve officers to train, to members of shooting teams to train, and others who are enthusiastic about Homeland Protection, of which we know we have many. How has the Council of State actually planned to implement this measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e823	I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the representative Width registered the latest information about presence in the north that I received from the Coast Guard two days ago, because I think many of us are concerned about stressing that the international operations we are involved in are not at the expense of the activity here at home. These are two different budgets, and they are largely different capacities. Then I would like to say that I agree with the representative, Width, that you should not be blinded by boasting. But recognition from NATO's top competence, both political and professional, must be taken into account. I also agree with the representative Width that professional-military advice is not always right, and that is actually one of the reasons why the government is so concerned about getting integrated political leadership and professional-military management, because we think together we can actually make better decisions. And we think in many situations it's hard to identify purely professionally military advice without having clear political implications. On the other hand, when it comes to locks, I listen to professional military advice. Both the GIHV and the head of defense have given explicit notice that they need a lock. They have also informed that they will be able to do so in practice. I also know that GIHV's district managers unisontly support the lock of the chamber. Why? Well, that's because of things like, for example, The representative, Mr Enoksen, referred to earlier – the reputation of the defence. Goodwill is the most important asset in a company. Everyone who has run a business knows that. And goodwill can be lost. Therefore, we cannot risk losing goodwill when there are cures that can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e834	Norway is the country in NATO, with the exception of the United States, which uses most of it for defence purposes per year. In most European countries, the population is about twice as high as that of most European countries. SV is of the opinion that much is wasted in defence, and believes there is room for significant rationalisation and efficiency. This was made clear in the SV's report from this summer on waste, where we among others. pointed out the so-called GOLF programme. I would like to quote from the remarks in the budget statement on this: ‘The Committee refers to Innst. S. No 232 where a unanimous committee pointed to previous negative experience with complex information systems and therefore asked that all aspects of the GOLF programme be assessed on an ongoing basis and that the Stortinget be informed in the annual government budget as the project develops, including the cost aspects.The Committee would stress the importance of the Government returning to the Stortinget with information after the completion of the delivery project 1.» [[2001-2002]] Computerworld, February 8, 2002, reads: ‘The Court of Auditors is examining the work done on the GOLF project and a report is expected during the year’.» In addition, it says: ‘In the autumn of 2001: The National Audit Office will start its review and review of the Economic Project, which will be renamed the GOLF project, now the GOLF programme. Possible report will be ready once in 2002.’ I would like to ask the Minister of Defence about the Riksrevision report has now been completed, and about what is now the cost estimate of the GOLF programme throughout the programme period.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e856	I am pleased to record that the representative Bjørklund has perceived a very important information from NATO, namely that Norway is the country that next after the United States spends most on defence. We do that because we have a long-term country, because we have a high level of security and security, and because we have an important responsibility, not least in our northern regions. That's also one of the reasons why we get the recognition that's been mentioned. I also agree with the representative, Bjørklund, that the defence should be very vigilant against waste. Just when managing resources of the magnitude we do, $118 billion in a four-year period, it's important that people feel confident that we act as carefully and carefully as possible. It also means that references from the National Audit Office have to be taken seriously, and we have to learn from them. In the case of one specific project, Golf, which is an IT project, it is also quite correct, as Bjørklund says, that most IT projects pose significant risks. And precisely because they pose significant risks, it is important to follow them closely. What I know was decided to link to the GOLF system in order to counter unbridled economic crackdown scenarios was to divide the project into phases. It was just done to care for Bjørklund's need in theory to at least stop after a phase if one suspected that this project was much more costly than one had thought. Originally, the whole project was intended as a whole, and that would mean a much higher risk. So at least I'm asking for recognition for it. In short, if I am allowed: I am not aware of whether the Riksrevision report is completed, but I can inform about it in other ways if it is desirable for Bjørklund to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e867	The story of the hammer and the nail that the state councils pulled in their introduction is good. I also have some experience with hammers and nails, and it's definitely that a heavy hammer needs fewer strokes to strike the nail than a light hammer. Of course, it's not whether the hammer is big or small, but the worst thing to get out of is if the hammer is on some kind of a job in the neighborhood and you stand there and suddenly need it. It could be critical enough. Now I was going to go over to a slightly more domestic matter and just ask the Council of State for an explanation in relation to the X of the draft budget, in order to clarify the premise for the vote of the Central Party on that Roman Numeral Decision. The comments state that: ‘The Government may entrust... constructions and installations which the Defence no longer needs to be provided to municipalities or to a large number of defence personnel in connection with the exploitation of establishments for the development of economic activity. The transfer may be made free of charge or reduced in remuneration where appropriate.» I would like to have the Council of State's confirmation that in that case this will be regarded as part of a termination payment, part of a final package, so that you do not get into a situation where both take-off incentives and free business property will be put at the disposal. To take a close example: if a former employee of the Defence Agency starts selling white goods, it would not be particularly beneficial if you could both pick up a large part of your future salary from the Swedish Defence Agency's take-off pay and then have free business premises. I assume that the Council of State intends to ensure that this happens in a sensible way that does not help to compete out of already existing local businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e879	With some experience from the use of hammers: if the hammer is so big that you can't control it, you don't hit the nail – it's also in the transferred sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e882	In addition, some operations require hammers and other operations require screws. If it's screwy you need, it doesn't matter that you've borrowed the hammer from your neighbor. In Norway versus international operations with Norwegian presence, at least we do not participate in international operations in a way that weakens preparedness. Our budget is 900 million. kr going to international operations. It is firm, which means that no money is taken from the other operating budget to – to use that image expression – borrow the hammer from the neighbor. Then back to the question of the X budget proposal, of power to derogate from the waste directive. This is a mandate that already exists today. If there are areas that are planned to be used for economic activity, there is an option to derogate from the disposal directive. But I agree with what the representative, Mr Enoksen, says that we should be careful about how to practice it. Of course, there are two different decisions, who gets the take-off package, and in which cases one deviates from selling at market price. My general position is that we should sell at market prices as often as possible, and preferably every time, although I see it may be an exception. However, the fact that we are more careful with the allocation of take-off packages today than we were when the scheme was introduced is equally clear. For the Riksrevision, there were some references in the introduction to the take-off package system, where departure packages were given to people who were later hired back to the Defense Department, and then you get a very unfortunate double role, which you have now stopped. That means, of course, that I would suggest that you have the same caution, even though there are two different institutions that adopt these things, in order to avoid the kind of unfortunate connection that the representative Enoch has.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e891	Now there was a lot of talk about tools instead, so now I get to talk a little bit about jobs. In recent months, several thousand jobs have been lost in industry. In other words, Norwegian industry is in a very serious situation. For the Workers' Party, it is particularly important that Norway has real alternatives and is actively involved in making Norway's largest defence policy investments – the acquisition of new fighter aircraft. Alternatives will allow Norway to influence price, aeroplane ability and Norwegian industry participation, to mention something. Norway has already concluded a development agreement with the US authorities on participation in the JSF. The State budget states that during the autumn of 2002 an additional agreement will be concluded with Eurofighter. It should create greater competition and better opportunities for participation in Norwegian business and industry. The Council of State may explain the relative position of this agreement per year. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e903	Of course, I share Mr Lund's concern about jobs – not least in industry. That is the main reason why it was so important to reach a budgetary agreement that facilitates tax burden on the same business community, not to exacerbate the situation, but rather improve it. With regard to opportunities for Norwegian industry, it is also right that we participate in a development project – Joint Striker – together with a number of other NATO countries, which will provide Norwegian industry with good opportunities if we are competitive, and that is what we are. The first contract is already signed. It was 80 million. kr, and there is almost as much as the entrance ticket to the JSF programme in one year. And several other companies are qualified as absolutely current partners. With regard to the Eurofighter Agreement, it is not that everything is still in place, but there have been several meetings that have been very positive, which have identified Norwegian industrial companies that are willing to participate and invest themselves with a special interest, so that the Ministry of Defence may be able to identify funds for such an industrial development agreement with Eurofighter. This can also be done by our presence in the Eurofighter project. However, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the JSF project and the Eurofighter project are not being equated in the sense that they are fully involved in both development projects. Within the 118-framework, there were only funds to be a full member of one of the two projects, approx. 400 million. kr during the period. However, we are still trying to identify, within a diverse heading linked to industrial development cooperation by the Ministry, some means that, together with the industry's own resources, can enable us to have sufficient contact with Eurofighter to ensure that there is real competition when we take the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e914	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e917	All countries need a defence both for their own security and to help others when required, including Norway. I think that's what everyone agrees on, but in terms of size and scope, there's a big difference in the priorities of the individual parties. For the Progress Party, there is no doubt that Norway needs and must have a defence it respects. Norway's size, scale and not least our interests in oil and fish, and finally our location, mean that the Progress Party is somewhat disappointed by the smaller contribution of the other parties to this. The Progress Party wants a budget where the defense is given full opportunities to do the job that politicians do. Then the purse must be proportionate to the orders we give them. The Progress Party wishes to see a timely defence of national security and international engagement. The Progress Party wants departments with a reaction capability adapted to a larger range on the conflict scale. When the Storting broke up in the summer of 2001, there was a majority in favour of strengthening defence and not lack of funds. A structure costs money, and these must follow. Home security has been discussing relatively much this fall, unfortunately perhaps most because of the tragic incident in the Kongswinger area. It focuses on the chamber locking and retraction of the plunger needle, not on the role of the HV. Stamps are adopted as an immediate arrangement and locks are introduced over a three-year period, against the votes of the Progress Party. The progress party believes that this intervenes far and deep into the HV, how precisely they should be in place quickly and not least able to fight. In the view of the Progress Party, the decision will reduce the preparedness of the HV. Key issues will be ours, and I see with excitement how this will be solved. Today, in the case of the weapons that are equipped with this type of fuse, approx. 3,000 pieces, key to the individual. Another solution might be thought of. In Norway, about half of the drugrelated deaths are reported. 1500 000 weapons of hunting and competition were registered, while it is about 70,000 HV weapons. In a 15-year period, 1987–2001, 629 deaths were committed in Norway, the vast majority with knives. A very small number – even though one murder of course is one too much, it should just be lacking – is done with HV weapons. And then there's something dramatic to do about HV's structure because of this. The Progress Party wants to increase the transfer to Home Affairs. This is in order to meet the needs of Home Protection in order to carry out necessary and timely training and education. Materially, Home Affairs is facing challenges, which we must take into account in the budgetary frameworks ahead. The Progress Party believes that with a strength of 83 000 soldiers and a significant reorganization, HV, like the other arms, must have predictability in its budgets, and precisely budgets adapted to the desired level of activity. More than in the past, account must be taken of the recent development and use of HV soldiers, including commanders, in peacetime in the context of preparedness for terrorism and the like. It is also necessary to look at the need to strengthen the HV Specialised Division. On this basis, the Party wishes to increase the transfer to HV by 20 million. kr for operation. When we talk about money, the Progress Party also wants to increase the allocation to the Coast Guard by 30 million. kr for operation, including within the framework. Moreover, the Progress Party is concerned that the defence has been affected by the VAT reform in such a way as to entail additional costs such as: hiring of vessels for the Coast Guard. This means that the Coast Guard is less able to perform its tasks under already tight budgets, if not compensated. Otherwise, the Progress Party will point out that the conversion of defence in several areas is required. In other areas, national defence may be weakened, which can hardly be in the interests of NATO, an organisation to which Norway should have the very best relationship. The Progress Party has referred to this year's budget and looks with some concern at Norway's role in NATO. With the economic framework underpinned by this budget, there is reason to worry about Norway's ability to maintain a credible commitment to NATO. This is in relation to the lack of willingness of the other parties to provide sufficient money for operation and necessary investments. Norway has both a national and a NATO-related responsibility to discharge in defence. NATO needs to be given clear signals that Norway is seeking to maintain and develop its defence structure and mobility for the benefit of both Norway and NATO. Norway has to increase its participation in international cooperation when probably 75 pst. by the material of the defence will be purchased abroad, and when it is known that international cooperation constitutes only 7 pst. until 2005. If Norway is to maintain a competitive defence industry, Norway must be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e943	Norway is currently taking part in a war in Afghanistan where we have fighter planes over Afghanistan and where we have Norwegian pilots flying over Afghanistan. The basis for Norway’s participation in Afghanistan can be discussed to the greatest extent. We have an international debate on a possible future war in Iraq. It is seriously discussed whether Norway can become one of the warring parties in relation to participation in warfare in Iraq. The basis for Norwegian participation in a war in Iraq can be discussed to the greatest extent. We see that NATO is in the process of completely changing its strategy from a defence concept where the main principles that have been established have been to defend the participating countries against outside attacks. Instead of the NATO we went into, we see a change of NATO to a NATO that seeks to attack threats outside its own territory. It's a whole new strategy that can be discussed to the maximum extent. What we see in Norway today is that it is not discussed at all. The fall of 1965 invited then Foreign Minister John Lyng from the Right to an open debate in the very same hall as is almost empty here today, and there was a hall that was filled, where all the party actively participated, in a situation where the United States was at war with Vietnam, and where the Right had initially favored the warfare. Nevertheless, Minister of Foreign Affairs John Lyng invited him to an open debate on the question, for he saw that it had its principal sides, and he wanted as many parties as possible to participate in that debate. In 1965, Norway was in an alliance pact with the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact, and the cold war was groundless. Today, it is difficult to define Norway’s external enemies. Today, we are not invited to take part in any such debate, on the contrary, both Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen and the Minister of Defence are seeking to put a lid on that kind of debate because Norwegian policy is firm. There is such a lack of confidence in the policy to be determined that there is no chance of making it open and debated. The illustration of the need for transparency in the Norwegian community has been given over the past few weeks through the «Fire Point» programme on the Mehamn accident. Even I asked the Minister of Transport of the Government in March about the same accident. At that time in NRK Finnmark there was information about the accident, which was already known in 1988, through the book «No known traffic» by Oddvar Kristoffersen, Bjørn Nilsen and J. Ludvig Solvang. Not much new information has been produced since then. But a climate for a review commission was not in April 2002. The Minister for Transport replied at that time: ‘I cannot see that any new information has emerged that would allow any new investigation to add further material to the case.’ No material information has been provided since that time. But today the government recognizes that you are going to have an investigation commission, and you recognize that it is the Stortinget that is to be responsible for it. What is the reason why the Government recognizes it? Without a free, independent press that puts searchlights on both the magnificence and government taking place, it had never, never been appointed, any new investigation commission around the Mehamn accident in the direction of the Stortinget. It makes the Minister of Transport’s response visible in April. Because it's through the media, through the free press, that it happens. Therefore, it is regrettable that the Government does not have a will, a courage, to debate — in a situation where Norway is in a war — open questions about Norway’s commitment and its consequences. That is why it is regrettable that the Government does not invite a debate, as John Lyng did in 1965, about central foreign policy issues related to Norway’s destiny. These questions require Norwegian people to be able to decide on, precisely on the basis of the open debates. As the Government now puts it up, it will be very difficult for the opinion to form a clear impression of what the Government is doing, and what is the real situation both in Afghanistan and at the moment in Iraq, based on the Government's organization of the information flow. It is very worrying, and it gives cause for concern that what was possible in 1965 should not be possible today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e963	Norwegian defence is in front of one of the largest investments ever. If not too many years, Norway will go to the acquisition of new fighter aircraft to replace today’s F-16. There are many considerations that need to be taken into account when acquiring the new aeroplanes: the ability of aeroplanes to conflict, quality, life expectancy, price, operating costs, the models our allies choose – to name a few moments. I feel confident that all of these pages will be evaluated. When we are going to enter into an agreement of the order of 30-40 billion kroner, it goes without saying that we cannot afford to make misassessments or purchase wrong goods. What is then very important to achieve the goal of buying the best aircraft is that there is real competition to achieve the contract. You get that when there are several different and good alternatives that fight for the same contract. For the Workers' Party, it has been very important to underline this in this year's budget. We are therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of real alternatives in order to ensure a genuine competitive situation. But in addition to the importance of getting a better plane, in all senses of the word, it is important for the Workers' Party to involve Norwegian industry. Repurchase has for a long time proved to be a valuable and effective tool for technology development and for the export of Norwegian products. This means securing the jobs that already exist and opening up opportunities to create new ones. In recent months, several thousand jobs have been lost in industry. Last night we got new numbers from Aetat, which show that the unemployment rate continues to increase, and that the unemployment rate is over 20 pst. higher than last year. This is a tragedy for the individual affected by unemployment. But it's more than that, it's also a loss for Norway as a nation. The loss of jobs in Norway means the loss of income and the disappearance of knowledge. We have to take this seriously. It is therefore very important for the Workers' Party that Norwegian industry be involved in these air purchases. I would like to stress that it is a prerequisite for the Workers' Party that the project we choose provides good conditions for the industry. We have several good environments in Norway that have expertise and competence to contribute. Now, as politicians, we need to show that we have the will to assist them in negotiations with the future supplier. It will give us a better plane and help secure vulnerable jobs in the export industry. The defence is about to go to the acquisition of new MTBs. The majority noted that the proposal stated that the contract negotiations for the construction of five Skold-class MTBs were planned to be concluded in December. After the budget was presented to the Stortinget, we unfortunately witnessed the burning of the minesweeper KNM ‘Orkla’. At the open hearing of the Defence Committee on 7 November, questions were raised concerning the progress of the contract negotiations for the Skold project following the fire on board the KNM Organla. We understand that it is too early to say anything about the fire at KNM ‘Orkla’ and whether this could have consequences for the progress of the Skjold project. The ships in use in the Defence must be safe, so that neither crew nor their relatives should have any reason to fear security. We expect the Ministry of Defence to do everything possible to ensure that the report on the KNM ‘Orkla’ is completed as quickly as possible, so that the actual decision on the MTBs can be made as quickly as possible. Our coastguard carries out extensive control and oversight tasks and is the country’s primary authority of the extensive rights and duties of Norway as a coastal nation. I am pleased that the Coast Guard in the 2002-2003 budget has been allocated resources to properly carry out its tasks and to strengthen the overall capacity of the Coast Guard during the planning period. It is clear that the Coast Guard is significantly strengthened after the new vessel KV Svalbard has been put into service. I agree with an overall committee, which indicates that the Government must ensure that the annual budgets contribute to the performance of its important tasks by the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e978	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e981	Although the cold war is over, I do not believe that there is any doubt that our northern regions still have a central strategic significance. Our security challenges are closely linked to our long coast and our maritime resources, such as fish, oil and gas. Therefore, there is a great demand for us and our ability to discharge our rights and obligations in the northern regions. We have to do that in an efficient and credible way. If we are to be able to carry out these tasks, it is important to bet on the Maritime Defense and Coast Guard. Monitoring of our large sea areas can best be done with presence. The new frigates of the Fridtjof Nansen class, with helicopters, will be the flagships of the future maritime defense. Helicopter capacity will be important for, inter alia: to be able to support the rescue service. The government is betting on the Maritime Defense. The Coast Guard is the Defence’s central actor in the process of sovereignty and the exercise of authority at sea. A total of 10 vessels are sailing in the outer coastguard. KV Svalbard is the most recent pride of the Maritime Defense and is now operating. With ice strengthening, helicopter and towing capacity, KV Svalbard gives us a new and unique capacity to solve the problems in the northern regions. It is claimed that the Coast Guard will be cut by this budget. That's not true. For 2003, the level is continued from this year onwards. A total of 649 million were granted. kr. However, as a result of the VAT reform, the cost of operating leased vessels has increased slightly. Therefore, the Government proposes to phase out two service watch vessels. In other words, the government wants to give priority to seagoing coastguard vessels. There has been an increased focus on the transport of oil from Russia along the Norwegian coast and on the adequacy of state preparedness in relation to possible accidents associated with this transport. A reduction of two duty-vessels will have no direct impact on oil protection. It is mainly the seagoing coastguard vessels that have oil protection equipment on board. The defence's other vessels can also contribute to coastal preparedness through their presence in the northern regions. The marine defense experience a daily life of great contrasts. The guards of the sea must be able to deal with both threats of potential war, terrorism and sabotage operations on a Norwegian base, to have fishing oversight in our sea areas and to provide assistance for shipwreck and oil spills along the coast. The marine defense deserves a great deal of praise for the effort they make.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e996	Air defence employees at Kjeller today express their concern about the workplaces in the future in their current edition of the magazine of Rome. This is nothing new. The size has decided on conversions and downgradings. The future of Air Force involvement on both Gardermoen, Kjeller and Rygge has been under discussion for a long time in a number of investigations, back and forth. In St. prp. No 55 for 2001-2002 refers to: «Future solution for the air transport sector in Defence will necessarily have major implications for what will be the efficient and rational organisation of defence air transport capacity.» The Storting concluded on its side that : ‘Future activities at Gardermoen, Rygge and Kjeller will be assessed in the context of the development of the transport aircraft capacity of the future and that the proposition does not specify proposals for the future organisation of the base and workshop structure of the Air Force in the east’. The majority of the Committee also stated that ‘it would be desirable and necessary for a decision to be taken as soon as possible on the overall operations of the Air Force on Gardermoen, Rygge and Kjeller’. It is likely to be interesting for more than a thousand employees at Kjeller if the Council of State Krohn Devold could, if possible, suggest how far ahead a clarification can take place. When the head of the FLO/Air today says to a journalist in the magazine of Rome that there will probably be no changes at Kjeller in 10–15 years, this can immediately be reassuring. At the same time, we know what Stortinget has said about savings claims, which may indicate that Kjeller must also take part in this in the near future. Maintenance of F-16 requires a flight strip. Kjeller did. It is unlikely that it will be profitable to move the remaining maintenance of F-16, carried out on Kjeller, during the period remaining until new fighter aircraft are phased in.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1017	I asked the Minister of Defence earlier today if the Riksrevision report on the GOLF programme had been completed. The Council of State responded by confirming that she is not aware of the completion of this report. So I asked what is now the cost estimate of the GOLF program for the entire programming period. This was not answered by the Council of State. I would like to repeat the question: what is the cost estimate of the GOLF programme now over the entire programming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1024	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo had a guest vision in the main hall, he disappeared as quickly as he came. I just have to be allowed to see that repeating false claims over and over again does not make the incorrect claims more correct. There have been a number of debates on Afghanistan in the United Kingdom, in an open hall. We had a very open debate in the United Kingdom in October 2001 before we agreed to participate. That is, I guess, the fact that Kjetil Bjørklund's representative apologized so much led to the Taliban regime being replaced. We had an open-ended Afghanistan debate on both the occasions we have renewed and extended our participation, in May – if I remember correctly – and in October. In addition to that, we have had the NATO debate, and we had the Foreign Minister's statement in October. I do not remember that the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo has neither shown interest in nor participated in any of these debates. But what I have to assume is the problem is that these decisions are made by a total increase, with the exception of SV. It is the problem that SV does not get an impact on its elusive and avoidance policy towards the regime that it was so imperative to abolish in Afghanistan. But I record again that Kjetil Bjørklund thought it was a better idea that the Taliban regime should hand bin Laden over to another Muslim country. This must mean that the Taliban regime should continue its humanely despised behaviour towards the population of Afghanistan. Some other logical consequence of the fact that instead of going into and abolishing the regime, they should be allowed to deliver bin Laden, I think I'm speaking for SV, but that doesn't give the party any right or opportunity to claim that we haven't debated this matter in an open way in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1033	Let me also, first of all, be allowed to make a brief comment to the representative Ballo, who came storming into the hall, and stormed out again. Of course, I'm not going to comment on what he said about the Mehamn accident. It's a commission that's going on. But I must – like the representative Hernæs – only stress that in the case of Operation Enduring Freedom and the ISAF operation, these operations have been dealt with openly several times, no later than 25 October of this year, when we considered the last additional allocation for the current year, i.e. the one concerning the deployment of the F-16 forces. There has been a debate when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made his statement. He had one in the harvest specifically aimed at Afghanistan, the Middle East and Iraq, where there was a thorough Afghanistan debate and a review of the situation in Afghanistan, both in terms of Operation Enduring Freedom, the UN forces and the humanitarian efforts, for which there is a very strong need. I would also like to point out that in a few days' time we will have a meeting in Norway in the Afghan Support Group, where the President of Afghanistan is coming. Then, according to Bjørklund's response to Gunnar Halvorsen earlier today, I have found that SV's position on NATO is best compared to that of the Dagbladet's position on the Church of State: one is against the Church of State, but for female priests and homosexuals in the Church. So you're still towards NATO, as closely as before, no matter how NATO evolves, but you want to help NATO evolve in a positive direction. I'm actually a little surprised that SV doesn't change its position to NATO, because NATO is no longer a Reich Club, or a Western Alliance. It is an alliance that is now an integral political force in Europe, and it is developing into a pan-European security policy alliance that provides not only security but perhaps first and foremost for some new countries in Eastern Europe. It is also interesting how the European countries of NATO are now, in a way, a kind of alternative to EU security and foreign policy. And when Bjørklund does not look at the EU as an alternative, I have to ask what is the security-policy alliance, or security-policy security, that Norway is going to have. I must also add – like the representative Hernæs – that I slipped quite high in the chair as Bjørklund almost suggested that the best thing would be about the Taliban regime remaining in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1043	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 801]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1059	I could maybe stay here! I'm not going to spend a long time, but I'm going to stress three things. Firstly, the Committee supports the classificationproposition for the current year and also the basis for this regroupingproposition, which is both the budget for the current year and the additional appropriations that have been made thereafter, both from June and the extra appropriations for foreign operations. So I think it's worth pointing out, even if we stick to the regrouping proposition, that there's a lot of money going on here. These reclassifications cover more and more chapters for each year. I would like to give two examples from this platform: larger equipment acquisitions are reduced by 226 million. kr in relation to the current year’s budget and jointly financed construction works are reduced by 125 million. kr in relation to the budget adopted. I would like to see which other departments or other areas of central government that are scalding and choosing with money in this way, that have so large sums that fly out and into the state budget, and that with a pen stroke can only remove 200 million. kr from a budget chapter in relation to the adopted budget, without we winking. I am also addressing this because there is a proposal in Stortinget on a new chapter structure that will create even larger units in the Ministry of Defence's budget. Of course, we're joining this regrouping proposition. It was just supposed to be missing! This is the budgetary situation in the Stortning for the current year. In addition, we also have a four-year period from which we are now budgeting. Nevertheless, I would like to ask that the Ministry of Defence and Defence take budgeting a little more seriously and are a little more precise in relation to what is in the annual regrouping proposals that we get to the Stortinget for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1076	Also this card: it says a lot about the introduction of a chamber lock and the removal of the ignition stamp. It's an information case, and so the Progress Party doesn't do anything about it in particular. But we refer to the Budget-inner. S. No 7, where we go towards this -- just so it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1081	Only a very brief remark related to the size of the reclassification proposition. The reason why this number is higher than most other departments is completely logical. The defense has investment decisions of the order of 10 billion dollars a year, and then there will always be a small part of this sum of 10 billion that there is a need to move on at the end of the year. The number moved for this year is a completely normal number, in line with the level that has been under previous governments. It'll always be that you try to keep that figure as low as possible, but with investments in the size of the defense, I think we'll have to assume that in the future there will also be funds that need to be moved on at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 809]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1096	Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1103	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Kjetil Bjørklund on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to entrust the environmental research environment with the task of carrying out an independent analysis of the environmental impact of the development of the Eastern Region.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e1126	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e3618	I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e3625	The votes of 74 were corrected in favour of the Committee's position and 20 against. With this number of votes, the setting is concurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e3638	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-06.ana.ud1300e4430	There is no record.
