ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e28	Let me first start by giving credit to the representative Thorbjørn Jagland today. He is one of the few who in the course of this throne debate has the power to raise the perspective beyond the national and beyond in an international landscape, alongside our prime minister and representatives of the government parties. We have to raise our eyes. As former Prime Minister Lars Korvald has said, Norway is a small country in the world. However, Norway may play a role internationally. I think we have before. We also showed that in Johannesburg. And we'll show that again. One of the reasons for this is our international credibility. It builds not only on the last years of peace efforts in different parts of the world, but on many, many years of effort for the poor of the world. Norway has faced crises and disasters, and we have contributed to a long-term and laborious work for economic and social development in poor countries over the past 50 years. Norway has been able to rely on this. This has also given us much more influence than our country should have. We have to take care of this. Cuts in aid will help the opposite. British Prime Minister Tony Blair said in his speech at the Johannesburg Summit: 'A characteristic of our world is interdependence. Your problem will be our problem. A country's war becomes another country's asylum seekers. Contamination of a country becomes the floods of another country!’ Yeah, that's right. This is why aid efforts are also important. A lot can be said about the new American security strategy. On 11 September, however, development policies and assistance have now become an important part of the new security strategy of the United States. And it has contributed to a historic increase in American aid, the largest since Marshall's aid. As of 2004, the increase will be 50 pst. Or $5 billion US dollars. Other countries, too, are now stepping up assistance. For Norway, however, the self-interest is not the reason for our international commitment. The gap between poor and rich is our responsibility. That's why we have to do something about it. That's why we have to stand up. As Norway also said in Johannesburg, it is about justice — justice in relation to the world’s poverty and justice in relation to future generations. For what is the situation? A poor African has a consumption of NOK 4 a day, while Swiss or Norwegians spend NOK 500. 1.2 billion people live under a dollar day in extreme poverty. Every seventh person in the world suffers from hunger. At today's pace, it could take up to 130 years to eradicate hunger globally. We don't have time for this, because while people die of malnutrition and malnutrition – 685 people every hour, of these are 450 children. It's almost that for every sentence we can finish in this debate, one child dies – every eight seconds. According to the World Food Programme, 14.4 million people are now threatened by the famine in southern Africa. We can't accept this. The HIV/AIDS epidemic kills every day. Every six seconds, a new person gets infected. 14 million children are orphans due to HIV/AIDS. We can't stand this. We have to do something about it. The Government has submitted this to the draft government budget. But when we hear the debate on the budget, we could be led to believe that Norway is the country with huge poverty problems and major shortcomings, here is poverty and need. When the challenges here at home are to be solved by cutting aid, as the Progress Party addresses, the paradox is complete. The world’s poor will pay for the removal of the increase in excess, for increased efforts in the health sector — and, above all, for cheaper spirits through lower taxes on alcohol. So we're going to take from the poorest in the world and give to those who, on a global scale – us – have a lot from before. We use 99 pst. of our income on ourselves, and under 1 pst. on the poor of the world. To put a figure on this: NOK 565.2 billion of the budget for next year will go to us Northmen, while the increase to the poor in the world will thus amount to $856 million. kr. That's all. The poverty challenge in the world is enormous. We can forget all the good intentions to achieve the Millennium Goals and solve poverty problems if we do not increase efforts significantly at the same time. The annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, and the World Bank last week left no doubt about this. Even U.S. Finance Minister Paul O'Neill sees this clearly and clearly, and said this in a meeting with me this week before. We know the targets, we agree on them, and we know what measures are needed to achieve them. But now it's time to deliver. Love of neighbor stops neither in the Swinesund nor in the Mediterranean Sea. It's global, and it requires action. That's how the government takes responsibility. We want to take responsibility not only nationally but also internationally and globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e56	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e59	Let me first join the Council of State by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I would agree that he raised the debate with his intervention on the global challenges. Let me also continue to commend the Council of State for the efforts she made in Johannesburg. After all, the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party agree that it is a shared responsibility to support the global fight against poverty. We support the Millennium Goals with emphasis on human dignity, equality and justice, and the focus of Norwegian aid policy has been in a broad majority between the Centre Parties, the Workers' Party and the SV in recent years. Last autumn, the Bondevik II government held to the Stoltenberg government’s massive increase of DKK 1.2 billion in aid in 2002. The present draft budget also has an increase in aid. But the Progress Party, which is the basis or basis of this government, will cut in aid with several billion dollars. Will a budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Advance Party lead to a new course here too? And will the Christian People's Party be part of it? So a very specific question: The government is now proposing to halve the share of quota refugees in Norway. These are the worst of the world's refugees, as the Council of State spoke so warmly of, the weakest among the weakest. Does the Minister for Aid really support such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e68	It's a pleasure what's happened in Norwegian policy in the last few years. Solidarity and closeness have been fundamental values in the movement of labour and among Christian People's Party people for very many years. We discussed enough in the 1990s, and had our conflicts with varying worker party governments about the importance of investing in aid, where we wanted to go further. I am very pleased with the developments that have occurred in this area over the last three to five years. The exciting thing is that there is not only more consensus nationally than ever, because the Right is also involved in the Sem Declaration and the State budgets presented by the Cooperation Government. That's also the same thing that happens internationally. There is greater consensus than ever about both objectives and instruments. When was the last time we experienced that the IMF, the Director of the International Monetary Fund, and the President of the High Court of Blues, called this by many, was a strong promoter of poverty reduction and, in fact, is asking countries to increase aid significantly? The same is true of the Secretary of State for Finance of the United States. This is a change that we're going to take with us as very positive. And the interesting thing is that it's the Progress Party that's the big exception, both nationally and internationally. It is therefore also a reason why the Progress Party is not part of the government we now have, and that is a reason why we have clear views on the political difference between these parties. It will of course also be reflected in the discussions that will take place in Stortinget in relation to getting a budget in port. Everyone knows that budgetary negotiations are not taking place from the Chair. The budget negotiations will leave the government to the Stortinget and to our respective party groups to carry out. However, there is no doubt — not to anyone who heard the Prime Minister’s speeches today — about the importance of poverty reduction and the Government’s commitment to preserving our credibility in this area. I don't think anyone could misinterpret the Prime Minister there. That's a very important value for us, and I think you'll notice that during the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e75	Yes, here comes the ‘exception’. The Honorary Orders are very loose in this Chamber when you come into aid, and I will be the first to stress that global poverty reduction is important. I had the pleasure of being present in Johannesburg, and the voices of the developing countries were different. But it was also gratifying to experience that a president like Museveni in Uganda cried out quite loudly not only about aid, that's not what he said first and foremost, it was trade, fair trade, inclusion in the world market. And where does Norway stand in this matter? We are talking about a paradox in the policy of the Progress Party. I would say that the Government has an even greater paradox in its policy. In St. prp. No 1 from the Ministry of Agriculture: ‘Norway has put great emphasis on cooperating with countries that have the same interests as us. This includes the EU, Japan, Korea and Switzerland.’ Is this country and its partners who will contribute to a WTO context so that we can have a more open trade, not least with food, and help to bring about a lasting change in the negative development that has partly occurred. in southern Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e89	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Höglund, on the importance of international trade, and I fully agree with President Museveni on the importance of allowing countries such as Uganda market access to the international and Norwegian markets. The great thing about this government is that in the Sem Declaration, what has been the most powerful issue in development policy, namely trade – the Christian People’s Party has also been involved in this – has been combined with the aid and our policy for offensive debt policy and development policy internationally. In fact, it provides the best development policy — all three at the same time: debt, trade and aid. It is not possible to get the results we are going to achieve in the development field without doing something with all three, and in addition we are doing something about national policies in the different countries with which we work. Everything is necessary. We can't do this just by trading. But we're doing our trade job. On 1 July this year we removed all quotas, all customs duties on all goods from the poorest developing countries. 48 countries have probably now become total. This means that President Museveni and other of his colleagues in the poorest developing countries have full market access to the Norwegian market. What we now have to work on is to help them make maximum use of this market access. This means that we must also avoid the so-called non-commercial barriers to trade, i.e. phytosanitary requirements, veterinary requirements and anything that makes it difficult to escape. Now we are going to use the aid policy to help make use of trade and market access. The Sem declaration has also said that imports of goods from other developing countries, i.e. middle-income countries, will be increased. We follow that up in the WTO context. And that's a commitment the government has made in the negotiations we're now going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e98	It is not difficult to join the government and the Minister for Development for good work that has been done and to increase the budget. There are difficulties in the area of international aid. It's going down. I see that one calculates that it might eventually go up. But at the same time, it is sad that we see that there is so much war in the world that it also diverted aid from the more traditional assisted areas. In addition, I see that it is easy to get money for bombs. Then it is ‘yes’. When it comes to money for emergency aid and assistance, it becomes more a ‘yes’. I won't say 'no', but I'll say it's more 'yes' then. When we started with assistance many years ago, we had a very optimism. We thought that only we gave, this would go quickly and smoothly. It has been shown that it did not. Maybe we should also include the main idea that was there from the beginning, that this would have an impact on us in Norway and on the Norwegian community. I think, for example, That we're going to have to travel to Africa once to learn to live. Perhaps we need to travel to the Norwegian countryside to learn something from the rural culture in Norway as well. So a little bit to my question about the framework, which is just as important as the aid. In that context, it must not focus solely on trading conditions. Structural adjustment programmes run by the IMF and the World Bank know that we can hold down barriers to trade, liberalisation of the financial sector, privatisation and so on. - with great consequences for ordinary people. In the budget, it is not possible to find any critical points or comments by the multinational financial institutions. I would like to ask the Minister for Development whether we can risk that parts of Norwegian assistance will agree to repair damage that has occurred to the poorest, as a result of a policy advised by the multilateral financial institutions. Is Norway on the line with the IMF and the World Bank when it comes to what is going on in all our main co-operation countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e111	Arguing governments have been involved in a significant effort to change the policies of the international financial institutions, both the World Bank and the IMF, but in particular the World Bank and regional development banks. This means that the structural adjustment programmes that have been criticised and that have been criticised, among other things. during the ABCDE conference at the end of June of this year, significant changes have been made. Norway and the Nordic countries, together with the Netherlands, have been strong drivers of this. There's a completely different social arrangement on these programs than it was before, even though we're not quite in the finish line yet. We're saying it so that the structural adjustment time is over. That's still a requirement, and it's so-called conditionality, but it's different than before. So to the question. In the context of the IDA fill-in negotiations, which are going on its own to the Stortinget, we are going to go into the policy of the World Bank and the IMF, as many of the members of the Stortinget want. At least I have notified the Storting about it in a letter. This will give the Storting a greater opportunity to explore these questions. We think that is a better solution than to take this in budgetary terms. So there, the representative Jacobsen will have a good opportunity to discuss the policy of the international financial institutions. However, let me mention one important measure that we have proposed, which the so-called Utstein countries have been behind since 1999. It's putting in place something called "Poverty and Social Impact Analysis" schemes. This means entering into and analysing the impact of macroeconomic policies, and doing so from country to country and from case to case. This is now being institutionalised in both the IMF, the Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and will be an important contributor to changing macroeconomic policies even more in line with the objective of combating poverty and ensuring that the money reaches the very poorest. So this mechanism that we've established, it's now in the process of making its effect. I even had discussions in Washington about this last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e122	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e125	We live in one of the richest countries in the world. Oil revenues have created a welfare society and a standard of living that people in many other nations can only dream of. We all want to further develop this welfare society. That's why we can't just lean back and enjoy today's oil wealth; we must now lay the foundation for innovation, growth and development for future generations. Knowledge-based growth is here a key factor. Knowledge and competence are in themselves enriching to the individual. It has a self-esteem to be able to do something, to master a subject, and to master everyday life and work through good knowledge and competence provide both self-esteem and self-respect. But, above all, knowledge is the key to growth and development in an increasingly internationalised and competitive business. Therefore, the quality of school and the quality of research is not just a slogan. It is a fundamental prerequisite for the value creation of future Norway. The government has well grasped this challenge. From a situation where Norwegian schoolchildren intersect mediocrely on comparable tests, the Government has an ambitious target of Norwegian schoolchildren becoming among the best. It is not natural for Norwegian children to be mediocre, as the Education Association claims. It's natural to be among the best. We can be the best in the world within a number of minds. Why should we not be able to do the same in school, where knowledge is produced, and where the basis for our future is created? When over 50 pst. by the teachers who teach mathematics at primary school do not have a single weight in mathematics in their education, it is no wonder that the mathematics skills of the students fail. It can't go on like that. The government has therefore taken important steps in this area. A new and improved teacher training has already been adopted. From 2003 onwards, individual scholarships are introduced for teachers who will take formal further training in primary, secondary and secondary schools, mathematics and Norwegian. Secondary schools shall provide preparatory education and vocational training for those students who choose vocational courses. Many feedback suggests that today’s secondary school — created by social democrat Gudmund Hernes — does not address any of these tasks in a fully satisfactory way. Universities and colleges complain that new students lack elementary knowledge in several subjects, while feedback from students and employers points out that vocational education has become too theoretical. The quality selection has, among other things: tasked with assessing these conditions. Therefore, the Government shows that it also takes the quality and development of high school seriously. Despite many gloomy predictions from the opposition and others, there is no evidence that municipalities are paying less in school than before. For the municipalities as employers and school owners, it is also very well received that they are given greater freedom and more room for action to run their local school, while at the same time the system of demonstration schools and bonus schools seems motivating and quality-promoting. The quality reform of our colleges and universities is being fully implemented. Students and employees in the sector have taken the challenge of bringing our higher education up to a top international level. The government has followed up the need for increased resources, while the institutions are seeking to adapt their activities to new framework conditions. I find in this context reason to commend our universities and colleges for the good way they find they can carry out the quality reform, but it remains to be seen whether we can achieve the expected quality improvement. I must also be allowed to refute the claim made by the representative Giske earlier today that there are several hundred million kroner to implement the competence reform. On the contrary, higher education institutions and universities are well satisfied with the budget submitted for the area. With an even stronger focus on research and through close cooperation between industry and our research institutions, a foundation for knowledge-based value creation in this country is now being laid that will ensure employment, economy and well-being both for us today and for future generations. When the opposition repeatedly asks what is happening to the Government and the Right School commitments, they must have followed very poorly in the hour in order to avoid recording all the good quality promotion measures that have already been undertaken, as well as the increased research efforts that take place both in industry and at our colleges and universities. This shows that the government is highly rated at our school and at our future. The right does not break the schoollifts. They're being held and fulfilled!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e147	A new political governance of Norway has been chosen. A year of right-dominated government and government plans for the coming year tells this. Ideas that have been the cultural heritage of post-war generations are under attack. The words of the welfare state such as ‘social rights’, ‘social security’, ‘justice’ and ‘balancing social inequalities’ are terms that seem to have been deleted by the political vocabulary of this government. It seems that the Government believes that solidarity and the attitudes behind these concepts are immature and have expired. The Government’s so-called modernisation programme has its own propensity: concepts such as ‘competition outsourcing’, ‘privatisation’, ‘individualisation’, ‘taxilet’ and ‘need testing of welfare benefits’. Such concepts and attitudes are a policy for social insecurity, for greater differences, for more egoism and for less well-being, and for more private consumption. With the Progress Party as an alliance partner, this image will be further enhanced. In fact, the Progress Party will today give more to the elderly and more to the destitute, and that is what is needed. But the long-term policy of the Progress Party is to change the basic structure of the welfare state. It is building up municipalities, privatising, postponing competition, and weakening employee rights and then giving to deserving ones. The Labour Party cannot see this as a forward-looking and modern policy. I am amazed that the Christian People's Party will be on this path. In fact, development aid is increasing, and that is good. In fact, a poverty response package is being promoted. Also, it sounds good in the first place, but only in the first place. For the general policy of this government, more people become poor, and more people find themselves in such marginal situations where it is difficult to deal with. This is done by reducing the possibility of disability to have additional income, by reducing the daily allowance for the unemployed, by reducing the level of income in the event of temporary disability, by reducing the driving regime for the disabled, by paying school books, by increasing the prices of the school leisure system and by weakening the rights of workers in the working environment law. This is not a policy that responds to today’s challenges. It's more of a policy in the spirit of the night scale state. In the knowledge society, we need to expand and strengthen public schools, not privatize them. In an era of increasing unemployment, we must ensure the day-to-day payment system. In a globalised economy where share prices create insecurity for national jobs, it is important to ensure employee rights across borders. In a time of crime, there is more than ever a need for a solidarity society with fair distribution and space for all. It gives you confidence. A policy based on competition and the most powerful law does the opposite. This government has outlined some road choices that will have a major impact on our welfare community. The time ahead will be crucial for the extent to which these elections will manifest themselves in practical policy. But it is difficult to see the continuity of Bondevik's first government with the Value Commission as a taboo, until the values of the Christian People's Party are involved in promoting this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e160	The party of progress again has an uprising near what the party had before Carl I. Hagen began to purge party members with undemocratic instruments. The party wants to participate in a government, and Carl I. Hagen's goal is to become prime minister. There is no doubt that Norway needs a political party that fights to reduce taxes and taxes and will give priority to care for the elderly and health care. But Norway does not need politicians who do not respect the democratic common values on which our society is based. In a democratic system, the choice is to decide which persons will hold leading positions, both in a nation, in an organisation and in a political party. No personal choice shall be made by prohibiting persons from making choices, as is done in the Progress Party. A person who does not respect democratic values in his own party will also not respect democratic values in a nation if he gains power and influence. Such politicians should be isolated by a common position of those politicians who want to circle around the value base on which we build our democracy. Norway equally needs a full party based on liberal values, where people receive tax reductions instead of aid schemes and, consequently, it itself has the opportunity to dispose of a larger part of its own value creation, a party that protects the freedom of peoples both in relation to the high taxes and charges of detention, and the fear of abuse of other individuals. We need a new party in Norway with these supports as essentially, a democratic and liberal party in which authoritarian leadership does not go hand in hand with its own members. The main task of a new batch should be to combat crime. First of all, there must be a hard fight against violent and sexual offenders. Even the Progress Party now believes that it should be possible for a perpetrator of violence to escape the prison cell. Earlier this year, the party voted in favour of a proposal in the Grand Duchy that violent offenders should not be subject to conditional punishment, a complete reversal in relation to the party's previous policy. But it is also the case that the party's foreign policy spokesman, Morten Höglund, said to the Newspaper as the reason why the party now suddenly supports unhelp: it is a tradition that the Progress Party changes its mind over time. It has to be certain. Before, the party went against unhelp, because it would harm the recipient countries. Then Carl I. Hagen suddenly went in for u-help, because there was enough money on the oil fund, and money spent abroad would not create pressure in the Norwegian economy. But now, the Progress Party will reduce the aid to reduce alcohol taxes, thus giving alcohol buyers more money to spend precisely on the Norwegian economy. Before, the Progress Party argued that Norway’s Bank should be independent, so that irresponsible politicians would not be pushed to spend more money than Norway’s Bank thought was sound. Now Carl I. Hagen wants the director of the Bank of Norway to meet in Stortinget to explain himself. Before, the Progress Party believed that the Right People were semi-socialists who would not sell the majority of the shares in state companies to private individuals. Now the Progress Party prevents the Right, Christian People's Party and Left from selling shares in several state companies. In the past, the Progress Party would ensure equality and freedom of choice for families with children by including all subsidies to kindergartens and redistributing the money in equal amounts to all families with children. The Progress Party, together with SV and the Workers' Party, is now entering into a conciliation agreement which means increasing the subsidy of the kindergartens and reducing the possibility for the Government to find money for tax relief. And that is: before, the Progress Party was for a tough criminal policy, a tough policy against rapists who under no circumstances had to be sentenced to conditional imprisonment. Now the party believes that in practice, violent people should be able to escape without punishment. The list could have been much longer if the representative Simonsen had had much longer speaking time. You can't trust a party like this. Norway therefore needs a new party as soon as possible, a party that takes crime seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e179	I'm going to refrain from commenting specifically on Simonsen's posts, but I must say that it might have been interesting to hear a little about Simonsen's priorities rather than a long tirade that is ripping down on the Progress Party and the Progress Party's policy. The issue that is being debated here today is the announcement to the Great Britain of the state of the state. This message tells us that Norway is a very rich country. Norway has large revenues and profits from oil revenues. We have a very good economy in this country. What is a bit funny, however, is that the debate here in Stortinget suggests that the good economy of the state is more to the test than it is to the pleasure of, at least for the politicians in this Chamber. The question is how the population, the inhabitants of Norway, perceives the state of the state. How do they feel that the economic situation is in Norway? And what joy did the inhabitants experience because of the enormous oil wealth that Norway has? We know that Norway is a very expensive country to live in compared to our neighbouring country. Only by crossing the border with Sweden can you trade food, alcohol and tobacco 30 pst., 40 pst., maybe 50 pst. more affordable than what you can do at home in Norway. The reasons for this are our high level of taxation. There is no logic that Norway, with its enormous wealth, will have to tax its citizens more than what is done in Sweden, our neighbouring country. Sweden, after all, has no oil revenues whatsoever, but a debt of a thousand billion dollars. Nevertheless, Sweden has a lower level of taxes and charges for most people. For example, when you have: will buy a car, it costs in Sweden about half of what it costs in Norway. Where is the logic of this? After the election last year, Norway got a new government, a new government that made promises of better well-being and better economy for most people. Great tax relief was promised. Now the government has presented its proposal to the government budget, and the tax reliefs are difficult to find, at least I haven't been able to find many of them. In relation to the border trade, which I was in the community, and the taxes on baits do nothing. The only thing the government is proposing to reduce the border trade leakage is to start collecting tolls by passing the new Swinesund Bridge – the gateway to Norway, which should obviously have been a national responsibility to finance, as I see it at least. The bridge will now be financed by those who choose to cross the border of action. Studies show that 80 pst. by passenger car traffic over the Svinesund bridge is Norwegian. The same study shows that among these individuals, 60 pst is reported. of these 80 pst. that they are on a trade trip to Sweden. This represents a very big problem, a very big problem at least for the business community in Eastfold, where I come from. So you have a competitor 10, 20 or 30 minutes away that can sell goods for a price equal to half the price of what you can in Norway. We believe that this is the wrong policy. Furthermore, when it comes to the Svinesund Bridge, we believe that it should be a state responsibility to finance it. You should not send the bill back to the drivers. With regard to the income tax side, there is also no significant intervention. This means that you do not get out of the vicious circle of high pay settlements that jeopardize competitive industries and jobs in Norway. A sharp reduction in the level of taxation could avoid costly wage settlements for enterprises and the public sector. A sharp reduction in the level of taxation could also improve the advice of ordinary employees without any increased costs for business and businesses. You had a win-win situation that everyone had earned. This does not take particular account of the Government. So what do the tax collectors think when they think about the state of the kingdom? I don't think they're quite satisfied. The government and the majority of the population are in spite of several things, as I see it. The Progress Party will give priority to giving citizens of Norway a better everyday life in terms of a better economy through tax relief. We want to spend some of our wealth on this. We also believe that most people will experience the state of the kingdom as better then.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e200	I have a dream – that’s the precedent for it from this pulpit – and that dream is that you could get a consensus in the Presidency of the Stortinge to club every time the sentence ‘Norway is one of the richest countries in the world’ with the option ‘Norway is the richest country in the world’ falls from this pulpit. It has fallen a hundred times during this debate of the throne, and it has seriously occurred to me that this is our most dangerous national anesthetic at the moment – this obsession with staring at our own money and forgetting all the long-term challenges facing Norwegian society. These long-term challenges are probably bigger than they have ever been, and then it is a little depressing that we are experiencing a debate on the future of the country in the long term, but which is essentially about a shadow boxing on the budget and individual items in the budget, despite the fact that we all know that we are going to spend two whole days in the budget debate when we get to the end of November. Norway’s main challenge at present is not to deal with the internal dispositions of oil wealth and the return on oil wealth. Norway's biggest challenges at the moment are that we live in a world and on a continent that changes at fast pace, and we're at all not interested in it, to put it on the verge, because we're so busy with our internal money woes. It has been argued that the debate on the throne is to be held by the opposition, and it has been stressed by the opposition, in particular by the Labour Party, on the need for predictability in Norwegian policy. We can agree that this need is present. However, the response to this challenge by the Workers' Party is a completely new demand that the country now have to have a majority government, because majority governments should respond to this need for predictability. And on that occasion, we have already been associated with SV as a partner and, as far as I have understood, also with the Central Party, despite the fact that it is also made clear in this debate that with regard to the country's security and foreign policy, there is a light year's distance between the reality of SV and the reality of the Workers' Party. It should be believed that the country's security and foreign policy are the most important of all a government should be responsible for, but it should later be completely trouble-free to govern with a party that is on another globe in terms of the perception of what the Norwegian security policy needs are. When Jens Stoltenberg presented his government statement to the Stortinget – no longer than some of us remember it – it had one theme, namely the need for renewal and change, and not least a change in the public sector. After listening to this debate of the throne, I have to say that I have the impression that both Jens Stoltenberg himself and his party have completely forgotten it, because today alliances are being built to prevent change at all costs. You don't want to change anything, because all of the good things that we've given you, we're going to keep to the last ear, and then we're going to add some good things to it. Then it is no wonder that the Kingdom of Norway shows as many signs as we improperly do, compared to other countries, on political aberration, on the lack of will and inability to meet the future offensively and make the changes that are needed now, before we are forced to make them, in some years, when we no longer have a surplus in the state economy. The right is as busy as the Workers' Party and other parties in this Chamber as developing the Norwegian welfare society and its values. But we must soon realize that the welfare state today is a colossal one on the clay feet, and that if we are not willing to make the changes that make the welfare measures reach those who need them, instead of reaching all of us who do not need them, then that colossal one is going to rage with a crash. That is what the debate on the throne should be about if Norway is still to be a welfare society in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e213	In marking the millennium, we heard several times the confirmation that Norway entered this century as Europe's poorest country, and that we are leaving this century as the world's richest. During these hundred years, a lot has happened, naturally enough, not least in the development of what we know as the welfare state. Recently we celebrated that it was 30 years since the oil adventure started in the North Sea – 30 years with a raging development both technologically, industrially and competently, but not least with regard to revenue from the state treasury. It is thanks to the cash flow that Norway can distinguish itself from being the richest country in the world. It's always easy to give, especially if we have a lot to take off. Over many years, we have built up a comprehensive public sector, and we have developed one well-being after another. This costs. And it costs more and more. In fact, it costs so much that, in addition to the use of oil revenues, we have also come to the world top in terms of taxes and taxes. We have an open economy and a competitive business, and a mobile business. This means that in our country we have to be able to offer framework conditions that make it attractive to establish and create values at home. An increased public sector cannot uncritically retrieve resources from taxpayers' wallets as the bills are payable. A strong public sector places wage formation under pressure in a tight labour market and contributes to further stimulating the wage spiral. We already have compensation of employees of 20-30 pst. Compared with other countries, it is natural to compare with other countries. What does this do for the competitiveness of a business that is largely based on exports? What does this do with the intention of innovation? Is medicine then continuing to significantly increase public sector and welfare expenditure? Is the basis for the future to follow the opposition? What are the taxes and taxes that will increase the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party? Such a serious situation requires change, and as the representative Jens Stoltenberg said yesterday, there is a change in course. And I want to say, fortunately. Recognising that we cannot allow a strong cost increase in public expenditure, the Sem document has established that the underlying expenditure growth in the state budget should be less than the economic growth in mainland Norway. This means that work on the conversion of the public sector is important from a number of points of view: If we can't afford ourselves out of a situation of schemes and public enterprises that require more and more resources to maintain status, this requires that we look with new eyes at how the problems can be solved. Change, reconnaissance and not least courage to carry out the processes are required. This modernisation and conversion work is too fully carried out by the Government. An example of this is the coordination work between Aetat and the social security and social security activities. Another example, which has already been implemented, is the conversion in aviation, the removal of air passenger charges, the award credits, as well as a new state procurement agreement – all in place to ensure real competition that benefits both individuals and public Norway. Such things do not come of themselves. This requires recognition of the need for change and the courage to implement structural measures — not least as in this case — by following the recommendations of the Competition Authority. Furthermore, it is important to keep an eye on who needs the most. The government is active in working towards targeted action and tailoring rather than general schemes and welfare bureaucracy. For us to have a public service offer, we depend on companies and jobs in Norway that can create the values. Just as a product has its life cycle, so does business. Some fall away, others go well in familiar tracks, and some new ones are on the track and under growth. And precisely innovation is important to stimulate. What do we need to bet on? What should be done to ensure that the idea of the individual head or enterprise is not disregarded, but is grasped and further developed? It's gonna cost you sweat, and it's gonna cost you money. The motivation is essential, and the belief in success. For the height of fall within today's reality is great. We have to get away from the fact that whoever wants to do something has to fight a long and continuous struggle with public applications, approvals, controls, reports and after each bottleneck in finding qualified employees. Economy is important, it costs to create, it costs to research, try, fail, try again – which is exactly what innovation is all about. The work must be done by the individual himself, but the public can and should accept a level of taxation that makes it interesting to build. This is the Government in progress. The government itself should set a good example in the management of taxpayers' money, and it means a continuous focus on how things can be done better, how to get more out of each government crown.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e247	While the Co-operation Government is changing Norway, this debate has shown that the Labour Party continues to faminate in the blind. During the last year, the Cooperation Government has taken a clear step towards creating more security in people's everyday lives and giving people greater freedom of choice. The level of taxation has been greatly reduced for ordinary people and for business. The public sector is being modernised, both to get more out of tax money and to provide people with a better service. We are focusing on new growth and development not only by improving the framework conditions for business but also by focusing on higher education, research and development. The fight against poverty has escalated both at home and outside. We target the social arrangements to get people back to work faster, but also to protect and help the weakest of us, and it is committed to a new and more offensive environmental policy. In the last year, Jens Stoltenberg’s glan number has been that it would not be possible to reduce taxes and taxes while paying more attention to society’s basic services: health and school. I record that after the government submitted its budget, we have no longer heard this claim. It's probably because, as Today's Business wrote on 4 October – and today's Business doesn't seem to brag – the government parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left "showed by the budget of the year that they are able to prioritise." That's exactly what you've done. This debate has shown that the Labour Party remains blind. Yesterday, the new leader of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, spent 15 minutes attacking three of the government's tightening proposals. Today, the Workers' Party's perhaps upcoming Vice-Chairman, Trond Giske, spent 10 minutes on flat rhetoric that was solely an attack on the Government. We have not heard a word about what is the Labour Party's alternative, either in terms of the basic social choices or in terms of what will be the Labour Party's alternative in this budget, except that the Workers' Party is opposed to all the convergence proposals proposed by the Government, that the Workers' Party will spend more money on a number of proposals, and that the Workers' Party will have a budget that is at least as tight. I am happy to see where the Workers' Party is going to cut. At the end of August, the future leader of the Workers' Party went out and said he wanted a tax on Caffè latte. The very idea was that you should have more tax on what's going well, to save what's going bad. Now I've come to understand that it was a misunderstanding – you wouldn't have a tax on caffè latte. But then the question is, what do you want? If it is that the Workers' Party is concerned because it is doing well in one of the sectors of society, namely the services sector, what is it like to slow down growth there? Is it by increasing taxes for ordinary people, so that people get less money to go with and less go to the café? Is it by using old socialist regulatory policies to prevent growth and development in the service sector? Or is it by reintroducing the investment tax? Because we have all heard that the Workers' Party has regularly pointed out that the investment fee has benefited primarily from the service sector. I register today that the Evening Post speculates that the Workers' Party will reintroduce the investment fee in some form or other. I also record that the Workers' Party has not used this debate to put that speculation to death. I think it might have been an advantage if the Workers' Party had done so, because we have understood that the Workers' Party is concerned with predictability and stability, and if it is such that we have plans to reintroduce a tax that has been removed as late as October 1st this year, there is no doubt that there will be great uncertainty and uncertainty in business. On the contrary, we have heard that one of the possible partners of the Workers' Party wants to reintroduce the investment fee once in the future, SV. Then we think that the Workers' Party might be able to make a contribution to stability and predictability, as we have heard all the areas in which they will increase the costs, whether it is the intention of the Workers' Party to reintroduce the investment fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e258	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e261	We have jointly managed to build a good welfare society. But is this a coincidence? Is it only oil, gas and other natural resources that have caused this? No, the Norwegian welfare community has been built up over many years through a misguided policy – a political choice. These choices have given us the opportunity to create a common well-being, a freedom that has given all equal opportunities regardless of the starting point of the social ladder. Now we see that the course is shifted in a different direction. Less emphasis is placed on fair distribution and community, for example, the signals on privatisation and individualisation of the population, greater privatisation of the school, conversion of the day-to-day arrangements and transfers to municipalities. Unemployment is rising. Large contracts go to foreign enterprises. Other companies are flagging out. We're talking here about the corner stone companies in the communities. Future-oriented industrial employment policy has almost been absent in this persuasion debate from the representatives of the government parties when we are now discussing the state of the kingdom. We must now take short-term and long-term measures for the competitive industry. It is clear from the Labour Party that we need and will have that industry in the future. A few years ago, the Workers' Party set up an industrial package for the workshop industry for a difficult period. This was a successful policy. Now we see progress, and we have to put in place similar measures and do similar grips again. We cannot ignore what is happening in Europe. We must now discuss the new Europe and the place of Norway. I know more than one company that now covers its output with subsequent unemployment and job losses in Norway – this is because of the obstacles that we as a non-member of the EU have. We have great opportunities for greater value creation in the regions of Norway if we provide better market opportunities for our industry. In a more future-oriented industrial debate, we must also be willing to discuss our industrial policy relationship with Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e275	There have been many strong and heavy words in this debate. I now want very briefly to focus on a small tab of the nostalgia that touches on a clear willingness to make an extra effort for the silences. Those who do not promote their own affairs, the mentally disabled, do not stand on the barricades. Year after year, they have been promised increased efforts, but what has happened? Yes, unfortunately, it is offered to those with somatic disorders who have often lost the winner in the race for appropriations and personnel. This is regrettable and frightening. Now the government says that within the treatment offered to the mentally ill, it should be invested at the lower edge of approximately 700 million. kr. My hope is that this clear signal will also be translated into increased patient care. One should now be able to expect a significant improvement in treatment capacity from today’s capacity to under one patient consultation per. play per day in Italy, which is fully up to the age of 10–12 consultations per year. day(s) Think if we in Norway could manage to get up to five consultations per year. play per day day(s) What revolution and what possibility would this not be for this tause group? The government also promises the offer to other weak groups, especially people with different drug problems. Here is the need great and serious. Russ dependence can in many cases cause lasting physical and mental damage, and for this reason increased efforts need to be made to prevent as many people as possible from becoming permanently debilitated. This is about solidarity in the distribution. Let them tause now get their rights and their help in the welfare community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e286	The Workers' Party will defend public schools as a common meeting place for all young people regardless of background. The common school is at the heart of the work of a fair society — a school that gives everyone an opportunity, a school that gives everyone a chance regardless of residence, social background, ethnicity, skills or disability. The common school is diversity. The government's proposal for the free establishment of private schools with public funding will mean sorting out children and young people. Everyone sees deficiencies in the public general school, and that's where we have to put in the effort that comes to the attention of the vast majority of children and young people. The working party will both spend more money on school and strengthen quality and content. The government's new school course has a clear profile and seems to be based on the following strategy: overfocus weaknesses and then mistrust of the public primary school, starvation of the economy of the municipalities and schools, and the Hiere's overall goal of privatisation and the two-way distribution of the school system will be heard more easily. In the budget, the government provides municipalities with less income to spend on, among others. schools, and appropriations for primary school are cut. The grant for the school leisure scheme is halved, and the framework for the loan scheme to clean up school buildings is reduced by DKK 1 billion. The goal of free teaching materials in secondary school is buried. Was this what the Right meant in the campaign with a better school? Clemet's state council is constantly claiming that the public school has enough money. The budget cuts mean that the government not only believes that the school has enough money, but that the schools have too much resources. Clemet thinks the teacher's density is a cost problem. Should she then resign teachers or not hire new ones? Reductions in primary schools are strongly opposed to the strong increase in private schools, which have a very small proportion of the total number of schoolchildren. In fact, private schools get far better economics than many of the public schools. And the government promises more to the private schools. This is the result of the government's school policy. And on the sideline, the Progress Party applauds. The working party will fight for the common school and is disappointed with the cuttings. At the same time, the budget clearly shows policy lines and what the new direction of the Government will mean. So a small comment on research and development efforts, which is absolutely necessary to ensure Norway’s future value creation and employment. The government has proposed a total increase in research effort of slightly over DKK 1 billion for next year. It is a large amount, but less than the Workers' Party proposed for the current year. The government acknowledges in the budget text that their proposed allocation will not be enough to reach the OECD average by 2005. Has the Government given up this goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e317	The Common Era places great emphasis on the economical value creation in our country. Although Norway’s economy is good because of high oil and gas revenues, we need to ensure that we keep a high value creation in mainland Norway. Also in this area, we want to change to improve. Petroleum activities have a major role to play in being a hub, a driving wheel, in technological development, which ensures that we have a high level of technical competence among the many subcontractors of the large oil and gas fields on the base. It is particularly gratifying to see the ring-effects that the Snow White development in Finnmark has already given. A number of companies report that they have built up to become subcontractors for the developer, and demanding customers stimulate them to be technologically top-notch. It is nice to see positive results so quickly in Finnmark after the treatment here in Stortinget. Conditions must be provided to enable the petroleum activity to have a good, even and environmentally conscious development. We have to make sure that Norwegian base is interesting for the best oil companies in the future. It requires that interesting blocks be illuminated for exploration activities, and it requires that we continually assess tax rates and other framework conditions for this industry. There is a cause for concern about the competitive business. The combination of high pay supplements, high interest rates and high interest rates does not make life easy for businesses. The NRK announced this morning that deliveries to the Kristin field had gone to a Spanish yard and at prices far below the Norwegian offers. This shows that all good forces now need to be concentrated on regaining competitiveness in Norwegian companies. The social partners must work together to bring about a very moderate wage increase in the future, and we must not give promises or hopes to any group of large wage increases from the moment of growth and government growth. And, not least, managers in private and public activities should be very satisfied with their salary expectations. If, in addition to this, we agree on a budget where we do not increase the financial framework, the sum of the measures could facilitate the maintenance and further development of good enterprises in Norway. But we have to look in the eye that part of our businesses after each phase out. It may be due to technology out of date, changed market conditions or simply because the company has not been able to follow through. This is a natural process, and we in Stortinget should feel no obligation to delay a natural liquidation. That being said, it is incredibly important that we have a living innovation environment that can fill the gaps that arise and that with new ideas, progress and enthusiasm create the new. As politicians, we have a considerable responsibility to facilitate such innovation and commercialisation. Where we can contribute birth help to this, it will yield good returns in the future. It is important to remember that for any welfare measures we want to implement, we need to have good, profitable companies that make this possible. There are major challenges, and I am glad that the languages of the throne so clearly underline this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e332	The Norwegian community economy is at a disastrously low level, it is claimed by many teams, and the demand for more money for the municipal sector has reached a crescendo. But more money alone can hardly be the best answer. Furthermore, many politicians in Norway are not willing to realise that if we put the right instruments in place, there is a significant untapped potential for improving efficiency in the public sector. This efficiency potential is now urgently needed, as the need for a more efficient public sector resource use is at present high. This is therefore the single factor that could have the greatest impact on public sector savings and quality development. The Progress Party therefore believes that the future role of the municipalities will be significantly changed in relation to today. Today, municipalities themselves carry out almost all welfare production under their own control and in a monopoly situation without the slightest more efficient competition. This just doesn't work well enough. It is therefore appropriate to introduce an operating model in Norwegian municipalities based on competitive outsourcing where several actors, both private and public, are to be released and competed for the provision of the publicly funded welfare services to the inhabitants. The role of the municipality will change from today as a service provider to become a quality, content and pricer of the welfare services that will be provided in the future by external and mostly private enterprises. At the same time, financial responsibility for welfare production should be transferred from the municipality to the State. We must create a welfare market where there must be a sufficient number of providers, so that competition and freedom of choice become real to the citizens. Only by introducing an active public sector competition policy will we be able to meet the demands and challenges facing the welfare society now and in the future. The Progress Party therefore expects the current government to work faster to implement competition policy in public enterprises. Unfortunately, Norway today has a regrettable place to jumbo internationally in this area, and then we must gather all the good forces to do something now if we really want to preserve a good welfare society further into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e347	The municipal economy is tight, like the rest of the state budget. But the municipalities should be as busy as the rest of us in relieving the pressure on the dollar and interest rates and thereby securing the jobs. Both employment and interest rates affect the local economy. But tightness requires innovation, and it not only requires some of the municipal politicians, but it actually requires some of us in this room as well. For what have we, the Storting, been doing for so many years? Well, we've imposed too much on the municipalities, adopted too many laws, regulations and earmarked grants. We show the power of action by sending expectations and bills to the municipalities. We should end with that. The fear that local solutions should be implemented in relation to the individual in this room should apply to all should not be taken into account in relation to a more efficient and user-friendly public sector. I am therefore pleased that the Government has embarked on a new course in which one of the main principles of the Government in the efficiency work in the public sector is greater local freedom and local responsibility. The government has started work on providing municipalities with framework conditions to improve the performance of services. The government goes through laws and regulations that prevent good use of resources, e.g.: the efforts to neutralise VAT rules in order to create a level playing field for municipal and private service providers. Cleaning was introduced into the VAT compensation system from 1 January of this year, and next year the Stortinget will have a case about the rest. The government will ensure that municipalities can maintain a little more proximity to their own income base and stimulate economic development by reintroducing some form of corporate tax. It also comes here next year. In order to improve the quality of school and to increase the room for action of schools and school owners, there is a work going on where you can look at how to simplify curricula, rules and agreements. In this context, could it also be possible to transfer the responsibilities of the employer to those who pay for it? Liability and funding obligations should, of course, be respected. The government is also trying to do something better for the municipalities than what was proposed by the majority in our so-called kindergarten agreement. It is unwise to separate ownership and obligation from funding. My hope on behalf of the municipal sector is that the bulk of the population follows up what is from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e360	Defence has not been the subject of this debate at all. It's probably just because the government has actually done what they committed themselves to last year. They have entered a budget that is broadly in line with what they promised last year. That being said, the government parties and the Workers' Party made a so-called defence policy settlement last year, a settlement by which the Government departed from its own Semi-Declaration, which was part of the basis of the agreement with the Progress Party for the formation of the Cooperation Government. A strange word, by the way. So far, I haven't noticed that they're cooperating with people other than themselves. In that case it should be an unnecessary term. The Labour Party/Government agreement resulted in a strong reduction in the budget and therefore in defence capacity. This fit, of course, the Workers' Party excellently, a party that has never been defence-friendly, but which has, in contrast, been the subject of a reduction in defence for many years. The party of progress has been completely sidelined, said the chairwoman of the Defence Committee, Marit Nybakk, in his statement here yesterday. That, of course, is completely wrong. On the other hand, the Labour Party and the Government are on the sideline. Yeah, they're almost on the stand. They have so far fulfilled the Government's intention in the Sem Declaration. Here again, the Progress Party is not on the sideline, but on the path. The working party showed flexibility in order to get a settlement," Nybakk continues. Yeah, what don't you do to get a fury of the Defense. A settlement may be possible, but a settlement must contain something that is valuable. A settlement for the sake of the agreement is not worth anything, and that's what's happened here. Since September 11th, the world has changed. That's something we all agree on. There is currently uncertainty, unforeseeableness and instability in the world. The Prime Minister made a statement today on terrorism. There may be different ways of combating terrorism, but one thing is certain: if you don't have a strong and functional defence, the way is open to a terrorist attack without any risk of avertment or retaliation. It is therefore a paradox when the Government, together with the Workers' Party, talks about the danger of terrorism, in the same breath as they are building up the Defence at a rapid pace. The defence today lacks funds for the purchase of new and modern materials, and it was one of the arguments used to defuse the defence: modern material, less personnel – in fact, only the last thing has happened, because it is the easiest thing to do. This is so far only the Progress Party that has taken responsibility for it through increases in its budget proposals, also in line with what was promised last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e371	The cross-train opposition had against the government's district policy of the year that has passed, at best can be characterised as up a bear and down as a skin trap. When, in its reply to the Prime Minister today, even the head of the Central Party does not find it necessary to comment on the government's district policy, it is well established that the Storting is satisfied with the government's direction and direction. The Government and the Right recognize that old solutions are not always the solution to the problems of the future. It hurts in the conversion phase, but my claim is that both the SND and the districts today are better equipped to meet tomorrow's challenges. The Co-operation Government and the Right have slaughtered sacred cows when the District and Regional Policy funds of the Ministry of Local Affairs are now allocated to the counties without central ties. For the right, it is an important principle that those wearing the shoe should choose the type of shoe. This is now also true of regional and regional policies. No government has been so focused in its fight for aviation in Norway. Harald Haarfachre gathered Norway to one kingdom, while aviation largely keeps people and businesses together. On 11 September, air communications in Norway put on a major test and the total aircraft monopoly became a fact in Norway on 1 April this year. Thanks to the action of the Co-operation Agency which abolished the air passenger fee, removed the award credits and awarded new actors State contracts, it was possible to reverse a development that seemed impossible to avoid. Flight prices in Norway are going down, but it might as well be the opposite. The Snow White Decision in Stortinget and the Minister of Finance's work against ESA alone have led to an upsurge in an area that had problems. The result is a long way to go today, barely six months later. Old businesses in the area employ more people, new businesses establish themselves, and young people have a hope for a future in Finland as well. Those who voted for the Snow White Development will take their share of the honor so that a part of the country can rise again. Knowing all this, it is understandable that the criticism of the Government regarding district policy has ceased. Only after one year has the Co-operation Government delivered results to other governments have not been clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e386	The government has tried through this persuasion debate to signal the need for a tight budget that respects our competitiveness, and a level of interest that we can feel is acceptable, and I think that is a right and a good priority. So the government goes on to say that in such a situation, it is important to strengthen the efforts of groups that have been low priorities for a long time, rather than providing general well-being to everyone. And then I have to ask, are the top valuers a group that has been low priority for a long time? The government wants to give $0.5 billion in tax bills to the top taxpayers, and I dare say that these are tax bills that the recipients find insignificant, and in addition it goes to those who need it at the very least. The Prime Minister said in his speech earlier today that the tax bill in connection with the top tax was modest and went to ordinary people. I can tell it's a message. I myself am one of the approx. 775 000, which is going to benefit from this for next year, and I get less than 635 kroner in taxes. It keeps about to a coke at Rimi every Saturday, and I'm happy to. But even if these sums are modest, the total is important, and the total is going to be $0.5 billion. It shows that small and insignificant sums per person. the person becomes large amounts when many are required to have. And then we know at the same time that not everyone gets. There are still 3 million taxpayers in this country who do not pay top taxes today, and who will not benefit from tax relief either, regardless of whether it becomes NOK 635 or more. The question I have to ask is, how can it be a bet on weak groups to give tax credits of $0.5 billion to 1/6 of the population, who won't even notice it? And how can it be socio-economically reasonable to do it for a year with the need for a tight budget when there are so many other areas where 500 million. Could it be much more useful — in school, health and care — to mention something? I've read a lot of finance under Victor D. Norman, and here I think I have to say that both he and the government have a solid explanation problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e399	The co-operation administration deserves commendation, especially for the renewed efforts made by the Government against coercion, where eight departments are involved in ensuring the breadth of the action chain and which will also provide these forced young people with the help they need. In contrast to the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which will replace some parental directives on certain marriages with a statutory prohibition on marrying siblings and a statutory ban on marriage before the age of 24, the Cooperation Parties recognise that the prohibition of law is not the solution to the problem. This challenge requires more work to be done at more levels. We have to work on prevention, more stringent maintenance requirements have to be imposed when applying for family reunification on the basis of marriage, but at the same time we have to have legislative changes that act as a more effective tool in the fight against forced marriage. The work of the Minister of Justice in this area, including: the introduction of unconditional public prosecution in forced cases and the clarification of the criminal law that unlawful coercion also concerns the issue of forced marriage will result in the increased penalties of up to six years in prison being also applicable to such coercion. These are important steps in the right direction. Poverty is to be combated, everyone says. The co-operation government has recently presented its action plan against poverty in Norway, and it is a crossroads that, instead of being constructive and helping to improve the situation of the disadvantaged in this society, most parties are more concerned with reducing this plan. Here the government takes a force to combat poverty, but meets a cold shoulder from the others, and especially from those parties that have always said that they have a warm heart for the weak. Now the government has given the Storting a unique opportunity to cooperate to combat poverty, but after listening to the debate on the throne in the last two days, I am very excited to see if the opposition is able to take advantage of this opportunity and show that they actually believe what they are saying about getting the situation better for those who fall outside. The Minister of Social Affairs is entitled to the fact that poverty is a complex problem that calls for targeted solutions. Different needs require different solutions, and the search light needs to be focused on how much it pays to work. We have seen over a long time that welfare measures that benefit everyone do not help the poor out of poverty. Now it is about getting targeted instruments in the welfare community, which requires both the ability and the willingness to innovate. I have to say, I want the government to be happy with the important and heavy job it has now started to change Norway to become an even better country to live in, and especially for those who don't have it so well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e412	The global picture is still changing. This has resulted in increased trade between countries, increased economic, political and regional cooperation between national states. More effective communications between countries and people also provide, among other things, services. greater mobility of people and peoples, but also increased use of, inter alia, The Internet for good and evil. Unfortunately, a freer and more open world of good intentions has also given us new challenges in terms of fighting crime. Only ten years ago, the crime scene was quite different. Now we are constantly concerned about the spread of trafficking, or trafficking in human beings, organised crime, drug traffic, imported prostitution environments, MC crime, or, for that matter, illicit use of the Internet for pornographic purposes, which is spreading to most countries in our region. I also want to mention an increasing detection and blooming of financial crime both at home and outside. Discoveries of major international financial scandals occur elsewhere in the world, but indirectly affect Norwegian conditions. Last year's terrorist threats also create insecurity and thus lower life expectancy for many people. All these forms of crime require new instruments. The Right and Cooperation Administration want to change Norway. We must therefore change our policies to the reality of the day, and not, as the Workers' Party and SV often do, leave us out of the reality of criminal politics. The free and democratic world was united in the fight against terrorism and can do so to a far greater extent than today in the fight against international crime. One of the main instruments we need to use in the fight against crime with distinctions in several countries is committed cooperation through, among other things. UN, Europol, Interpol and other supranational bodies. Crime committed in Norway with external analyses cannot therefore be effectively investigated and prosecuted in Norway but will require police and prosecution cooperation across borders. In this perspective, the time between the offences being committed and the convictions can be as short as possible. For this reason, the Right will change Norway so that criminals and those who have to speculate in committing crime will know that the resources of the police, courts and courts are adapted to this reality. Adequate resources for the criminal response chain and deterrent forms of criminal response should reduce this type of crime to the greatest extent possible. For government parties, making everyday life safer for you and me is an important goal. Government parties aim to change Norway. The fight against crime is important in order to create a safe society. It requires recognition of reality, it requires international cooperation, it requires important budgetary priorities, and it requires adequate forms of criminal response.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e431	The government said in the Common Era that it placed emphasis on the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage and respect for the individual human being. For the Progress Party, the right to live is a fundamental right in Norway. It is normal for friends and neighbors to bring flowers and congratulations when people have managed to wear themselves to a home for their family. Unfortunately, it is also normal here in Norway that the malturt comes in the form of property taxes, taxes on its own housing and property taxes. This as a greeting from the municipality and the state for well done work. What one has to ask is the following: Has the municipality and the state delivered any goods that qualify for payment? The answer is no. We in the Progress Party therefore reacted positively to the fact that the current government will abolish taxes on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings. We understand that this has to be done step by step, but that the reductions are too small. When the government then in its budget proposes a reduction of the equation values by 5 pst., it is far too small. A normal Norwegian family of children will save no more than a few hundred copies a year — and that is very little compared to all that young people have to pay to the authorities when they are set up in order to be able to live in their own house. Last year the free amount for the calculation of the benefit tax was increased from 51 250 kroner to 80000 kroner. This was a contribution to a reduction, but this too is very small. When, in two years, the government has failed to bring down the housing tax more, there is no reason for the families of children to rejoice. Although the majority of this high-ranking assembly has adopted significant annual increases in the housing tax, except last year, it is now our hope that we can reduce the housing tax again so that it monnes and finally get it abolished in its entirety. For the budget, is the financial basis for the implementation of the objectives of the Common Era?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e444	Large oil and gas revenues have contributed to the well-being and wealth of the North. It must not be a sleep cushion, we must continue to create values in the mainland economy to ensure the welfare and security of future generations. The competitive business situation is serious. Large corner stone companies have gone bankrupt or flagged out, more labouring to survive. Norway’s Bank estimates that 60 000 industrial jobs will be lost over a decade. Senior researcher Holmøy in the Statistical Central Bureau believes that our country needs more industry in the next ten years. The number of industrial workplaces needs to be increased by 30,000 over the next 10 years in order to ensure a long-term balance in the foreign economy, he claims. When the wave of older people is fully deployed after 2020, we need more money on the book, including abroad, to meet our commitments. The companies in mainland Norway have to sell more abroad than we buy back to ensure this, he says. And it's wise words to listen to. The Industry Forum of the Association of Uppland will have special arrangements for the industry to have a breathing room. They point out that companies are struggling, including the high-tech ones. Workplaces have been lost, there are lay-offs, and there are plans to step down several places. Enterprises do not have sufficient conditions of competition, so the Joint Association has made a number of proposals to improve the framework conditions for industry, proposals that will certainly reach the size of the budgetary process. Also in transport, there is a need that needs to be met in order for us to be able to transport our goods in the long term. An attempt at top financing with Rv 4 tolls, a highway we've been waiting for for over 30 years, seems to be very difficult. The traffic image has changed, roads with poor standard are heavily loaded. Traffic view in the centre is just as hopelessly dense, noisy and environmentally destructive. In this situation for industry, it is serious that the draft budget for the Government weakens the support for industry and maintains a cut in the SND. Work means a lot to individuals and to society. However, if the framework conditions do not improve, more people will become unemployed, and with a weakened daily allowance scheme, municipalities will quickly receive additional expenditure on the social budgets – and in a day-to-day way with a very difficult local economy. The Labour Party is committed to work and well-being. We want to create and share. Our policy ensures fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e469	In the Roman Empire, the government advanced its commitment to the marine sector as incredibly important. Several research institutions have then also described the potential for increased value creation. Today's exports make the industry the second largest. It's 95 pst. of fish production goes to exports and amounts to approx. Thirty million. kr, the estimates for the next 20 to 30 years are a six-fold increase in value. It requires measures both for traditional fishing and better use of by-products, for breeding new species as well as research on unknown values and opportunities we can draw from the sea. I am very pleased that the Government has an offensive approach to these possibilities. The research institutions linked to the Bergen-Tromsø axis have now been identified as particularly important tools for the efforts of the Cooperative Government. The budget confirms that the Government is also following up with appropriations. The right parliamentary leader said in yesterday's debate that the Co-operation Government will change Norway with its policy. In order to trigger value creation and employment in Coast Norway, changes are needed. A challenge lies in the coastal fleet and its need for increased profitability. Here the Minister for Fisheries has announced that the allocation of cod quotas should now be fixed, with a distribution of 30 pst. to the sea fishing fleet and 70 pst. to the coastal fleet. In addition, the Minister for Fisheries has allocated coastal fleet quotas to four groups according to the so-called Finnmark model. This means that, for the first time, the authorities have stopped transferring allowances from the small vessels to the larger ones. It helps us to maintain a varied fleet structure with both jacks and larger coastal vessels. Such measures will undoubtedly help to ensure profitability and thus ensure the pattern of settlement along the coast. However, further action needs to be taken and the profitability needs to be improved by structural measures that enable fishermen to renew their vessels. A good working and living environment on board is also a correct response to the major challenges facing the fishing industry in terms of recruitment to a challenging and partly physically hard profession. Since I have a little more time left, I want to visit the representative of Width. His criticism of the Government's defence policy is on his own account. I think the government is very good at the statement that came from NATO, where the government gets to boast about the job it's doing with the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e480	The representative Inge Wohnning was up and talking about this debate being far too little about thinking in the long term. I actually agree with that. But then we should not forget that thinking in the long term is actually about acting every day. It is not possible to set long-term goals and then expect to take it later, you have to take it now. One of the long-term objectives of the Workers' Party is the actual work and well-being of all. If the Government agrees with the Labour Party that this is a good long-term goal, I cannot understand why it is acting as little as it does in this budget. It's a paradox that today, where almost 12 pst. of young people leaving, the Government will cut off measures to get people back to work. It's especially by betting on people that we think in the long term, because it's only in people that we can put values and knowledge that can build the country forward. It is therefore sad to see that with all the young people who are leaving the job today, we are at risk of losing hope, initiative and knowledge. This is why it is now about creating measures for young people either in the form of jobs or education. It was cut by AMO measures and the former Bondevik government even removed the Youth Guarantee, as the Workers' Party introduced. It was a blow to all the kids going free. And today we see that unemployment is growing – it is growing every day! Therefore, I would like to say to the representative Inge Wohnning and the Government that if they want to be with the Workers' Party in order to achieve the long-term goal of work and well-being for all, they must be with us and act now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e491	The Central Party will invite the Prime Minister to clarify what will result in the continuation of competition as a solution to ensure that municipalities can provide good services. Let me stress: we are in favour of modernising and improving efficiency in the municipal sector where possible, but we are also concerned that municipalities should take care of good professionals who can provide a safe common school and a more dignified care in the future. Modernisation and efficiencies are a long-term concern of most municipalities. Experiences so far as the exposure to competition is concerned are mixed. Consider the example of the elderly. The headquarters in Oslo have identified several quality problems that have now been corrected, but they are going underfoot. Berum had ambitions to launch 30 pst. of total translation. So far they've put out 6 pst. And the conclusions are, according to Newspaper May 8th, that the quality of the services has not become significantly worse. Please choose a goal to improve the services. There are also several similar examples. Even more so, this is tried internationally, which is successful, others have bad experiences. In Sweden, there is now a strong concentration on the provider side. International groups dominate, and prices rise. Both in Stockholm and in Helsingborg, hospitals have now returned to municipal operations. There are several reports from international studies that show that the supply system before cleaning, public transport and renovation often means a deterioration in the working environment and in pay and employment conditions, and that the quality of services is steadily falling. Why postpone Norwegian municipalities for the pressure that the government is now putting in the direction of postponing competition and privatisation, when the experience is so mixed? There is a great difference between being open to local initiatives where the situation is conducive to it, and the veto against not being presented by the Stortinget’s pulpit today. Right has wanted this for a long time, but there is reason in this area to ask: What has happened to the Christian People's Party? Today, there was a message on the News of the Day, where the Minister of Health said that the leaders had to be better off reducing the workload on those added. Many of these leaders are still in a municipality with a huge economy, where they are now going to count on the release of services after pressure from the government. My well-intentioned advice is: Take an internal discussion in the Government and see how they can increase the funds to the municipalities without pushing the employees so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e506	The persuasion debate, the opposition debate, is approaching the end. I think the opposition should be happy about that. I hardly think anyone is going to miss this debate very much, because it has contributed very little to the persuasion debate, namely to sketch out political alternatives. After all, parliamentarism as a set of governments presupposes that a government should have an up-and-coming opposition which, if the government does not have a firm majority behind it, may be able to come up with a government alternative if it is not satisfied with government policy. This debate has clarified that no such alternative exists. And maybe that's what's new in today's situation: you start to get acutely concerned about the fact that minority parliamentarism is not useful, and that at any price we have to get a majority government – I would almost have cost what it costs. That's really pretty weird. Why in the vastest world have we now had an urgent need for a majority government, even though it might consist of parties that have a very different view of such fundamental issues as Norwegian security and foreign policy? Such a coalition government has never experienced Norway so far, and hopefully we will never experience it in the future either. The only truly future-oriented and perspective-rich posts I have heard from the largest opposition party in this Parliament were held yesterday by the party's demise leader. It tells a lot in itself. Is there really something unique about the government situation we have today? At this morning's meeting today, the Labour Party's parliamentary leader performed to claim that we almost have an outstanding government situation in Norway at the moment in the entire history of the world. It must mean that the memory has become a dangerous card. The only new thing in today's situation is that the current government does not have a predictable opposition, and an opposition that is willing to take responsibility either for setting up a government option or for helping to give the current government a reasonable room for action. Maybe that's new. For previous minority governments, not least the Minority Governments of the Workers' Party, it has been possible to calculate a predictable opposition and an opposition that was willing to help provide the government with the space for action. Kåre Willoch stated in an entertainment debate called Holmgang for a time ago that it is to the detriment of Norwegian politics in general when the Workers' Party is a political vacuum. I think this debate has confirmed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e519	I believe that this debate has shown that the country needs a government with a more clear parliamentary basis than the current government has, and it is a responsibility for all parties to contribute to it. And that can happen either in the form that we get a traditional majority government where parties on the Biggest, which constitute a majority on the Biggest, cooperate in government, or in the form that we have a minority government with a more clear and stable government base in the Biggest, as you might say. have it in Sweden, and as I believe previous minority governments have had it in Norway, whether it was Willoch's minority government in the early 1980s or various labor party governments in the 1970s and 1980s, or as I believe it was when Gro Harlem Brundtland was prime minister and had stable cooperation on budget and economic policy with the central parties. In theory, there should be such a clear basis also in this big deal, in the sense that the Progress Party chose to support this government on the basis of the Sem Declaration and a large number of written answers. In practice, it turns out that the Progress Party does not accept the responsibility they took when they chose to establish this government and declare themselves to be the basis of the Government. I also think it is a problem that the Government does not fully recognise its parliamentary basis. And I think that is a problem both for the country, for the national Parliament and for everyone who is concerned about predictability in politics. For the problem is that if you want to make the long lines of economic policy one day with the Progress Party and the other day – or the second year – with the Workers' Party, to which you want to be a clear alternative, the result will necessarily be zigzag, winging, and that's not good. The voters in the country are entitled to clear alternatives, and then we all have a responsibility to try to help establish them. I've arranged for a centre-left cooperation. I believe that in many areas the Christian People's Party can achieve more by cooperating on the left, establishing a centre-left cooperation. I accept that the Christian People's Party has made a different choice, but of course the Labour Party has its full right to complain and to believe that one can achieve more by cooperating in a different direction than the Right and Advance Party. It is our contribution to trying to point out how we think it can be established a good majority option. But to achieve such cooperation, more than one partner is needed. It is also necessary for those who together can form a majority of the centres-left to participate in such cooperation. As long as that will is not present, there is also no majority in this room for a centre-left cooperation. Then I also drew myself to just comment that when the representative Hagen says that I lack basic knowledge about mathematics, accounting and budgeting, I really think it says more about Hagen than about me. And I want to praise the Government for its steadfast opposition to the attacks of the Progress Party on the use of more oil money. It's Hagen who has a problem, and not the Government or the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e528	Let me first repeat to Jens Stoltenberg that at the moment I cannot see that the Progress Party has so many problems at the moment. It's actually a lot of other parties that have, and not us. Otherwise, I find it interesting what Jens Stoltenberg continues to highlight when it comes to the Government, that you have an agreement or a better contact with a government basis. I understand that this is a new recognition that Jens Stoltenberg has made after the last working party governments, who had just not made anything very clear, and who subsequently also criticized the Great Britain, which dominated too much with minority governments. I understand it's a new recognition. However, if a minority government could have an agreement or a clear basis, it is clear to the party that should be that basis, or be contractual partners – in the current situation, I assume that he thinks of the Progress Party – and he is also well aware that it would be impossible for us to be a sort of basis for the current government and have an agreement with the current government without automatically involving us in the budget also in consultations and discussions or negotiations before the budget is presented. If one is to have such a role, it must be something more contractual. No lot will have any contractual obligations without similar influence. At least this applies to the Progress Party. Then to my reply to the Prime Minister earlier today. I was very disappointed with the answer. I felt I stretched out a hand to the Prime Minister. It was not accepted well. I would like to remind you that the rule of action says: ‘A phase-in phase-out is envisaged in line with the expected real return of the Petroleum Fund.’ And the second main point is: ‘It is necessary to... place great emphasis on balancing fluctuations in the economy in order to ensure good capacity utilisation and low unemployment.’ Therefore, it is really alarming that the Government does not ensure that new calculations of the situation in the Norwegian economy are carried out after they have made their budget several months ago. Developments in the last few weeks and perhaps in the last month are clearly negative for the rest of the world. The notices relate to redundancies or closures of enterprises, to permits and cancellations. The same thing happens in the Norwegian economy. And then there's a whole new situation, where the Ministry of Finance should calculate if not also the rule of action actually opens up a slightly higher degree of stimulus to the economy to counteract a growth in our unemployment. I think it's disappointing, when the government itself calculated up to 800 million. Last year, as nothing really happened in particular in the economy of the Stoltenberg government, the Bondevik government made the budget available, it did so, that we do not provide up-to-date calculations, just in order to provide better information to the Stortinget and the population about why it is so very important to increase the oil fund by NOK 138 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e551	There's kind of a lot of things here today and yesterday that are historical. Something was quoted from Stoltenberg in relation to the parliamentary basis. I believe it is quite historic when the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party and the parliamentary leader of the SV invites the Progress Party into the Bondevik Cooperation Government, because that is what has actually happened in the debate here. It is up to the three parties themselves to consider who is to be in charge, with whomever will be involved in government cooperation. Still, I have to say that the history of Stoltenberg does not quite hold true when it comes to previous governments in Norway. I have tried to check it during the break, and as far as I know, there has never been an agreement between the center party and the working party. It has been good negotiations many times, good cooperation, because it is quite right that then there was a responsible opposition, an opposition willing to take responsibility. But it has never been a clear relationship that corresponds to that in Sweden, as the representative Stoltenberg tries to say today. So in relation to invitations, I'm here with copies of the posts of two nest-leaving candidates in the Labour Party, Trond Giske and Karita Bekkemelm Orheim. The way Trond Giske describes the Prime Minister and politics, I'm basically not prepared to repeat. That shouldn't have been said, and then I shouldn't quote it right now. And Karita Bekkelem Orheim is not standing back. It's not exactly special brewing what's happened here, compared to what's the representative Stoltenberg's favorite dream. Then I have a challenge for the representative Hagen. Citation: ‘This proposal for a new constitutional provision is intended to change this relationship so that both the return on the funds and the funds themselves are earmarked for the pension payments of the people’s pension fund.’ And then it says a little bit further down: ‘Then all those who may wish to use the funds for other and more commonly popular government expenditure will go on about constitutional changes that the voters will be aware of in a decision to increase.’ It's a very precise description of the use of our surplus and our oil wealth. The proposal was quoted here in Stortinget as late as 2000. Then it's amazing how it's referred to per. date, what the Government is responsible for when it comes to the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e572	To the extent that it should still be unclear, I think it is not only the experience of this government that suggests that minority governments must have a more clear majority base in the Stortinget. I also believe that the experience with the end of the Brundtland period and the Jagland period and with my own government warrants it. I sat in all the governments and had the joy of experiencing – what to say – the first few years, when I felt that it was a stable basis, in the sense that all budgets, harvests like ours, were settled between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. There were limited changes in the draft budget, and it was possible to implement a comprehensive policy that was consistent year after year. This is what we did from the Labour Party in the minority position, in 1996, when not least the centre parties demanded very big changes in the budget. Already then we began to feel that that basis was in the process of becoming confused. We went even further in that autumn of 2000, when we negotiated the budget with the centre parties. And that's the same situation, just further reinforced, I think the Bondevik government is now up in. So my recommendation and my wish is that, in some form, formally or more informally, in majority government or in the form of agreements in the Grand Duchy, a more clear parliamentary basis is given for a government. So it's based on the experience with this government, but I also want to say the experience of the last few years of labor party minor government in the 1990s and at the beginning of 2000. So it's the expression of a completely unnecessary hair ulcer, in my opinion, from the sitting government that this is something that's just an attack on them. It's also a confession that if we're going to have minority parliamentarism, that minority government must have some kind of stable foundation in the Storting, as we had it for many years. But I want to say that we didn't have it when we sat in Plaza in the autumn of 2000, and we did very well that year – I remember being a finance minister in 1996 – so already then this basis began to be confused. Then you have to re-establish a new basis, in which case the batches either have to choose that base to be centre-right, or the batches have to choose that it is centre-left. Some other type of majority does not exist in this room, and then you have to make that choice. And some kind of firm follow-up, I think, is that any government will enjoy it. Not least, the country, the Storting and all those who depend on predictable framework conditions, whether it's on shipping, it's those who depend on medicine, or it's those who depend on other conditions that are reversed from one year to the next, are served with some more stability, not least in matters as important as budget and economic policy. So there's also a big element of self-recognition in what I've said, and I've also expressed it on several other occasions. So I'm going to assess whether I'm going to take another three-minute post, but I just want to repeat that what the Progress Party is doing is spending money twice. Also there I refer to the excellent point made by the representative Lilletun.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e579	Jens Stoltenberg commended the government for its steadfastness in resisting the use of several billions of oil. I get to stress that this is a firmness not for the sake of perseverance, but because we know simply a responsibility for the economy of individuals, families, municipalities and businesses. If we lose billions, I'm pretty sure we're sending out an interest bill to these. And the interest rate is high enough as it is. It's too high. This is not something a Prime Minister has invented. Three senior analysts and chief economists say this afternoon about Hagen's invitation to us to spend another $10 billion, and according to the Net newspaper, their verdict is unanimous: it will give an interest rise of one percentage point. That means 800 million. kr more for the municipalities. That would mean, for example, for a family with a loan of 1.5 million, which is fairly common, net at least 11 000 kroner in increased expenditure per year. year – one thousand copies per year. month – and for enterprises, it is likely to mean the break for several of them, job losses or deflagration. I cannot stand here and take responsibility for this. And that's the reason for my firmness at this point. Hagen was disappointed with this answer, but this is the reason. Then he says that the government should at least then be able to even out the phase-in of oil revenue in the budget, because it will be in line with the rule of action. That's absolutely right, and that's what we're actually doing. We're leveling out. Should we have followed the rule of action mechanically, we could have taken out $2 billion less next year than we do this year, and then it would probably be $6 million. kr more in 2004. And everyone understands that such hope is unreasonable. We're evening it out, so we're taking out about as much of the oil money in 2003 and 2004, just as Hagen wants. In the case of invitations to other parties, Stoltenberg said earlier today that it was alarming that we sent out invitations in several directions. No, it's not very eye-catching. I remember the fall of 1998, I think it was. The Labour Party leader then stood at the party’s national meeting and opened the way for the Workers’ Party to cooperate with the Right on the budget. I'm not saying any more. I also have to say that I am somewhat surprised – if the Workers' Party is serious about the fact that they want to build a bridge over to the centre and towards the Christian People's Party – that one goes on such a one-sided black paint and criticism that even those who have had to be critical of much of what is happening to us will at least not perceive it as an invitation. And when we also experience such posts that came from one of the Workers' Party's Vice-Chair Candidates, Trond Giske, who is a personal attack, it's not exactly a way to send out an invitation. In fact, I hope the Workers' Party sees that. If this is serious, you should have a slightly different strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e590	First of all, our excellent draft constitution. Obviously, the old age pension costs a lot, much more than the 34 billion you take from the oil fund this year. You could say that. If they were earmarked, they would have gone to pay the social security and released the corresponding funds that have come from the state budget this year to pay it. So here there's no double payment at all. Then I would like to stress to Jon Lilletun that once we have talked about this, we have also clearly said that we want a new system for the treatment of oil revenues. Today they first go into the fund, and then they are taken out of the fund. We want those revenues to enter the State budget in the normal way, and then at the State budget treatment, we adopt a commitment into the oil fund. Once that allocation has been adopted into the oil fund, the money can only go to designation to pay pensions. I want to make it clear, because everyone now thinks that we have such a steady phase-in of oil revenues, that we've gone down 8 billion kroner compared to last year. Last year, 42.3 billion oil crowns were used. In next year's budget, it's set at NOK 34.8 billion, so there's a decrease of NOK 8 billion. The years before, there were 1.6 billion kroner and 7.9 billion kroner. So here's the significant change. So the prime minister says these three comprehensibles are right. They're some new gurus. All the guru and economists that the Prime Minister is talking about said, and the Prime Minister himself said that if he only got the envelope for the 2002 state budget he wanted during the budgetary procedure last year, it was a good basis adapted to the Norwegian economy for a fall in interest rates. During the revision, we heard exactly the same thing, that it was a well-adapted financial framework that would contribute to the fall in interest rates. If the prime minister and these experts were right, we would have had a drop in interest rates, but we got an increase in interest rates. After all, it is all those in the Ministry of Finance who have guided Norwegian economic policy and set the framework every year. And the government after government has been satisfied with the budgetary procedure and the framework adopted. Nevertheless, despite all these experts who have run, we have Europe's highest interest rate. How in all the world is this related? Listening to the advice of the experts has meant that we have the highest interest rate. I think there are many other instruments in the economy than the macroeconomic ones that matter. We could, as I have said before, have had income policy cooperation and made sure that the cost growth of businesses and municipalities was much lower because the state could have waived some taxes, instead of shifting burdens on businesses and municipalities. Now I understand that the Prime Minister has come to the realization that income policy cooperation may make sense, where the state can talk and negotiate with the parties to ensure a lower wage settlement. Think if the Prime Minister had listened to us on March 19th, and think of Jens Stoltenberg had also done the same with Kristin Halvorsen!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e607	I don't think the calculator is a very effective weapon against Carl I. Hagen. It's mainly because most people hear a completely different lesson now than they heard that we all went around in the campaign. Most people didn't hear that we were talking about the risk of a strong dollar price, the need to tighten up and risk increasing interest rates. People most experienced parties that sat in rows and rows and promised gold and green forests to a greater or lesser degree. Rightly promised tax and school, school and tax, tax and school. And people have expectations that then there will come something like monks, both at tax and at school. After all, the Prime Minister’s own party was not left with one ‘pillmit’ when it came to promises of the glory that would flow beyond the country. The youth school was to be upgraded, the kindergarten tariffs were to be less than NOK 1500, and there would be room for everyone. Yes, even at a press conference in Drammen, the current Prime Minister, the time of the campaign candidate Bondevik, promised a reduction in collective tariffs of 25 p.m. It seems like a joke if you hold it up against what is now the collective effort of the Government I believe that Carl I. Hagen has very good days, because no one has prepared any of the voters that it could be harsh commandments and necessary priorities. And in that situation he's brilliantly positioned, with one leg inside and one leg outside, and has the perfect rule over a government that's not a center government, but is a center-right government, deployed with the help of Carl I. Hagen. It's this paradox that I think is terribly difficult for the voters to understand anything of. They are totally unprepared for a situation where in a rich country you have to tighten up. They just see parties jumping off their promises, and they don't understand how it's going to go through a campaign that's about school, when you count for bonds around in too many schools. It's not a matter of access, and it's not a matter of understanding why it's not possible to put more effort into their very heart business. But even for Carl I. Hagen there are limits! I met someone in the street this day who thought that Carl I. Hagen had promised NOK 138 billion more for all good purposes. Then it evaporated to 10 billion kroner here during the morning today, so if he and the Progress Party were taken seriously, there were limits also for what good purpose Carl I. Hagen could promise money for. Then, too, the Progress Party had to give some sort of priority. I think that's actually the only way to get this debate to go a little further. The government has faced the worst possible situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e619	I have to say I'm far on the way sharing Kristin Halvorsen's reasoning here, although I might have to take a small reservation with regard to the pill mite, because I'm not sure if I know how much a pill mite is. There is a rather strange debate that has arisen. I have some problems understanding why Jens Stoltenberg has so much to do with the government having a clear basis in Stortinget. It's actually more the government's problem than it should be Jens Stoltenberg's problem. In fact, as Kristin Halvorsen said, this isn't a center government, it's a center-right government. I don't know how many times during the two and a half years of central government set, we just discussed that theme. One of the central party's objections to what the other two central parties wanted, namely to have the Right in government, was that in a government that also included the Right, the centre of gravity would move so much to the right in Norwegian politics that one would make one side dependent on the Advance Party. I read with interest a comment article from Erling Rimehaug who one year ago had asked some of the representatives of the Christian People's Party: How will it be to govern the grace of the Advance Party? To that Erling Rimehaug had been told that no, the Advance Party should do nothing but establish this government, and then we are free to cooperate with whoever we want! I do not understand that the Christian People's Party and the government parties have yet to realize that it is too simple – that this is not the case when one conducts a policy which, with one exception, is heading towards the Progress Party. When I look at the Prime Minister, I find at least two exceptions – the aid budget is not in the direction of the Progress Party either, but otherwise it is. With the exception of the rule of action, the use of oil money and what is being done in the area of aid, you are moving towards the Progress Party. It is in favour of more privatisation, it is in favour of outsourcing, it is in favour of tax relief, and it introduces a proportion that is counterbalanced to the tax reliefs in society – traditional right-wing policies which make it impossible for this government to invite to cooperate with anyone other than the Progress Party in budgetary terms. Of course, you can cooperate with others in other areas. But in what is the biggest and most important matter of the year, the budget, this government will depend on the Progress Party. You might as well recognize that. Then I think Jens Stoltenberg might be a little more relaxed about how the Government is going to clarify its parliamentary basis. It's in the sticker at Carl I. Hagen. He does just as he likes with this government. He will make sure to get the attention he wants beyond the fall, to then perhaps do the same as last year, bend away from a cabinet question, and then stand free to do exactly what the Advance Party will in all other matters beyond the coming year. It's a problem for the government, but it should also have realized about the formation a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e632	The representative of the Halvorsen is right at one point. I think it's a general problem for us that we in a program process and in an election fight too much will. I was in charge of a program committee once, and my experience was enough to be able to do enough in the process and at the national meeting is a difficult exercise. So there's the representative Halvorsen right -- it's a shared responsibility, and we have a common problem. I have to say in a personal comment that I may not think the representative Halvorsen is the one who has done the best exercise in relation to that. Then there's a point that I want to correct, and that's: one has not got what we said in the election campaign. Well, with the good environmental policy pursued by this government, we must at least be a few that there is now more hope of 'green forests', as she called for and claimed we had promised. Why was there a center-right government? Selectors are essential in a selection. Selectors passed an option to the Right, not to the centre. Therefore, it was natural that the voters also got a pass at the time. We got a Sem statement that endorses a good center-right policy. What I would also like to say is that once we've been discussing the number of thrones for two days, we could go more into real discussions about the choices, without just describing them as something negative, but analyzing them. This government has gone into a path where it tries to be targeted against poverty and weak groups. There's a choice that's been made, and one says that we haven't been happy in general, so let's try it out. The representative Kristin Halvorsen had some objections, and there have been many others. Many have described this as an example of a very unsocial profile. Yes, wasn't it better that we had a debate on it? We have reason why we did that. I had actually expected an analysis of what was the problem with this. I'm happy to try this out, and my hope is that here are many people who need help, who are going to get help, instead of a general lubricating equally. I think we have a way to go in relation to holding the debate. The representative of Jagland is the most honorable exception of all – I kept saying, of course, except the government party. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e643	That there is a need to look at how the Stortinget conducts the debate on the throne, the President shall fully agree. But there's one thing that we're going to come back to another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e646	Kristin Halvorsen made a point that the voters were expecting that when the Right came into government with the Christian People's Party and the Left, something would be done both when it came to lower taxes and better school. We've started meeting both of these points. Taxes and taxes have been reduced by 17 billion of the promised NOK 31 billion, we have expanded the school day with one extra hour in Norwegian in primary school, and in this budget we propose a strong commitment to higher education and research. This debate has clarified that while the Co-operation Government is changing Norway, the Labour Party continues to faminate in the blind. With one exception: the working party has clearly selected page. In the 1980s and 1990s, we had a moderate working party that could also cooperate with the Right and Center parties in various matters. Now the Workers' Party has chosen SV. This means that the Workers' Party chooses SV, not only in the cases where the Workers' Party and SV agree, but they also choose SV in cases where the Workers' Party often chose to cooperate with the Right before. This concerns security policy, where the Workers' Party will now cooperate with SV, in Europe's policy, industrial policy and parts of energy policy, yes, and if we go back to parts of the 1990s, the Labour Party and the Right also cooperated on a larger fiscal settlement. Now Jens Stoltenberg has chosen a side, he has chosen the Right as a possible partner in key, important matters, and he has only chosen to cooperate with SV. Otherwise, I'm left with a creepy feeling that this debate on majority rule is a manoeuvre to turn away from responsibility. The situation in the past was that there was a responsible opposition that cooperated with the government parties, whether it was the central parties that cooperated with the Workers' Party when the Workers' Party was in place, or the Progress Party and the Right that cooperated with the government parties and found solutions. Now you're more concerned with trying to create chaos, criticise and blackmail the situation. Finally, the representative Hagen says that interest went up after the budget. That's not right. After the Co-operation Government came forward and adopted its budget last autumn, the interest rate went down. So the interest rate went up now in the spring, and it was justified by the central bank with the liberal pay settlement. This government has experienced that interest rates went down on the basis of the budget, and that interest rates went up on a liberal payroll, in other words that we are back where we were when the government took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e657	SV had the great honour and joy of having his election camp next to the Christian People's Party election camp away at Karl Johan in the election campaign. Then the interesting situation arose that the Christian People's Party stood and offered public transport, which was to go all day and in addition was to be 25 p.m. cheaper. Our match candidate, Heidi Sørensen, had to stand next to explaining why SV could not promise 25 pst. cheaper public transport, because we thought it was more important first to bet on a better offer. In fact, I believe that the Christian People's Party should go a little round in terms of its promises. I think it is alarming that, in the course of a throne speech, the Prime Minister actually frees all sides: a round to the Advancement Party, a round to the Workers' Party, yes, even a knock on the door to us could clearly be within reach. But I think the Prime Minister has forgotten that he no longer runs a central government. At the moment you entered into a government cooperation with the Right, and came into position with Carl I. Hagen's help, it's a center-right government. Then you can't pretend you don't have any leads on the policy to be pursued. I'm not very good at baking, and before Christmas there are always such recipes in all the weekdays: make one dough and get seven beats. That's what appeals to those of us who are not masters of housewifery. I have this on my mind that Kjell Magne Bondevik was in the vicinity of – a neutral dough that with a small density of one or the other spice or pastry color could either be something in the right direction, in the direction of the Workers' Party or in the direction of the Socialist Left Party, a small base that you can do whatever you want to do. But that's wrong. The Christian People's Party has done this with open eyes. This is not a destiny that has affected them. They have chosen with open eyes a cooperation with the Right and help from Carl I. Hagen. They've answered all the questions. They have accepted that the Progress Party decided who would be Prime Minister. Now we have the situation that while the Right Governments glow and smile, yes, they even like to tighten in and cut down – Erna Solberg is at her best when she's going to explain exactly that, and do it with straight back – then they're from the Christian People's Party sitting paleer and paleer and more and more concerned that it's difficult for the voters to recognize the Christian People's Party before the election and after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e666	It is true, as the finance minister said in a TV debate, that Kristin Halvorsen is quite good as an commentator and above all, and especially when it comes to commenting on other politicians' doing and loading, acting and body language. I don't think it's the most important thing. In fact, I think with my straight back today I have defended a government budget. I've done that, and I'm going to do that. I do that because I don't want people, municipalities and businesses to get an increase in interest rates. It doesn't help with the millions that Kristin Halvorsen will distribute to different groups, if these get a much larger bill than her increased addition proposals. And so it's interesting that when the opposition leaders Stoltenberg, Hagen, Enoxen and Halvorsen are going to draw pictures of the political parliamentary situation, these images are very tactically imprinted, and it turns out that the images are contradictory and do not hang together. The Enoch believes that the Government is already unilaterally dependent on the Advance Party. The message of Kristin Halvorsen is that no, you must make yourselves dependent on the Advancement Party, so that we can be held accountable. It's not in the jump. The government has shown that we can cooperate with different parties. When it came to the big issues in ours, we made up the revised and the municipal economy with the Progress Party, we made up the defence plan, the social security and the agricultural settlement with the Workers' Party, and we settled climate policy and bio- and gene policy with SV. But this is the opposition's problem, because they want a fixed block of the Government and the Advance Party. You don't really get a say in the government because we're not like that. I'm sorry, but the Enoch won't get the picture he's after. So Kristin Halvorsen says that I've probably forgotten that I'm not running a center administration. Yes, I am fully aware of what government I am running. I've been in both the Center-Right-Registration before and in the Center-Registration. But it is also a fact that this government has opposition on both sides, of the Progress Party and of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, although there is no uniform opposition, because the three crack in every possible direction. So it's also possible, as it was for the center government, to find solutions both ways. We've done the same thing, and I'm not ashamed of it at all. The sum of it can be a good policy. And then finally all the promises. I can agree with Party colleague Jon Lilletun that it can sometimes be a lot. But one must also, when looking at the realization of the promises, take into account that one is in cooperation and compromise. The crucial thing for us is that it goes clearly in the right direction: school upgrades are in progress, kindergartens and prices. It is a historic promise we are now making in this draft budget. It goes in the direction that we agree on. We've started the collective effort. But it is easy for SV to criticise, which has never been in a commitment cooperation. And if SV is going into government with the Workers' Party once, they will certainly experience that all the promises that Kristin Halvorsen has thrown out on Karl Johan and elsewhere – here I think she is going all the time – she will of course not be able to achieve 100 pst in a compromise with the Workers' Party, which has some other priorities. This is a four-year program. We are currently one year out of the period. And you have to think about that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e681	The Rules of Procedure provide that in such general debates the group leaders may speak as many times as they wish. Therefore, the team leaders themselves decide how long this should last.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e684	Yes, with a small reservation, I expect that this is my last post. It's a little dependent on what's being said after me. I'm going to start by doing something formal, and it's that I'm going to urge the Workers' Party to vote against all the proposals. It is not because we in particular disagree with all the proposals, but it is because I believe we should have a high threshold to vote in favour of proposals promoted in this type of debate. For example, proposals to have an assessment of the resource situation at school or an annual report on poverty reduction for the Storting are issues that can be addressed well in the context of matters within the committees, such as: in the context of the poverty message. So we are not necessarily against it, but we simply believe that it is unnecessary and unnecessary proposals and that we need a high threshold to vote in favour of this type of proposal. So just briefly about the general debate. I would like to remind you that it was not only Odd Roger Enoxen who in his time argued against taking Right into the central government, but also representatives of the Christian People's Party and Bondevik themselves, with the reason that he sees today is a real reason, namely that then one will make one-sided and unnecessary depending on the Right and the Advance Party and give the Progress Party too much influence in politics. I believe that the Sem Declaration and not least the 52 written answers from the Government to the Advance Party illustrate and show how this government was not only deployed, but made itself dependent on the central points of the Advance Party. Therefore, this is not a central government that can easily maneuver between the different parties, but that creates too much distance from finding simple and good compromises, and that, therefore, in such a central area as economic policy, where there should be some coherence over the years, and where there should be a line through what is being carried out over the years, proposes to be able to invite three completely different parties with different positions to create budgets. It's not a plan for cleaning up, it's not a plan for a tough course, but it's a plan for uncertainty. My answer to that is that all the parties at Stortinget should feel a responsibility for having a different type of basis for pursuing a more coherent policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e695	I'd like to reply to Jens Stoltenberg. I think most of those who remember back to 1996-1997, remember very well that without the persistence of the Central Party, there would have been a relatively great chance that the Right had been in the last Bondevik government. So it's not the way Jon Lilletun wants it to be that it was the voters who made sure that the Right Party is in government today, it was actually the Christian People's Party that did. The right has 36 staging representatives, and was dependent on having others to join in forming the government. It's a choice the Christian People's Party has taken. I have not, as the Prime Minister claims, said that the Government is unilaterally dependent on the Progress Party. On the contrary, I said in a number of cases the government can cooperate with other parties. The government has done that too, but in economic policy and in order to get the budget through in this room, my claim is: the government will be 100 pst. depending on the Progress Party, if the policy presented by the Government in the budget presented on 3 October is to be implemented. I cannot, with my best will, understand who else that budget is to be a proposal. I've explained that before, and I repeat that. So it is not that I have said that the Government is unilaterally dependent on the Progress Party, but the Government has put itself in a situation where one has to do with a partner or a parliamentary basis that will not acknowledge the government that was provided a year ago, and it is unfortunately so mutual that it is visible to everyone. It's, as I said before, a bigger problem for the government than it is for the opposition. It definitely has nothing to do with us, the Working Party or SV for that part, I would assume, is not prepared to take responsibility. On the contrary, in the spring of 2000, a few months after the central government had to go off because of the gas power decision, we actually made up the revised national budget with the government of Stoltenberg, where the center agreed to the autumn of 2000 with the government of Stoltenberg. That Stoltenberg doesn't like to have to move around NOK 20 billion, that's its case. But the centre parties took responsibility, and I actually think most people are prepared to do so, but it must be based on the fact that the policies that are being pursued go in a direction for which the parties can take responsibility. You cannot take responsibility for a policy that is far from what you want. I'm sorry about the situation today. Therefore, the Government has made itself dependent on the Advance Party and no one else.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e704	I thought I was going to be able to stay away from this debate, but it was the Prime Minister's last post that made me respond. I think it's going to be a little bit of a lecture, but it was actually directed at Kristin Halvorsen in relation to SV's lack of experience in government, but I felt a little hit myself, because it's not like the SV and the Progress Party don't have government experience because they have refused to take it. It's de facto so that there's someone who's prevented them from getting the opportunity to do it. In fact, they were such that the Progress Party just after the election made it quite clear that we were prepared to assume government responsibility together with the parties that are now in government, in a majority government that could conduct a stable policy over a long period of time. We didn't even have an opportunity to try that out. The Prime Minister has now made it quite clear from this pulpit that this government is completely independent. It is so independent that it reserves the right to cooperate with SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party when appropriate to the Government. It is a good point of view, but then it is little connected with the powerful ointments of Jan Tore Sanner that the parties turn away from responsibility and create chaos and black paints and critics. What responsibility is it that you turn away from? And which of these parties is really going to feel that they're turning away from responsibility, when the Prime Minister is standing here and saying that none of you are responsible, because we decide which of you we're going to cooperate with when it suits us? When will we know when we have that responsibility and not? And when are we going to feel that we're going to take that responsibility or not, when the government is going to be so independent of those degrees that none of the parties are going to feel that it's kind of them it would be natural to commit to? It's starting to make this debate much more difficult. I think with all due respect that that responsibility should also affect the government parties in the time we are now going into. It should not least be a matter of holding agreements. I have heard that a lot of the vocabulary here is about building bridges. Lilletun has been very busy building bridges to each other. Yes, then my question to the government parties is whether it is building good bridges to make an agreement and then three months later to break it, and so expect the same party to enter into a commitment cooperation once more. I think you should think about that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e713	Siv Jensen says in his last post that the Progress Party and SV have not refused to accept government responsibility. No, I'm fully aware of that. Both of them want to join the government in two different constellations. I have also not claimed that SV and the Progress Party have refused government responsibility. But I have said – and it must be allowed to believe – that I believe that part of the policy, not least the contributions of Kristin Halvorsen in the case of promises versus compromise, is marked by the fact that there has been no government. It's a fact. I have never claimed that the two parties say no to being in government. I am fully aware of that, and it has emerged in this debate that both of these two parties want to do so. When it comes to the government being able to cooperate with different parties, I have to point out that the Progress Party itself has said that as a child-helper, the party does not feel that they are responsible for such a long period as for example. a father shall have: This is the very word of the Progress Party, and we are dealing with that. But despite that, we have said that we want a budget solution with that party that makes the Cooperation Government sit. And it's going to be an honest attempt to find a solution, even though at times it might look a little bit difficult. With regard to the agreement from the revised national budget, we have told the Progress Party that we like to sit down and go through all 22 points – if there were 22, at least there were some twenty points – and look at each one of them. We may have a slightly different view of compliance with a few of the points that the Progress Party has, but we are willing to sit down and discuss and clarify. But I agree with Siv Jensen in one thing: keeping agreements is one of the most important things in politics. And I want to stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e723	Now we just saw in the main hall what a dilemma the government is in. As soon as the Progress Party starts to wonder where they have the Government, the Prime Minister must raise and point out the answers they sent one time or the other, and declare that they are of course on what they have said before. It is precisely this situation that plagues the Christian People's Party and the Government. But it hadn't bothered me so much – except that I'm a caring person in general – that it puts the policy into discredit. It's not possible for most people to find out who's responsible for what. Who is responsible for the tight local economy? It is the government parties and the Progress Party that have. Who is responsible for the social security scheme? Who is responsible for one and the other? It is not possible for the voters to find out. And as long as the government deals with the Advance Party in such a way that one has them in the armpit and partly at arm's length, the Advance Party can be fully controlled, determine exactly how the Government should be squandered every single day, and the whole policy is discredited. That's how it's going to be, and that's our concern. This cannot continue for three years without the last picker losing his last hope. We're going to have that situation, because we're going to be a rich country with money on book for many, many years to come. And that's a deliberate choice, because the bulk of the population pump the oil and the gas up as fast as they can. We have even opened the Barents Sea and subsidized the Snow White Development to get the gas there converted into crowns, so we can put it on book and see how rich we are. The pressure to spend the money on the heart things that each one has will be there all the time. That sense of reality would be completely impossible for any government to communicate when faced with a situation where you are a vulnerable minority government that does not dare to take the consequences of the agreements and the basis on which you actually have them.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e732	The representative, Halvorsen, says that people have doubts about who is responsible. I must say that there are things that indicate that people at the moment see who is responsible and have responsibility. We acknowledge and are proud that we have put forward a tight budget, for jobs along the coast and in the districts, for families and for the municipalities. We are proud that we are also doing something for the poor here at home and out there within a tight budget. We take responsibility. It is therefore quite wrong to say that it is not clear who takes responsibility. The government and government have done that, and we will do that in the future. Therefore, it is our hope that Stortinget will share the same responsibility that we can have a situation where the workplaces are taken care of, that interest rates will be reduced, so that families and municipalities will not get a worse situation. We're asking for cooperation. We ask that we actually do that job. We have a parliamentary situation that is obvious from the composition we have in Stortinget. But it's up to us. There should be no doubt that the government party – the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right – has taken responsibility and will still take responsibility and stand upright with that responsibility. There's still one minute left, but I'm still going to round, because I realize that the president is starting to get the same desire as the rest of us. I'm just going to end by giving the Workers' Party and Stoltenberg credit for one thing, and it's that they actually said they would vote against the proposals that are leading. The working party has used to be neat in relation to things that have not been worked through in committee or that are not consistently evaluated. The Government Party will also vote against the proposals. I have to say it in a slightly different way: I want the representatives of the governments to vote against all the proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e745	It was a soft formulation. Several have not asked for the floor, and the debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e753	We then go to voting in the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e760	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 4, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party. Mr Halvorsen has asked for the floor to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e777	I would recommend that the SV Group vote against the proposal No. One, two and three, but for proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e782	Odd Roger Enoksen to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e785	I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of proposal No. 1 against proposals Nos. Two and three. Proposal No. 3 will be dealt with in the context of the State budget. Furthermore, I would like to ask that proposal No. 4 is converted into a transmission proposal, because I know that it will otherwise be voted down.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e792	We shall vote first on proposal No. 4, which has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to submit annually to the Stortinget a statement on the status of alleviating differences and poverty reduction in Norway.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government requests a notification of the resource situation in primary and secondary schools during February 2003’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e814	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a notification of the minimum quality standard for the knowledge of primary school students at each basic class stage and ICT. [[reading, writing, billing and English]] Furthermore, the notification should propose the structural and resource measures necessary to ensure the rapid establishment of such a minimum standard. The notification shall be submitted by the end of the first half of 2003.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e829	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to refrain from softening the labour immigration legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-10-10-2.ana.ud570e844	The President will then propose that His Majesty the King speak to the 147th. The staging by its opening and notification of the state and control of Norway is annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
