ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e57	The weather is good, and there is a lot to do. How long the meeting will last today is completely dependent on the representatives themselves. The representative Eli Sollied Upperaas, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. From the representatives of Gunhild Øyågen and Michael Momyr, applications for leave are available from 10 June to 14 June, both for participation in the Norwegian delegation to the matt meeting in Rome. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Anne Kathrine Slungård, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the permission of the representative Michael Momyr from 10 June to 14 June for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period, for the South Trondelag counties: Ola Røtvej and Egil Hestnes3. Ola Røtvej and Egil Hestnes are elected to the Lamentations for the time they meet the representatives of Gunhild Øyang and Michael Momyr.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e115	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2969]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e132	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2969]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e149	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2969]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e165	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e174	Today, the second time this matter is up in Stortinget. The first time was in the Question Time on February 20th this year, when the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo asked the Council of State about the reconstruction of the Kautokeino anno 1852 in connection with the filming of the religious uprising that took place in Kautokeino that same year. The response of the Council of State, which was Laila Davayy, who replied on behalf of the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Church, was, as it is today, to define this as a national cultural building, priority is given to grants to cultural buildings until 2006. In February we talked about 10 million. kr. Now we're talking about 15 to 20 million. kr, as the majority, but also the minority, find it difficult to meet the cultural budget. The central party and the Left Party proposers state that the proposal being promoted does not relate to the means of filming itself, but only to the buildings and after-use associated with them. The financing of the film is almost clear, although in its response to the Committee dated 8 May 2002 the Ministry cannot fully support it. The whole project is very interesting, although both I and the others in the Committee believe that the project should be better developed and anchored in relation to both the economy and ownership. When Stortinget in June 2000 had St.meld. No 50 for 1998-1999, the defrosting message, for treatment, all parties, apart from the Progress Party, said that the government was to present a case to the Stortinget on the situation and living conditions in the inner Finnland, as it was clear that inner Finnmark had the same living conditions as the inner Oslo East. The Stoltenberg government followed this up, and said in the long-term programme for 2002-2005: ‘The government will work in particular to improve the living conditions of the interior parts of Finnmark and will immediately take action to remedy the situation through cooperation with the municipalities of the inner Finnmark, the county municipality and relevant industrial development environments.’ A group was set up and delivered their report on 21 January this year. Under action 16 in this report, the project Kautokeino anno 1852 was included as an important project, especially for tourism and tourism purposes. As Sunniva Juhls said during the hearing: today, Nordkapp is the goal, but all the way must be the goal between North Finland and North Cape. Nor should we forget that the entire population of Kautokeino was burned down during the evacuation in 1944, and that Kautokeino and the rest of Finnmark have virtually no historical buildings to show the outside world, although Finnmark has a long history. Thus, reconstructing parts of Kautokeino with buildings from 1852 would be historic, but also a start to a nutritional development that is sorely needed. In fact, the unemployment rate is over 10 pst. in Kautokeino. Who will then take responsibility for following up this project politically? The head of industry Leif Halonen in Kautokeino says that the municipality has never considered the re-creation of Kautokeino anno 1852 as a cultural building, but as an infrastructure building in the context of tourism, which can have a significant impact on the employment of the tourism industry in Kautokeino – defined as an industrial activity. The majority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party and the government parties therefore challenge the Ministry of Industry, while the SV and the Central Party challenge the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I encourage the Council of State for Culture to take this matter into the Government for discussion, and find out where it is most appropriate that the work on creating nutrient development in Finnmark must begin. I'm sure the best way to get the best result is to get several departments together about the work where this project is one of several. The majority in the Committee therefore ask the Government for a rapid feedback, in which the project has been carefully assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e209	Not everyone has been given to get a baba after themselves, although there are enough people who would want it, both among filmmakers and among politicians in this room. The rapporteur has explained the views of the Progress Party in this matter, with the exception of one point, where we disagree with the majority views. This concerns the need to have this reviewed in 2006. The Progress Party believes that this is not a State task. Rather, on the contrary, this must be economic development. And then there should be other stakeholders on the track than the state. Here is a unique opportunity for property developers and the business community in Kautokeino to get exactly what the filmmaker wants, a permanent building mass that can serve the community in more than one way. I agree that it might seem improper to build up settings for 5 million first. kr, probably of taxpayers' money, then to tear it all down again after the admissions have been completed. But then the party's appeal to the filmmakers is that they find a different solution to the financing. The danger of entering into such projects is that this may also have additional consequences for the State and additional costs if the operation of the buildings is not profitable. The argument that this building mass replaces the loss of jobs in the cleaning industry is being sought in my eyes, because the building mass itself will hardly increase activity. At least not when you think about who is going to use the buildings, and there are already large-scale measures already in place, which are also active without this construction. Another element must be that perhaps too late one refuses to produce films of historical value in Norway, if it is to remain a «museum» on all noses and otters in all regions threatened by depopulation. There are other instruments that should be used to raise the activity. Moreover, as we heard, priorities have already been made for the region, and we should therefore take these into account and not leave any snuff in the queue. There must be a certain predictability of what we politicians are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e228	The right party mainly agrees with the rapporteur's presentation in this matter, and I will give her credit for a thorough work. Facilitating the post-use of the film scenes for the planned film on the Kautokeino uprising is a good idea. Yes, it's a good project that might be a positive contribution to the general building environment as well as to the business community in Kautokeino. But as we see it, the project is a little bit elaborated. There is a lack of solutions to key issues. These include supporting calculations and financing plans, ownership and organisational structure and responsibility for operations, to mention something. We know about similar projects, such as: Jørundgard in Sel in the Gudbrandsdalen, which was built for the filmatisation of Kristin Lavransdatter, that the operation of such facilities can be a major challenge in retrospect. Another dilemma is that the project is not related to the other investments made in relation to Sami culture. If the State were to go into this with funds, the matter should have been taken into account in the context of the priorities of the Sameeting for the development of Sami museums and cultural buildings. In the proceedings before the Stortinget, there have been uncertainties in relation to the extent of private participation, operational responsibilities and ownership. If the project is further developed in a way that provides satisfactory solutions for this, and if local and Sami authorities want to give priority to the initiative, it would be natural, we think, to reconsider the matter, but then as a nutrition project aimed at Inner Finnmark. In the light of this, the right will support the request made to the Government to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e239	On November 8, 1852, there was an uprising at the Kautokeino church in Finnmark. When the uprising of the local population was over, Lenin Buch and merchant Ruth were both dead. From that time until our days, questions have been raised about the reasons for the rebellion. It has been wondered whether there was a religious uprising, whether it was also linked to social resistance in the population, not least to people coming from outside, in relation to the Sami culture and the conflict it brought. In any case, Kautokeino is still marked by the conflict that arose at the time, and families also identify with what happened afterwards, where two of those who came were from Kautokeino, and two years later were executed on what is called Galgerget in Alta. This means that it relates a unique story both to Finnmark and to the Sami population to what happened in Kautokeino in 1852. For a very long time, there have been expectations that there will be films about what happened, and I believe that the people of Finnmark in general and the people of Kautokeino in particular are very happy that Nils Gaup is going to make that film, because you feel safe that he has the necessary skills and insight about what happened. Now the proposal that has been promoted is not a proposal to support the film. But it is clear that in a society that experienced that the entire population, with very few exceptions, was completely burned down during the evacuation in 1944 – there is hardly a building again that the population can see – one sees a unique opportunity to recreate a community as it was in 1852, with the further possibilities of use that had to exist in the extension of it when the film was created. It is clear that it would be quite pointless if you built a settlement like the one in 1852 and then had to tear it down again afterwards. I note that there are a number of counter-conceptions in the committee because the project seems to be under-processed. But I also record that the municipality of Kautokeino has made significant efforts. Land has been set aside, filmmakers have drawn up the buildings in question, and plans have been made that are now becoming more and more concrete. And the challenge for the Biggest must be to accept that in the process new unforeseen opportunities could not have been taken into account in a long-term planning, just like in this case, because a film is now to be made. It cannot be that Norwegian filmmakers should look at the long-term planning of the Stortinget to coordinate their project with it, so that Nils Gaup would have made this film in 2007, instead of in 2003. This means, therefore, that the Storting must also show the will to change, to think new and to seize the opportunities, not least when the same Magnificent has just adopted measures for Inner Finnmark to create new jobs, new opportunities and new developments there. It is clear that it will be much more difficult both for the Greatness and for the Government on their own to come up with those ideas if they are not anchored in a community and accepted there. I must say that I have worked a lot on this matter. I don't think it's an isolated matter since I was elected to the Grand Council in 1997, which has engaged me as strongly as this one. And I've sometimes torn my hair when I've been outside and I've had to follow the process of the Culture Committee, and I thought you should have been there, you should have convinced them, you should have been more on, I haven't done enough. I have to say, however, that once the mind has calmed down a little, and I start to read through what it says – the remark related to the government's challenge to come back, look at it as a nutrition project and take advantage of the opportunities – I see it as an opening for something to be done about it. What I want to ask the Council of State for today is to respond to the comment on what kind of opportunities the Council of State is looking at just by releasing food, possibly in cooperation between several departments, so that filmmakers can get a signal about the possibilities of this permanent construction. Because if we don't seize that opportunity, what are some people going to think about the Greatness's ability to take what's going to happen when it's there? Thinking that this should be realised in 2007, the members of the Committee really also know that it is totally unrealistic. It can't be that five years after Nils Gaup received Oscar for the film, one has to re-establish the environment that he has had to tear down in the meantime. That can't be right. It must be when the film is realized that this must also be realized. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State for its view of the comment that exists here, when in the minority we do not get a majority for a decision on a grant to get it realized. Does the Council of State see the possibility that the Government can somehow assist here, in line with the majority, in order for this project to be realised? Finally, I address the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e256	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e259	According to the Central Party, this matter is about the relationship between what Storting says and what Stortinget later does. In the smoothing message, Stortinget has specifically asked for its own targeted actions for the interior of Finnmark, and a group has then worked on exactly that. The permanent restoration of a society in Kautokeino from 1852 is one of the measures proposed by this group. The size is now able to provide support for a project that is of great interest in the interior of Finnmark, a project that opens up to create major ringing effects both in Kautokeino and in the surrounding area. In February this year, the Municipal Committee visited some of the strongest Sami regions. We got a thorough briefing on the special challenges in the interior of Finnland. We were in Kautokeino. We gained insight into the specific challenges that lie there and that the case-speaker has done perfectly well. It made an impression. What we're talking about is a lot more than a cultural building. It is a conversion project that has a lot to say for travel life, for jobs and for the business community in Finland. I found it very positive with the signals that have now come both from the Labour Party and from the Right in the Chamber today. Let me say, it would actually be distant from the Center Party's way of working to intervene and take between 15 and 20 million. kr for this project from the cultural budget. We know something about how many measures there are that should be room for, but there is no room for today. We are working systematically to strengthen the cultural budget. We believe – and it is also underlined in the comments – that this is not a specific cultural project, but a project that has a ringing effect on business and must be seen as such. When the plural is found to give such a positive comment, but at the same time cannot be found to want to go as directly to work as SV and the Center Party is doing today, I am very pleased with the clear comment in column 2 on page 2 of the setting, which reads: ‘This majority will point to the possibility of viewing this project as a business project targeting Finnish internal market, cf. St.meld. [[1998 - 1999]] No 50 The Smoothing Message, and asks the Government to come back with an appropriate assessment as soon as possible.’ The center party and SV are some with this plural. Only the Progress Party will find it advisable to stand outside. I want to invite the Council of State to respond to this remark. I know that she has a commitment to cultural projects, and I know that in this context she has a challenge in relation to other government councils that need to get into the picture, but here, corruption and government have a good chance of contributing to something that we all have to be a few about can cause ringing. We now have a chance to show that there's a match between what we say and what we do. The feedback both to Stortinget, to those who work with this film, and to the municipality of Kautokeino and the area there, is a response that is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e279	With such clear challenges from two of the representatives, I have to take the floor. First of all, I would like to stress that the handling of this matter does not imply a no to the film. The film project should proceed in the sense that all other film projects. So my answer to the committee is not a no for the movie. This is not the video request we are handling here today. Then there's a couple of representatives talking about the real chance we have today of saying yes to a great cultural project. I actually have that chance many times a month. I have visits to different delegations that have just one project that we have to take before all the other projects that are prioritised from Stortinget's page. I'm not going to start naming them, but there's a lot of genuine projects around the country that have a lot to say for that very author, for that very village and for that very part of cultural life. I must say to them all, as I have also had to say here, that we have prioritised until 2006 – unfortunately. There are no extra funds available for the post that will allow you to move projects forward in the queue. Now I answer on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and as Minister of Culture. So there are probably also some questions that I thought it was important to look at in relation to this project. If it is to be remunerated, it may be from other departments. It's very clear from my side. Secondly, it is important that we go through this carefully, because now we see that in just a few months, the entire project has doubled in price – from 10 million. kr in February to 20 mill. kr today. There should be an alarm clock in itself to call someone each when it comes to how we allow money. I'm aware of internal Finnmark's situation. I am also very aware of what is written both in the welfare message and in the long-term programme, etc. Of course, I take these remarks with me to the Government, but I can't respond on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Municipal Affairs today – and I hope it isn't expected of me either. So far we're not in the discussion, but of course we take notes from the Storting seriously. Then, in the next round, we have to come back to how this is going to work. I would like to underline what the representative Sjøli said in connection with the experience we have, among other things. with Jørundgard. Here it's important that we also think longer than the film, longer than the construction of a city, but also think in terms of operations, how we're going to get the economy for it. Here's a lot of things you have to look into before we can say yes. Making a film about the history of Kautokeino, I have a great sense of it. If we don't handle the film application here today – we don't want to deal with such an application either – there won't be any bad movies if they have to use a set of shots, if they get any support for making the film. And then we get back after the government and the state councils that might get involved in it have gone through the whole project more thoroughly than it's done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e297	I believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that in a pressed cultural budget it will be difficult to release these funds, and that there is consensus that other solutions must therefore be considered if it is not to be financed through the Ministry of Culture. However, and I think that is an important but: The Storting has already said that we should look at internal Finnland measures, where we should seek compensation for job losses. This is such an opportunity. So, under the direction of the Ministry, a group in Finnmark has been set up to look at projects. That group also has this very project. I think the Council of State is becoming too passive and too negative in its approach. Instead, she should come up with views on how to solve this alternative if you are not to take it from the Ministry of Culture's budget. That doesn't mean you have to commit here. But when there's a remark that the majority is behind, that the government is going to come back as soon as possible, there's a direct call for it to be answered. Obviously, you can't come back until summer, everyone here will understand. But you'll be able to come back at the beginning of October, you'll wear it all summer, and you'll be able to be specific in October about how to deal with this project. As far as I understand, it will be time to start in January with the film itself. That's when you want to be dependent on clarifying these answers, otherwise there will be scenes that are used. The Government must be able to respond on behalf of the Government if it is possible for the Government to give a reply to the Storting when the Storing meets again on 1 October, or in the days immediately after it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e307	I strongly reject the fact that there is passivity here in relation to the project. I have said positively that the government will come back. But I also hope that the representative understands that it is difficult for me to answer on behalf of two other government councils. No letter has been sent to other departments to challenge them in the process that has been in the cultural committee. A letter has been sent to the Ministry of Culture, and we have replied. So, of course, we take these plural remarks seriously. But it is also important that projects to be supported in the interior of Finnmark are projects that are good for the interior of Finnmark. If it turns out that this is a project that might be a strain on internal Finnmark compared to operations, then we might have done them a bear service. We also need to include this when we assess whether this is one of the best measures we can give to inner Finnmark. As a responsible minister, on behalf of the Government, it is also absolutely necessary for me to go under it in relation to the entire project. The projects going to the inner Finnland must be good for the people, they must be forward-looking, and they must be taken care of. And then we'll see if this is one of the projects that can be successful. But at least we don't have to apply inner Finnmark anything that might in the long run be difficult to bear, because then we have done them a bear service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e314	I share the opinion of the Council of State that this matter is not about yes or no to the film. I also share her view that when there is an application for such a large project, there are many things you need to examine more closely. But I'm surprised that the Council of State actually uses its speaking time to list only problems, instead of seeing the possibilities of this project. When she now answered Olav Gunnar Ballo, it sounded like this was something other than internal Finnmark has come on. There's actually a strong commitment here from the municipality of Kautokeino to getting permanent culisas, because they see the ringings that can be there. And so it is that state council not only is Haugland the Minister of Culture, she is also the leader of the Christian People's Party. And she and others from the Christian People's Party are currently sending out letters and trying to explain that they stand for offensive district policies – and I understand very well that they need them. It is in this context that she now has a unique opportunity to see that through cooperation between the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, she can strengthen culture, work for more jobs and give new optimism in the interior of Finnmark. I don't expect the Right-State Councils of the Government to be so busy with that, but I'm actually expecting the leader of the Christian People's Party to do something more than she said now.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e321	I used my speaking time to answer a challenge from Olav Gunnar Ballo. I have then tried to emphasize that I cannot today say on behalf of other government councils when the answer may lie here. I've also used my speaking time to say that I think it would be valuable to get a film about Kautokeino's history. I have also used my speaking time to say that we are not handling the film request here, but I am very positive about the project. If this project can also be a positive project for internal Finnmark, it is of course good, but it is important that the processing is so thorough that we know that it will be a positive project. Only the truth that the project has been doubled from February until today shows that there is a part that has not been answered, a part that has not been thoroughly examined, to conclude that this is a good thing for Inner Finnmark, or that it is not. Otherwise, I will not comment on the comments from Meltveit Kleppa on district policy. But I want to defend those I work with in the government, when it comes to the government's commitment to district policy. Well, I can add that to that. has been given an agricultural settlement that will also give new impetus to rural policy. Whole agriculture is very pleased with the data. I'm not going to take that debate today, nor is it a district political debate, but I'm just saying that what the government stands for also stands for the Christian People's Party and the Right – and even the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e328	It's an expression that says, where it's a will, it's also a way. When the Council of State presents it as if it is in the process of taking full account of costs, it is, I don't know if it is an unparliamentary expression, trending. I see it as trendy. What you're doing is you're trying to create a presentation like this is out of control. It's completely wrong. Tenders have been obtained. You know what it's going to be about costs, and you've got a sketch that's different from the original one, which wasn't that ambitious. You're very specific about what it's all about, and what you want. There is no deviation or development in the numbers at all. Instead of saying that we're going to look at the possibilities, that we can't give any answer now, but that we're going to see what opportunities are offered, the Council of State presents this in this room as if it's a project without economic governance. I believe that this presentation is intended to affect the assembly – and any others. I think Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa actually has a good point. The Council of State is the head of the Christian People's Party, which in Finnmark will provide a vision to create new employment in the interior of Finnland. Randi Karlstrøm in Langfjord must understand – based on the type of posts – that the way back to Stortinget is now long. It must be possible for the Council of State to expect a slightly greater commitment to solving these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e341	I've just pointed out in my post what the majority of the committee points to in their comments on economics. This, I think, is important that we look closer before we draw any conclusions, and I think that all politicians with a little sense of responsibility should agree on that. I know – from 20 million. kr in relation to 50 and 70 million. kr – that one here has a relatively small project. But money goes to anyway. Even if it's not about billions of dollars or hundreds of millions of dollars, it's important that we have governance of the economy. I think so too – if we go in for it. I would like to stress that the development of the inner Finnland is something that both the Government and – for that matter – the Christian People's Party are busy with. Therefore, it is important that we choose the right tools, and that's what we want to base when we decide whether this is a good project or not. It's the best thing for internal Finnmark that will be our starting point – just as strongly as the starting point for Ballo and Meltveit Kleppa is it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e350	This matter has been dealt with by the Culture Committee. Rightly, one asked the question whether both the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Local Affairs should have been more involved in this matter. On page 2, column two, encourages a plural, Labour Party, Christian People's Party and Right, Government to ‘come back with an appropriate assessment as soon as possible’. On the same side, the same column, is the same wording of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. This means that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, are behind this call for the Government. My simple question to the Minister of Culture is: Since this matter has been dealt with in the Committee on Culture and it is the Minister of Culture who is in charge of the Government, would it not be natural for the Council of State to respond from this Chair, following the calls it has received here, to take the initiative of cooperation, of meetings, of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and of the Ministry of Local Affairs – in order to present it to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e359	I thought I was. Of course I want to do that; it's in a plural comment. And there is no doubt about this in the answers I have given from this pulpit – actually quite many times earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e366	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2970]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e388	It's important that we have a sufficient number of atoning places so that we avoid the accumulation of people waiting to be settled for their criminal action. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the expansion of prison and reconciliation capacity to get on the offensive in what is currently a problem and creates queues. But we also want an adaptation that has the positive starting point that the framework facilitates the atoning content that results in a crime-free life after settlement. This, in the view of the Christian People's Party, is the natural, important and, at the same time, ambitious objective of the execution of the sentence that is imposed on individuals. However, we do not believe that the lack of rehabilitation is solely due to the circumstances surrounding the criminal. But we have reason to believe that much can be improved by putting the search light on what I would call "inward life" during the reconciliation and release phase. The background to this belief lies in conversations with both employees and prisoners over many years. When we dealt with the report, there was a great deal of consensus that there is a need to improve the quality of the work to make prisoners crime-free after release. At the centre of the work with the prisoners are the employees. This means that further training and training of those already employed in the Prison Service must be extended, for the employee must be in contact and must be schooled for it. To a large extent, the public’s view and perception of a prison officer has been influenced by the large chain of keys. In addition, feature films with large incidences of prisons have reinforced the image of prison management and prison officers as inhuman bullies that beat and wrestle with the prisoners. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that as well as in society, human dignity is to be respected and respected for the one under atonement. We believe that respect is an important prerequisite for dialogue and trust. Therefore, awareness of value will have to be a starting point for the contact officer’s work. I assume that this is a theme that the Prison School places on. It should also be in the context of continuing training. Does the adopted contact officer scheme work for all prisoners? I have asked this question in many prisons. As a rule, I receive a confirmatory response from the management that the scheme has been implemented and thus complies with the Storting decision. But, I go into both the form and the content of the scheme, it turns out that the quality is far back to be desired. When I take this relationship up with the prisoners, it is obvious to draw the conclusion that most places are the contact officer system introduced in the name, but not in the benefit. From the management side, it is explained that you are a minimum staff member and that you also have different programmes for the prisoners, while users themselves express scepticism for the practical exercise of the contact management system because the officer and the inmate meet so rarely. Both parties consider the scheme to be useful and forward-looking for the prisoner. The officers are sure that the scheme can make the work more meaningful and interesting. In addition, the content of the contact officer’s work is likely to make it more attractive to apply for the Prison School. My main conclusion to this is therefore that a prerequisite that must now be taken into account to contribute to the reduction of relapses in completed zones is to improve the staffing of prisons, so that the contact officer system has a framework for functioning in accordance with the intention of the Stortingen decision and with the intention of the previous Bondevik administration. It will be interesting if the Council of State can give some signals on how he will prioritise this in future budgets. There is tradition that most prison inmates in Norwegian institutions are men. But there are now also several women behind the walls. Some of these have expressed to the Judicial Committee that they consider the provision of programmes and custom-made arrangements to be better for men than for women. It would be interesting to know about Dørum's government council sharing this assessment, and whether he will in that case improve the offer of the female prisoners. A recurring question is what are the instruments that produce positive results. 'Put them on water and bread, and let them do hard physical work!' many say, and think it is good medicine against repeating crime. We do not share this view in the Christian People's Party. Feedback appears to show that there are wide variations both in relation to individuals and in terms of efficacy or lack of efficacy. Not least because of this, it will be interesting and probably necessary to continuously carry out both own research in Norwegian conditions and the collection of research results from abroad, where these may be available. The aim of this research will be to contribute to the framework, content and programmes deployed in the various prisons and institutions. This can probably also affect the way prisons and institutions are designed, established and staffed in the future. During the visit of the Judicial Committee to the Bergen prison, we were informed that work was being done on the idea and the possibility of becoming part of the University's research base. It might be interesting to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about this. It is likely that such a project will involve more departments and perhaps more research environments at the University. For the Christian People's Party, this is a plan we like to see the department engage in further positive efforts, considering that research will contribute to a more effective criminal care. I have participated in seminars in prisons on several occasions in both Skien and Bodø. For both written and oral feedback at least 90 pst. by the detainees, agree that the critical phase in view of relapses into criminal acts is release. It is almost a unison confirmation that settlement contracts and programs adapted to the individual are necessary, but without proper preparation for release and the time after this is very short to resume the criminal life. The preparation includes many elements that it leads too far to review here, but some single points I will mention. A place to live is important. Soil is necessary, and normal behavior in society must be taught for many. There is a need for help to be found in community social services, and the security of a whole new social role needs to be built up step by step. The social network is usually lacking or completely absent, with the exception of the criminal, to be avoided. Uncertainty characterizes the horizon of the finished zone in front of the release. Crime in freedom is an important tool to help the released person. But many around this institution have not worked well enough. Both the lack of resources and the lack of time for follow-up may be the cause. Here it is not my job to assess what should be corrected in relation to criminal justice in freedom. I just pointed out the answers that the prisoners give me about what they consider important to get out of a criminal lifestyle. It should be important to listen to users and, where possible, to change in accordance with the corrections provided for by the responses of users. In some prisons, there is a larger group of inmates with a different cultural background and a different religious foundation than the Christian. After discussing rehabilitation and the relationship with the ‘foreign’ prisoners, the prison priest at Ullersmo wrote to me on 7 January 2000: ‘On Ullersmo, we have worked deliberately to get an offer for the Muslim prisoners. For a long time we had regular Friday prayers at a Bosnian imam. I have worked closely with some of the Muslim prisoners. I discovered two things at this time. There was a calm over some of those who were most eager on Friday's bean. At this time, some got their legitimate religious needs met. Under both Norwegian and international law, they are entitled to meet this need, and I am glad that we, as an institution, have helped them with this. It is common for our prisoners to either minimize what they have done or blame others for what they have done. At this time I felt that some of the Muslim prisoners really went into themselves and said, "This is what we owe and we have to settle for both God and man." Some people had problems with what they had done also with their spouses and children and the contact with their home country and the family became more important to them.In the last year we have not had Friday prayer and I see two things have happened: 1st@item: inlistbox Their identity as Muslims is getting thinner.2. This is often replaced by a criminal identity in which responsibility becomes weaker and where guilt, which is one of man’s nobility marks, almost disappears.’ - So far the quote from the prison priest. His conclusion is that a prison imam should be hired on a permanent basis, so that there can be regularity in both Friday prayers, Muslim mental health care and professionally based advice on prison management on issues of Islamic practice and understanding. Will the Council of State contribute to a probationary system over a few years with permanent imam in e.g. half position to operate Ullersmo and Ila? I am sure that the Council of State is as positively set up as the undersigned for all contributions that can make prisoners crime-free after release. Along with the public equipment, there have been many years of eager individual people, communities and organisations involved in behalf of the prisoners, and I dare also to make the claim: to relieve the employees. These voluntary activities have established trust and friendships with lasting positive effects. Several of these are willing to devote even more resources to cooperation actions, such as: the promoters of the ‘New Life’ project. But as almost always is, both this and other excellent measures need financial support. However, public support triggers large voluntary amounts in the form of its own financial grants and human resources. For each of the heads we invest, we get more back! Many first-time inmates have drug problems. If they do not get help with their drug problems, they will easily become repeaters in the judicial system. I therefore allow myself to ask the Council of State to assess whether these are adequately preserved in the light of the experience with §12 zoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e442	The representative, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, asks me to give an update on the status of the content of the criminal execution in prison. Before I go through some of the concrete elements, I need a general remark. It is politically important that the objectives of criminal enforcement include both the implementation itself and the content of the settlement. Without targets on the use of rehabilitative instruments, we have a poor implementation of penalties. The criminal enforcement policy that has been widely agreed on is therefore important to follow-up in practice. In the follow-up work of criminal services, dilemmas and difficulties of priority will arise. A few years ago, when criminal services had free capacity, it became possible to spend more resources on rehabilitation. Now the queue is a fact, and the balance of resource use needs to be different by focusing on combating the queue. The work now being done by criminal services in order to close down the settlement queues is at present a top priority, and this has unfortunately led me to have to lower the level of ambition in terms of the content of the criminal execution. In St. prp. No 1 for 2001–02, the performance targets for 2002 were to maintain the number of prisoners in contact and the number of convictions with a future plan. In the case of programmes, the objective of the results was to have a cautious growth in the number of convictions involved in impact programmes. Pressing high levels of custody and several shifts between prisons also reduces the time available for prisons to work systematically with prisoners and ensure the quality of the content. Controlling the pay queue is therefore very important, yes, it is crucial to improve the framework conditions for the further development of the content of criminal enforcement. It is an important objective that all jurisdictions and custody officers should have contact officers. As part of this work, the Ministry published in 1999 detailed guidelines on the professional content and organisation of work. The guidelines describe the contact officer’s key functions, such as informing prisoners, identifying the problems of prisoners, helping prisoners to draw up a future plan and assisting in enquiries with management partners. The follow-up responsibility for professional development has now been added to the districts of criminal services and to the Education Centre of Criminal Services, KRUS. The report of the regions in 2001 suggests that around 70-80 pst. by all prisoners had a contact officer. There is also a need to strengthen the contact officer’s work on the organisation and organisation of prisons. Strengthening the work on future plans, i.e. housing plans, in prisons and free care has been a priority area in recent years. In order to ensure the quality of this work, the Ministry published in 2000 detailed guidelines for work on future planning. The future plan shall be solution-oriented and address issues such as work, education, participation in programmes and leisure activities. An important part of the work on future plans is cooperation with other agencies. There is still a need to increase both the number and the quality of these plans, in particular for prisoners with a shorter implementation period than six months. It is an objective that both women and men should be able to benefit from the services available in prisons. Both women and men receive and benefit from individual offers of contact officers and future plans. Women account for, as you know, a small percentage of all prisoners, and often have special problems related to drug abuse, assault, stigmatisation, etc. It is a challenge for prisons to meet women’s needs, but women’s prisons such as Fredrikstad and Bredtveit have developed good skills in this. In particular, the contact officer system, but also the forward-looking work, works well in these women’s prisons and in prisons with their own women’s wards, such as Skien and Bergen. Fredrikstad prison has been piloting and running its own programme for women, PROK for several years. The Women’s Programme is a awareness-raising programme that addresses issues such as relationships with partners and children, limiting, communication, etc. The diversity of programmes has been important in the development of programme activities. Some programmes have been developed in our own country, others have been taken from abroad and arranged for Norwegian conditions. From Canada, we have obtained the New Start Programme for the Prison Service and the corresponding One for the One-to-one Free Care Programme. The Ruprogrammen RIF, Rus in Prison, and My Choice, Soning in Society, are also master programmes from Canada. These programmes have been developed on the basis of extensive research into what can be assumed to change criminal behaviour. The possibilities for research collaboration between the prison in Bergen and the University of Bergen, as the representative Marthinsen mentions, are interesting. There is no doubt that there is a need for more research on the methods that may be used to prevent reoccurrence crime. The programmes developed in Norway, such as: The violence and morality groups and the Promille programme in the field of free care are so-called experience-based programmes. These programmes are based on systematised experience of what can be assumed to change criminal behaviour. For example, the violence and morality groups have been developed according to the alternative to violence model, ATV, and have been organised for the care of criminals. Several of the programmes that have been in operation for many years, with a high number of participants, have been evaluated by the Criminal Education Centre, KRUS. This applies, for example: New Start, the violence and morality groups, the Promille programme, etc. We know that very many first-time prisoners have major drug problems and could benefit from the implementation of criminal sanctions under Section 12. The State Institute for Drug Research (SIRUS) will launch a nationwide study in 2002, which will identify the extent of drug use among prisoners and the impact of criminal enforcement on drug use. In this way, we will be able to obtain more accurate figures for the prevalence of drug use in prisons and a better basis for action for this group. We do not now have our own statistics on the number of first-time prisoners who carry out the sentence in the institution according to Section 12, and I cannot therefore respond specifically to whether this is adequately enforced. However, this is an area in which, according to what I have said now in this post, I will go into, because I am concerned that this will work both systematically and in an organized way. The representative of Marthinsen has also affected it in relation to non-governmental organisations. As far as prison services are concerned, they undoubtedly have an important function, and as far as the possibilities of immunisation are concerned at Ullersmo and Ila, I am willing to look at this and will also deal with the matter with the Minister of the Church. But it is not that we can set up posts or grant money in posts in interpellation debates in Stortinget, so I get to express myself in the way I have now done. Fighting crime is not an exclusive responsibility for the justice sector. It is impossible for criminal services alone to be able to prevent future crime, because repeaters often have extensive social problems and drug problems. By cooperating with the labour market, school, care, social affairs, psychiatry, etc. It will be possible to reduce the number of repeaters and to help them improve their lives. The central administration of criminal justice and the Directorate of Labour/Aetat have recently concluded a formalised cooperation and sharing of responsibilities agreement during the critical release phase. I see this as an important part of the so-called administrative cooperation, just to prevent what we all know often happens when you get outside the walls and stand there with a plastic bag, namely that the way back to crime is too short. Developing administrative cooperation, as it is now done in relation to both the Directorate of Labour and the Aetat, is an important step towards preventing criminal reoccurrence. The importance of volunteer workers is highlighted in St.meld. No 27 for 1997-98 Networking for convictions lacking social contacts outside criminal environments is an important but very difficult challenge. Many people need good role models and social experiences with people outside the criminal environment. This must be an important target group for volunteer workers. Criminal law also cooperates with a number of organisations with humanitarian, religious, sporting, cultural or anti-drug purposes, such as the Association for the Family of Fanners, the Red Cross Visiting Service, the Salvation Army, the Church's Social Service, the Church's Bymition, the Pinsemnity, etc. These make valuable efforts through visiting services and activation measures that can strengthen the self-esteem of convictions, provide them with new skills and integrate them into new environments. It is important to continue cooperation with voluntary organisations. We want these to have an increased focus on networking and release issues and to be important support players in the planning of release. I very much appreciate the voluntary efforts made in prisons, but I also want volunteers to be more involved in the care of their clients outside the community. Let me also add that I carry out systematic visits to prisons and note that when prisons are not too large – and after international conditions we do not have large prisons in Norway – it can also be a good contact in prisons that do not have a formal and good name for what they are doing. For example, I was. Recently in the Hamar prison and experienced the staff description of the relationship with the prisoners and their description of the close relationship with the city, and where they proudly said, without actually being able to use the word contact officer or programming, that there are many out there now who are vital employees in society. So if you can find what I feel the representative is looking for, the nice intersection where those who work in prison are wise enough to also be role models and help criminals find a different behavior and at the same time play on cooperation, not only with the public but also with civil society outside, there's no doubt that we're also creating results. There are many great employees in Norwegian prisons who are doing this, and I would like to give them recognition from this pulpit. Very often it is the case in Stortinget that it is focused on the need for money or other – and so it has to be – but there are very many people who are doing a lot of work. Let them be honored and honored from this pulpit! I've even met employees who work hard to get the cells done fast enough, so they can get well-being at work and good conditions for the inmates.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e493	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. State Council Dørum underlined the importance of bringing down the settlement queues. I fully share that commitment. At the same time, I think it is appropriate to stress that there is also a link between the settlement queues and the revenants – those who are involved in taking up the seats in prisons. We must therefore also tackle rehabilitation. I think it's necessary when we work so hard to get the cows down, that we also have this in mind. I recorded that the Council of State was also positive to what went on at Bergen Fengsel and their thoughts about doing research on what kind of treatment works, and issues related to this, like the relationship between them and the University. I can assure the Council of State that the Christian People's Party also thinks this is very interesting and will actively contribute to the initiatives needed to get some meat on the bones that are now suggested, both by the employees and by the management in Bergen, but also from the political environment here now. The Council of State also mentioned what was going on at Ullersmo and Ila, and of course I have a great deal of understanding that you can't assign posts from Stortinget's pulpit. There's no tradition of that, and that's not the law to do that either, I think. However, I would like to stress once again that it is important to have this function in relation to the relationships that this prison priest pointed out. In addition, it is important to have a more orderly relationship with a permanent imam employee, which can contribute to the creation of trust and communication between the Muslim prisoners and the prison leadership. I think it's also about understanding each other, quite simply. In the case of volunteers, it has also not been possible to prevent us from recording uncertainties related to the distribution of funds put at the disposal, among others. Of heading 70 under heading 70. 430 in the budget. When the uncertainty affects activities that have a long-term nature — such as: The prison mission of Pinsevenne – it creates problems. In my opinion, therefore, the Council of State might want to establish a few simple guidelines on how to involve voluntary and private initiatives in criminal matters, so that it is not always just about ad hoc approaches in relation to volunteers. It would be positive both for the volunteers – I think – and for the prison system as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e506	First of all, for the sake of order, I have declared myself incapacitated in allocating funds to Item 70, because I am employed in and have leave from the Church's Bymission. I intend to put an end to the leave and employment in the near future, so that I am not incapacitated by future treatment. But let me say on that point that I have heard the views of the representative Marthinsen. When it comes to the question of imam, I actually intend to go into that matter. I have on my plans a visit to Ullersmo in the near future, just as I have plans to visit Kongswinger and Vardåsen. I note that there are joyous things happening on a cross-political basis and with a broad commitment. And let me say, let's make that the transition. It goes without saying that when we have a reconciliation queue that is like it is – you give priority to putting people in custody, then put in those who have long judges, who are members of gangs, and also violent ones – it goes without saying that it often leads to relocations. When those movements take place, it is factually quite problematic to focus on the relations of the contact officers. There is no doubt that getting the pay queue under control is therefore absolutely crucial to bringing up the quality of the compensation, which was the content of the representative's interpellation to me. Therefore, the government has promoted the matter that lies in Stortinget, about Vardåsen, and which I have found that the efforts of many good forces seem to be a solution. The box is a unique opportunity to do something about the short-term reconciliation queue. It's my hope to get up a number of places that could mean something, during the fall, and the Vardåsen will be able to give us 110 seats at work until the next summer alone. It's like monks, and then you can get away with what's absolutely necessary, that's stability in order to sort these priority groups. Then you will also get a much better focus on what is the representative's concern. But there's no reason to hide that when we have this queue and we have the priorities that are marked in different size contexts, it often becomes a complicated puzzle to make it go up, and then you don't get stable relationships. That's what I tried to talk directly and openly about in my post. I would therefore like to say that we must get this under control, and the key is to get the reconciliation queue under control. Getting it under control has top priority, but it works on what's up to the representative Marthinsen, to have two thoughts in his head at the same time: get away from the reconciliation queue and get up the quality. When it comes to research, I'm really, really, because every time a Council of State decides on research, it can be seen as if you're responding to an application, and I don't think so either. I want to be very careful to say that I think that the representative has raised interesting thoughts. In order not to be interpreted beyond that, I have shown the experience-based and experience-based research that has been done. I am particularly interested in this Section 12 question that the representative raised, and I want to go into it and follow it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e517	For its part, the President wishes to state that there is no prohibition on making promises from the Parliament's pulpit in inter-pelling debates; it is simply a ban on making proposals. I guess the problem is that it's always hard to keep the promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e520	This is an interesting and important debate, but the interpellation, and to the extent that the answers that have come are a strange exercise. The problem with criminal services is that we are now facing a very serious long line situation, and that is a long line, and there is no reason to believe that this is an ad hoc situation. We have, as the interpellant has also pointed out, a type of settlement in which the content – or “internal life” to use his own language suit – fails. That's why I think it's both sad and reasonable to hear the Minister of Justice of the United Kingdom saying that it has now been decided to lower the level of ambition in terms of the implementation of penalties, to get rid of the queue and then to raise the quality. It's a very bad solution. It's probably so that we won't get away from the queue if we don't get the quality up. The representative, Marthinsen, was also saying that one of the main challenges in terms of reducing the pressure on the pay queue is that we get a better effect out of the payroll, so that people get out of the circulation. That's why I'm going to challenge the Minister of Justice to take a spin on whether it really is the way to lower the level of ambition in relation to quality. The reality is that you've reduced the level of ambition in relation to this. We see that from the budgetary decisions. This is where the role of the interpellant should be clarified. Because when he is now seagoing, both the question of contact officers and whether compensation plans – as the interpellant says is ‘introduced into the name, but not in the benefit’ – and talking about preventing repeaters by better preparation of the release phase and involving voluntary forces, and also pointing to the drug problems of first-time inmates, there is reason to say that these are problems that are not solved by the fact that we are now almost tightening up, and it also does not contribute to increased resources in relation to criminal care. This is not free. That's what you don't drop until there's no money out in criminal custody. The pressure to get more physical spaces wins through. There is reason to ask not only about the thoughts of the Council of State, as the interpellant does, but about where it is made by the Christian People's Party's own thoughts, and to the extent that it's own input, when the funds are to be distributed. It is in such a light representative Marthinen's interpellation can hardly be worth the paper it is written on. When we adopt the budgets of the Grand Duchy, it is tax-free to the richest that may come first, and not increase funds for the justice sector. It is against this background that the Labour Party in the State budget for this year, as well as in the revised national budget, chooses to place its increased effort on this sector in relation to the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e531	This was an interesting interpellation debate until the representative Storberget began to incite cheap rhetoric about taxation and throw out one claim after another without coverage in reality at all. I guess no one in this room disagrees with the fact that the biggest challenge in criminal matters right now is to get more settlements. The representative Storberget also has that opinion, I think. This is why the Government has proposed to establish a prison in Vardåsen clay, which is why we have launched new projects to deal with the settlement queues. But it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The challenge raised by the representative Marthinsen is also important for the settlement queues. If we manage to give the prisoners an offer that will make them ready to go back to society and act as law-abiding citizens, of course, the problems of cows will be a mere story. Unfortunately, it is a major problem that Norwegian prisons are largely filled with repeaters. Prison inmates are a major social problem and show that there is still much to be gained in terms of rehabilitation. I agree with Mr Marthinsen that the contact officer system is important. I think it is necessary to wait for the results of the scheme, but at the same time it is important to gather experience from the various prisons, so that we can better identify the measures and approaches that produce results. This is why, among other things: the thoughts that were launched in Bergen prison, interesting. Research on prisons and housing conditions could help to identify the measures and rehabilitation facilities that actually work. As for the return to society, I will also put in a good word for the many volunteers and organisations working on this. Environmental change is an important key to a successful return to society. Volunteers, together with the public institutions themselves, both play an important role in this, while complementing each other. I've been in the family, culture and administration committee for four years, and I've seen the well-being of non-governmental organizations that make a big effort. Many of these can be very effective in criminal matters by small means. I think we have to admit that there has been too little focus on what volunteers can do, and I want to work to give these more opportunities to do a job for the prisoners. It has to be concluded that these organisations live in uncertainty if they are allocated funds half a year. Predictability is important in order to keep the exposure and the willingness to take action. We need a criminal code that delivers, a criminal code that helps to reduce reoccurrence crime. A stay in a shelter is important for society that needs protection, but it is also important for the prisoners. The goal must be to give them positive values and ballast to get out of a criminal racetrack. It will benefit the prisoner, and it will benefit society. Therefore, the contents of the deposit must be focused. We need experience data on what works and what doesn't work. Only then can we put in the right measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e546	The aim and content of a settlement is to prevent recurrences, but in some cases also to keep vancriminals out of circulation to commit new crimes. I understand interpellantly that the issue applies to a large extent where it is possible to prevent recurrences by introducing appropriate measures. It is obvious that getting people out of a criminal racetrack is important, both for the person involved and for society as such. In view of this, it is important to have a functioning offer, especially in relation to aggression testing and intoxication. Here it will also be a lot to pick up. At the same time, I know that a good deal is being done in these areas. I find it interesting that the Christian People's Party believes that it is a permanent imam to save the prisoners in Norwegian prisons. Freedom of faith is important, even in prisons, but that Christian People's Party will have permanent employment of imams appears to be something strange. There are probably several religious denominations among prisoners in Norwegian prisons, which I then assume is that the Christian People's Party also wants to hire representatives from. An assessment that should be important, especially at the end of custody, must be whether or not reoccurrence is likely. Here it will be essential to see whether the offer has given the necessary effect. If the offer has not been made, the person must not only be held back, but of course the offer must also be changed in the light of experience. This is when continuous evaluation and quality assurance are important. If you want to ensure the necessary quality, you will be right about a professional environment that can contribute in a good way. Similarly, there will be a need to have a professional basis for further developing the offers, so that one can help as much as possible out of a criminal career. It might be an advantage to link this to a good research environment, and I understand that especially the prison in Bergen has been able to imagine contributing in this context. It might also be possible to assess whether the University of Bergen would be a suitable partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e557	Today’s interpellation deals with one of the most important issues of criminal law: facilitating the absence of criminal lawbreakers. Nevertheless, I wonder about the purpose behind and especially the timing of today's interpellation, in the light of the government's presented revised national budget and the budgetary agreement with the Progress Party. Among other things, I can't find a penny for Alternatives to Violence, which we and the Government know are struggling financially, but on which we are totally dependent to deal with the problems of violent male prisoners. Revisedly, some new prison sites are proposed in Trondheim and Kongswinger, but nothing to operate the other prisons, and we know that new prison officers cost money. Today there are 2,500 people in line for their punishments, and we know that there is a need for more skilled people in very many of our prisons. Among other things at the Hof prison in Westfold, it is clearly said that they could have 18 more prisoners at any time if they had received more money for operation. It would have been 6,570 more paydays per day. years. It could have done a solid cut in the queue of people who have received short judges, who are also in line, and for them it's not so much about the content of the short term of reconciliation, but actually about getting settled and getting on in a non-criminal life. Norwegian Prison Service Association also claims that as many as 307 prisoners are misplaced and should enter psychiatric wards or drug institutions, and at least not be in prison. As has been said before today, there has been far too little research into what is being done by programmes of all kinds, the contact management system, contracts for drug-freedom, schooling and other activities taking place inside the walls of prison. What effect does this have on the prisoners, and what results do we get? I know, like many of the others who have spoken today, that the prison in Bergen would like to take on the task of becoming a ‘university prison’, in order to get started with more necessary research in this area. The most important thing for the prisoner, for his family and for society must be that when the settlement is over, the prisoner should come out and remain outside the walls as a working and socialist human being, and not have a relapse. Unfortunately, we record that women are following men's behaviour and becoming offenders more often now than before. At the same time, fortunately, they are still a small group of prisoners. The feedback we received includes: in Bredtveit, there is little focus on the problems of female prisoners, and there are very little special programs for them. In addition, they pointed out that they have too little opportunity to be with their children and their families.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e572	The representative of Greece stressed the importance and importance of volunteering in this context, and I think it was also right to underline it, and I appreciated it being pointed out again. However, I was very surprised at the contributions of the Labour Party to this matter, at the terms used on an occasion like this, where positive proposals can be made and positive comments made. For example, the representative Storberget said: that the interpellation was not worth the paper it was written on, and wondered where it became of the Christian People's Party's thoughts about this. Yes, they were expressed in the post, they – if the representative listened to it, and he obviously had to, because he quoted a part from it. But maybe he didn't understand. When the representative Rui says that what you need is more money, it wouldn't fall for me to say that that's not right. But at least that money did not provide the Workers' Party for when they were in power. And who has been most responsible for the situation we have today? But I don't think such an interpellation debate is the right opportunity to owe each other. This should be forward-looking, this should be about what we're going to do now and in the time that's coming, and not what's been done. Then we have to be positive about what's available, and I've allowed myself through this interpellation to point to some of these very things, and I think that by joining in on this, we'll get a better situation in the future. I have also been in negotiations with the Labour Party when we were in government last time, and it was not for the Criminal Service the Labour Party asked for more money, it was for other areas. I can assure you that, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we have made it clear that it is important to strengthen the budgets in relation to criminal matters, but we are in a situation where we have too little to do everything, and then we must give priority. The Council of State has now stated – and has been endorsed by the Committee – that work is being done in relation to increasing the capacity to pay. I have also asked the Council of State to have another thought in my head at the same time, and he has also clearly stated in his intervention from this pulpit that he is able to do so, and I have never doubted it. Summary: I look forward to the cooperation that we can have in the future to get a criminal code that is getting better for the prisoners and the employees and for the benefit of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e586	First of all, a little general reflection: the President suggested that it was free to make a promise from the Parliament's pulpit. Now the president and I have it in common that we've both been/are big-time representatives and state councils, so we know what can follow the promise if you don't keep it. That's not a long way off. So I'm trying to stick to the style that I think I've been practicing for a while now, that I'm distributing what I can distribute when I have it. But I'm actually taking seriously what was said by the representative Marthinsen. I think we'll see it so that when there's a dilemma, as I described, it's okay that that dilemma is on the table. I'm going to repeat what I said in my post: When we have a huge capacity utilisation in Norwegian prisons and settlement institutions and we have to move on to people – it's custody and different other reconciliations – it's, of course, demanding and, in many ways, difficult to keep up the pressure on a criminal enforcement policy that keeps all the ideals in place. That's just the way it is, and that's why it's important to increase the number of settlements. But it is actually one element in combating the cows that are absolutely crucial, and it is that in Norway we have a structure with not too large institutions. The fact that we, for example, in the Canton of Var, an institution that will shortly be placed in 110 places – it will receive about 100. 80 places after a time - located within the Norwegian structure. Keeping this structure also increases the possibility, through the nature of the institution. Then I gave an example from a small institution that I've visited, namely, Hamar, to see how people, because they burn for their job and are busy with it, find practical solutions and talk about it in an all right and constructive way. I'm going to look into all these situations, and of course I'm going to include what's defined here as the two thoughts, into my work of finding all the openings and opportunities that lie within the criminal care system, which are within the commitment I have as the Council of State constitutionally and in relation to any future budgetary work. When it comes to what the representative Rui said about Alternatives to Violence, I would say it's a great move. We made an effort here earlier this year to secure the measure at a performance from different departments. I am fully aware that it is valuable, but we have had to prioritise as we have done within the budgetary framework. We must bear that in mind, also in the proposal that is now in the Grand Duchy in connection with the revised national budget. As far as the institution in Hof is concerned, I have been informed that it is mandatory to drive with full coating this year, and I must take note of that. That's how it should be, and that's how it should be. I don't think anything else about big business representatives, regardless of party, but when they raise a case, they raise the case because they're burning for it. I'm going to treat all the representatives, no matter what lot they have, as if they have a sincere and honest commitment when they raise a case to me as the Council of State. There is a game rule I have not intended to deviate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e601	The examination of case No. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e607	The cancellation goes to voting on the matters listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e612	With regard to the proposal in case No. One, we'll vote against. The motion for a resolution on file No. 2 – and here I come with a call to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – on the OECD objective, and it is a goal that the Stortinget has previously adopted. We believe the same thing now as before, and of course we will vote in favour of the proposal. With regard to the proposal in case No. 3, we see it as a detailed management of the Government. We don't need that. I would therefore ask the representatives to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e621	The President shall try to raise the vote in such a way that everyone is given the opportunity to vote as they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e628	Votes on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 21 May 2002 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 44):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e650	Votes on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 21 May 2002 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 44):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e666	Votes on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 21 May 2002 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 44):]] The President has perceived that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e686	During the debate, Mr Gunnar Ballo put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2003 State Budget, to allocate funds to the Kautokeino population 1852 in cooperation with other actors and within a total cost framework of 20 million. kroner, so that a permanent settlement can be built similar to the one in Kautokeino in 1852.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e708	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-07.ana.ud2119e722	There is no record.
