ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e51	Four permit applications are available: From 16 May to 22 May to take part in the celebration of the 30th anniversary of the Solgården in Spain from the Workers' Party Group on welfare permits for the representative Sigrun Eng Thursday 16 May from the representatives Søren Fredrik Voie and Aud Gaundal on leave from 21 May to 23 May – both to attend the 13th EUREKA Interparliamentary Conference in Athens On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the Province of Buskerud: Martin Kolberg For the Province of Nordland: May-Anne Brand For the State of Telemark: Board André HoksrudFor the county of Nord-Trøndelag: Jon Olav Alstad3. Martin Kolberg is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Sigrun Eng.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e99	Martin Kolberg and Bård André Hoksrud are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e107	Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e123	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e134	Today we will complete a work that has been waiting for a while. We must complete the treatment of St.meld. No 44 for 2000-2001 on the rescue helicopter service. Fortunately, I see that there are a lot of people present in the hall, and I have also noticed that there are a lot of people in the gallery. It does mean that this is a message that people are concerned about and care about. I think that this message has deserved it, because it is a historically important matter we are dealing with. The rescue service started around 1970 and was initially run by civilians, and then taken over by the Defense in the early 1970s. It's a comprehensive message. It takes care of preparedness, it takes care of response times, it takes care of base structure, not least, and it takes operator responsibility, thus affecting many people and creating a strong commitment. This has also led to – let us say – a certain amount of activity between the Justice Committee and the Defence Committee, so that both have been committed to upholding their domains at the same time as the case was carried out. The same is true of the departments. Of course, both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice have also been engaged to ensure that their pieces are preserved. And not least, the 330-square environment has been clear to see, and they have, to the best of their ability, taken care of the profession they have. The same has happened from many civil environments outside that have contacted us in the committee by writing and in other ways, and have had some idea of what they seem to be doing. The Committee's concern is the quality of the service. The quality of the service has been overall, and personally I believe that the final result indicates that solutions have been developed that provide a qualitatively significantly better service than the one we have had. Of the things you've been looking at, a change in preparedness. It is such that the Committee has opted for an upgrade to 100 pst. readiness on all bases with the exception of Svalbard. The reason for excluding Svalbard is that, among other things: I was at Svalbard and I spoke to the new Svalbard Council, the elected people, and with the employment man up there, we were told that they believe they have a good and functional system today that meets their needs. In this context, the Committee has found that we accept that we continue to run on 90 pst. Stand by. One of the main elements of the message is the response time ratio, which is now changing from 1 hour to 15 minutes. The time factor is the primary and often crucial factor when it comes to saving lives. It now changes to 15 minutes, and that is at my discretion, and probably at the committee's discretion, one of the most important changes that lies in the proposal we are dealing with here. The new helicopters will also make it possible to cover larger areas and will be able to cover the area that the message outlined as desirable. One of the issues in which there have been major discussions concerns the base pattern and the operator pattern. The base pattern is now based on Svalbard, Bodø, Ørland, Sola, Rygge and the North West. In the case of the North-West, the Progress Party Group has been committed to localising the new North-West base to Vigra. We justify that we believe that the best thing is to station the helicopter there for reasons of the proximity of the hospital in Ålesund, and not least the experience you have in driving from there. With this, I address our minority proposal on the location of the base in the North West. The majority have gone in for Florø, and they think that overall it gives a better solution. That's what's in the majority position. As far as Finnmark is concerned, it is well where there has been the greatest discussion. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, have said that they want to consider setting up a new rescue base located at Hammerfest. What is also quite clear is that today's base on Banak must be operated until it is clear whether a new base should be built, if any. There's no doubt about it, and there's no reason to doubt about it. The minority, consisting of the Workers' Party and SV, have said that they want to maintain the organisation that is at Banak. They have justified this, inter alia: that they consider it to be the most functional and that it ensures the best possible protection of the community. What has been the primary concern of the majority is that local assessments should not go ahead of what is most important for the service. So the majority have said that we want to move the base out to Hammerfest in the first place, because of the input we've got. As far as Svalbard is concerned, the Committee has also said that a more explicit accounting is needed for the relationship between the Employment and SAR tasks. It's included in the notation, and we're assuming it will be made clear below. The same applies to training time, which is essential for maintaining the quality of service. That's why you have to be like this. In the case of medical personnel, there is another majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, who have said that the doctor must be part of the crew on board, part of the crew. I personally think that is also a qualitative increase of which there is respect. At the same time, the majority have made it possible for the doctor to carry out medical work if it does not reduce the response time. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have here wanted to continue today's order. In terms of requirements for new helicopters, they will be one of the great promises that come. It is clear that new helicopters will lower the maintenance costs, they will have equipment that does not have any part of today’s helicopter fleet at all, thus significantly improving its quality. They'll go faster, they'll have de-icing, they'll have Night Vision Goggles, they'll be qualitatively significantly better than the ones we have. The Committee agrees mainly here, with the exception of one point. The majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, have said that the civil helicopters should be able to take up to 25 people in distress. The working party and SV have said that you are going for what is in the message, and that 20 is an acceptable number. In addition, the Committee has agreed to establish a User Forum to ensure the wide range of interest to those who are the users of this service. What's important to get this functional is that you have a good system of functionality in the ministry. The Committee's concern is to clarify the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, and it is clear from its observations. You have to have one department that coordinates and guarantees that this is going to be good. It has been made visible through the examination within the Committee, and it is clarified that the Ministry of Justice should have exclusive control over this. As far as operator responsibility is concerned, it is well where there has been the greatest disagreement. The conclusion of what lies ahead is that the majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, are in favour of the 330 Quadron – the Defense – still having the operator's responsibility in Bodø, Ørland, Sola, Rygge and Banak until a possible new base is established in Hammerfest. This leads us to want to compete – according to rescue professional criteria – the base of Svalbard, which is currently competitive and works well after feedback we have received, the base of the North-West, which is likely to end in Florø, and the possible future base of Hammerfest. As far as the outsourcing of competition is concerned, there has been a debate on questions relating to the qualities of the defence. The committee has not. The majority of the Committee has concluded that it makes sense to have a competitive aspect in this area as well. The primary will be the quality of service regardless of who the operator is. And we trust that the civil operators in Norway – in our opinion – can do a job as good as the Defense. So we think you'll get a dynamic between two different operators that will give you an optimal service. And that the 330 squadron has quality is raised above any doubt. They've done the job since the beginning of the 1970s, and they're going to continue to be the main supplier. No one has asked any questions. As far as the economy is concerned, it is clear that this raising of the standard means that it will be more expensive. We assume that the Department and the Government are moving inwards. Because that's how quality costs. What you're going to do now is have a full review of the service, where, as I said, you change and thus increase your preparedness. One reduces the response time and makes it possible to save more. That is the overall objective of the rescue services. Competition is exposed to a part of it, which, in the majority's opinion, is likely to provide a better economy and, hopefully, a better economy. The new helicopters will, of course, also be involved in raising the quality, and not least, as I said, the doctor's position. The most important thing is that the Storting in the work on this message will now show that we appreciate those who work along the coast, on oil installations and on boats. That's the quality of the security network we're creating that we're going to decide today. We now have the opportunity to show that we take the responsibility and value the job that those who travel and work along the coast do – and we do that by joining the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e182	The representative Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e187	The party of progress points out that their party is the party of the people most. But who are these people? At least there are no people in Lakselv, in Porsangs or in Finnmark. The majority of the Progress Party Committee will now move the rescue helicopter service from those most in need in East Finland. Finnmark is the only county that doesn't have an air ambulance. In addition, they depend most on a rescue helicopter because the weather conditions can be very rough, and the distances we know are big. Finnmark wants this base in Banak. Even Statoil, the main operator of the Snow White Extension, says they're satisfied with the base in Banak, and they won't be involved in financing a rescue helicopter base in Hammerfest. That means that the base in Banak has both availability and quality as it operates today. What, then, does the representative Ellingen mean by saying that you want to lift the service by privatising it? And why exactly should the Finnmarks be designated as test cloths for the privatisation assets of the Advance Party and Government Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e192	I take inward the recording from the representative Pedersen and I think it's interesting when she defines who needs the most. So that's how we focus on who needs the most. We have taken in the recordings from the Maritime Association and from the fisheries organisations, which have clearly expressed a desire and a need to have this rescue service as close to the sea as possible. It's been priority number. 1 for us. Of course, we register at the same time that the municipality of Porsanger has had concerns about major changes and that it has affected jobs up there. Unfortunately, municipal needs cannot go beyond the needs of the rescue services, and we have assessed that proximity to the sea areas is clearly ahead of caring for local needs in Porsangs. When it comes to lifting the service, I certainly believe that it will be lifted in total. The revised criteria contained in the notification will improve the service qualitatively. This applies both to the 330 square/defence as an operator and to the civil operators, who have to comply with exactly the same quality requirements. I don't see the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e199	It is such that the Advance Party is characterized by the Right and Christian People's Party in this matter of having a doctor on the base. They also write in their comments that they see that there are socio-economic problems in imposing base guards on doctors. Then I ask the following question: Is it not important that the doctors used for such assignments have continuous work on e.g. hospital, and then in the context of emergency preparedness, in order to be as fully equipped as possible for the mission of the rescue helicopter service? Of course, it can often be very difficult, and then you need the competence of doctors from emergency care, including emergency care. in hospitals. And will not their own competences be strengthened by having had and actively serving in a hospital? Does not the Progress Party see that it will be better socio-economic, and especially in today's situation, where there is a shortage of doctors in Norwegian hospitals, that the doctors we have are used where they are most needed to treat as many patients as possible, and are not taken out of operational service to the rear of a rescue helicopter base? I would also like to end by asking: Will this measure help to reduce the lack of a doctor in Norway? The most important thing for the bases is that they have doctors available, and that they are ready to move out quickly. I would like answers and comments on the questions asked to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e206	I thank you for an interesting challenge from the representative of Dybevig. First of all, I have to be allowed to say that I think he has not read our whole comment, because otherwise he would have seemed better than to ask his question no. 1st@item: inlistbox But I'll do it quite simply for him. I'll refer to what's the essence of it. What's written about the medical staff is that of course we want the doctors to be part of the crew. At the same time, if the representative had cared to read the rest, it says that the doctor should be able to do other medical and health work if it does not reduce the response time. For us, this means that the doctor should be able to perform parts of a medical function even if he has a base guard. That's the main thing. Otherwise, I think this is strange, because I thought that the Right was a party that was concerned with the health care of most people. But obviously they can't be, because the Right will have a two-part offer, where those who work off the coast will have a lower level of medical coverage than those who are on the mainland. We're taking a great distance from that. We don't want to be involved in anything like this at all. Another thing that the representative takes lightly is the situation when you get an alarm. The helicopter will pull out, and then the question will be, Do we have time to wait for the doctor or not? What if crewet has to go out without a doctor and the one you were going to rock, dies because you didn't have time to wait for the doctor? Who gets the answer? At my discretion, it'll be the operator, because you didn't have time to wait for the doctor. We want to avoid that. We're going to have quality of service, and the doctor is going to be part of the service and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e213	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, did not understand the problem. On the other hand, Avisa Nordland and the other newspapers coming from the areas from which the representative Ellingen sails. I believe that the representative of Ellingsen should know about the extreme weather conditions in the north. One of the experiments on which the Progress Party has now got the government parties is to move the helicopter base in Finnmark from Banak to Hammerfest and to put the operator on a new base, if any. They do this without taking into account the professional arguments for not doing so. Instead, ideological principles must take precedence. And it is believed here that if commercial interests are distorted by the fact that the defense is performing tasks, then the defense will no longer be allowed to perform those tasks. That's what I think is special, and I also think it's a betrayal of the people in the northern regions, especially in Finnmark, who are exposed to extreme weather conditions, and where quality can be crucial for people's survival or not. I wonder what professional arguments the Progress Party is putting forward here to defend this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e220	The representative of the SV shall be in favour of his involvement with people in the northern regions. I really appreciate that. But at the same time, I think he is forgetting an important detail. If Finnmark is so vulnerable, why don't you mention Svalbard? Why do you ignore Svalbard? My reverential claim is that the climatic conditions at Svalbard are probably as tough as in Finnmark. So you actually have a civil operator that the people who live up there are happy with, and do a good job, cf. They elected the people up there and the Employment Man. With respect to reporting, I have to say that I think the representative from SV has a total record bomb in his production of what is the point here. So, with regard to the outsourcing of competition and the concern about it, there are a lot of people in this country who travel with civil helicopters on a daily basis, for example. to and from the oil installations in the North Sea. I refuse to believe that they feel that they are playing their lives every time they leave. That's not how it is. It will be the pilot of the respective helicopter who determines whether the weather conditions are such that you can go out or not. Of course, this will also be the case – and is – with the defence machines. When it's not worth flying, you can't fly. The same is true of the civilians. I do not see that there is any problem with what the representative from SV here addresses. I believe that it is well covered by the comments in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e228	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e231	For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to state that if one or more people are in distress after their shipwreck, have gone astray in the mountains, fell out of the mountains or in any other way have been injured and need to be rescued, then they shall have the right to be rescued by the very best expertise in the field of rescue. We know the 330s Quadron holds this expertise. We also know what this service currently costs the Norwegian community in total per. years, but we do not want the work of saving people in distress to be left to private actors as much as possible, nor is it the 330s Quadron of Defence to be responsible for building up the competence of their potential competitors. For us, this is a value question, part of a security network that the Norwegian people are entitled to, and can trust. But this case clearly shows us that what is a value question for some, is not for others – a matter the father of the Value Commission, Prime Minister Bondevik, should study. But there are possible values no longer so important to the Christian People's Party. Government is now so important, no matter what or who gets hurt. For the Workers' Party, it is important that from the 1970s, the best possible use of society's resources has been made of the very well-chosen and trained personnel in the 330s quadron to perform rescue missions when necessary. At the same time, they do the work the Defense requires of them, when necessary. In this way, socio-economically two flies have been turned into a taste, and a good job has been done on several teams, for mutual benefit and joy. This good and socio-economic way of doing these tasks thinks we should continue. That is why we believe in the Workers' Party that it should continue to be the Defence that will be the main operator of the rescue services in Norway. The defense today has neither enough people nor enough helicopters to operate the new base in Florø, unfortunately. But we believe that the new base can be tendered until the defense gets in place enough qualified people and new helicopters to take over this base as well. The Svalbard Treaty limits the defence's ability to be an operator up there. We in the Workers' Party are also concerned with continuing the unit helicopter tank, which we believe is very rational. By having one type of helicopters, there will be one training for all maintenance technicians, which is very important, for inventories and spare parts. All the different ratings to serve the different technical installations may in practice operate on all bases and in all helicopters. They can also land on the sea, on the coastguards and on the frigates when necessary when that time comes. We are therefore concerned that the options entered into on the purchase of helicopters are maintained. I am very pleased that a majority of the committee is in favour of a 24-hour continuous attendance watch arrangement for all the crew needed for a rescue operation. That the doctor can make the right diagnosis quickly and do what needs to be done as quickly as possible, will undoubtedly save lives in the future as well. In addition, it will release other resources in hospitals when the injured are fully diagnosed and almost ready to be placed on the operating table, if necessary. In such situations, time use plays a major role. It could mean the difference between life and death, permanent disability or life without the moon. For those who do not become e.g. disabled people, the Norwegian health care system saves a considerable amount of money, not to mention all the human suffering that is avoided. On the other hand, we are not very pleased that a majority in the form of a comment is in favour of putting the rescue helicopter service in Finnmark on track. We believe it is the county that absolutely needs the best qualified to do it at times very demanding jobs that the rescue operations can be on the Finnmark coast and on the Finnmark coast. That is why we believe in the Workers' Party that privatisation will be a waste of the lives of the population in Norway's most hostile counties. Finally, I would like to address the minority's proposal in the position on the maintenance and continuation of the rescue helicopter base at Banak.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e248	The representative has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e253	The Stoltenberg Government, a year ago, on 11 May 2001, issued a communication to the Stortinget on the rescue helicopter service, recommending that a civil operator be established in the North-West. The Stoltenberg Government further writes that they should have one civil rescue helicopter and that cooperation with offshore-based helicopters should be established. So now the Workers' Party is going against what the party's own government did a year ago – they are going against what they agreed to today a year ago. In addition, the Minister of Defence said in a reply to the Stortinget that it makes sense for the bases of the North West and Svalbard to be put out to competition. Nevertheless, the Labour Party chooses to run a different policy than they did a year ago and than the Minister of Defence and Defence himself recommends. What has happened in relation to this in the Labour Party in that year, and why not follow the policy that you yourself recommended a year ago? Why not follow up on the defence's own appeal to the Stortinget that civilians should operate in the North-West?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e262	We're aware that Dybevig and the rest of the Right are very concerned that it's right, and that they prefer, privatisation. We see that in Finnmark. The working party sees that it is necessary to use tenders in the North-West because the defense does not have the opportunity to take that job yet. But we are busy having the best professional environment possible when it comes to saving people! We believe that the defense has it, and that in the long run you will get the helicopter and the professionals enough to take that job. That our own government last year said you had to have a bidding round and use civilian helicopters in the North West, that's the same thing we're saying now. But they left out the last round. We have now taken a full step: we believe that in the long term it will still be the Defense who will have this task.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e271	Much of the debate will of course be about ideology. It is also the basis of my question. It is interesting to hear the comments of the Labour Party representative and the way she describes the professionalism of the service today. What's also interesting is what's in St.meld. No 44, on page 52. I'm going to take the freedom short to quote something that goes on what the defense should and should not – and this is therefore delivered by a labor party government to the Stortinget: ‘The defence should not provide assistance to civil society where the tasks can equally be solved by voluntary or commercial actors or where this could distort commercial interests.’ So that's what the workers' party government said for approx. a year ago. Today the justice fraction of the Workers' Party says no, the defense should have the whole package, and they should even have Svalbard. Was it so bad what the Stoltenberg government did, that you have to take such a strong distance from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e285	First, I have to be allowed to arrest the representative Ellingen. We didn't say we should have the Defense at Svalbard. I said in my post that the Svalbard Treaty puts an end to the defence being on Svalbard. That's why I have to arrest him. Ideologically, it is very good to note that the Progress Party is completely different from the Labour Party. This is how we feel that we are on a safe footing. We say the defense will do the defense's work, but if they can do other societal work, we want them to do it. So it doesn't cost any more money. As for what is stated in the message, that the defense does not need to do civil work, we will say that no, of course the defense does not have to do civil work everywhere, but within the rescue service, it is actually socio-economic and professionally good use of human resources, to help other people who are in need of help!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e292	It's interesting to hear the representative Rui describe that in the north you want the most qualitatively best offer, if you talk about the relationship between military and civil, while at the same time the Workers' Party is in favour of using a civil operator in the North West. Does this mean that the Workers' Party believes we can have a lower quality rescue system in the North West than in the rest of the country? Are you in favour of a system that says that what is to be taken into account and taken care of in the North West is not as important as what is to be taken into account in the North? Could that be the thought behind it? I doubt, but need an explanation as to why it's all right with civil one place, but not another, if it's about quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e297	And so a representative from the Christian People's Party asks us in the Workers' Party about – the Christian People's Party, which exposes the Finnish mark for what they intend to expose them to in the future. No, we say, it's not that we want to expose the Westerners to anything worse than the Finnish mark, but there's a difference between the weather conditions in Finnmark and the West. In addition, we say that in the long term, when we get enough helicopters and enough people, the defense will have operator responsibility in the West, and then everyone will have equal opportunities and equal help. It's one of our ideological positions in the Workers' Party that all people should have equal help. In the Christian People's Party, and now the government parties, it seems that only half of Norway should have equal help, and at least not those who have the worst weather conditions, in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e302	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e305	The size of the population is currently being addressed by the organisation of rescue helicopter services in Norway. The message will lead to a promise of an already good service — a service where employees appear to be saving angels for those who have come up in a life-threatening situation. The rescue preparedness shall be improved and the response time reduced. This will result in an even better rescue service, to the joy of all those who travel to land and to water. It is therefore gratifying that a unanimous committee agrees on the main point in the communication, the need for 100 p.m. Stand by. There is also agreement on the need for a new base on the North-West, where a clear majority land on Florø. Furthermore, an overall committee takes a very positive view of the proposal to reduce the response time to 15 minutes, not least on the grounds that the time factor is very often critical for whether a person survives or not. In practice, this change involves the establishment of a 24-hour bystander on the bases. This measure is the most important of all the changes proposed in the notification. The Committee also endorses the proposal in its Communication on the scope and flight time requirements. New life-saving helicopters will be able to fly faster and have a much greater reach than today’s helicopters. This too is a significant improvement. The new helicopters will thus provide a very good coverage of the sea area to be covered. In the light of the debate that has taken place since the Committee was set up, I would like to stress that the question of basic patterns of rescue helicopter service and the question of operator has been addressed very carefully both by the Fostervoll Committee and in the Storing Communication. The Fostervoll selection had in its setting four alternatives to base patterns. These options were also set in order of priority. I will briefly refer to the main options of the Fostervoll Committee. Option 1: The rescue helicopters Svalbard, Bodø, Ørland and Sola are retained. New rescue helicopters are established in Hammerfest, Florø and Rygge/Torp. That was the first priority. Option 2: The rescue helicopters Svalbard, Bodø and Ørland are retained. New rescue helicopters are established in Hammerfest, Bergen and Kjevik. In addition, a rescue helicopter is stationed in Ekofisk. Option 3 is identical to option 2, but excluding full-scale rescue helicopters in Ekofisk. Option 4: Svalbard, Banak, Bodø, Orland, Sun and Back. These are the four main options for the Fostervoll Committee. The governments of Stoltenberg and Bondevik II chose to follow the Fostervoll Committee on most points, and a majority of the hearing bodies support Option 1 of the Forstervoll Committee. The Judicial Committee unanimously states that the 330 quadron shall be the main operator of the future rescue service. The 330s quadron does a job of which it stands respect, they possess the highest competence and have been shown for many years as missing and accident-causing angels. There is also a broad consensus that the base in Bodø, in Ørland, Sola and Rygge should be the 330-square-dron's responsibility. With regard to the future base in Florø, the Stoltenberg government called for this to be put on hold according to rescue professional criteria. Mr Bondevik II followed this up, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights endorses this. As regards the base of Svalbard, this shall continue to be put off for competition. Then the base remains in Finnmark. This is a matter that has aroused significant commitment, to say it cautiously. The Fostervoll Committee would add the base to Hammerfest, while the governments of Stoltenberg and Bondevik II have concluded that Banak should still be the location. In the light of the many recordings and hearings we have had, the majority of the government asks for further consideration of this issue before reaching a final conclusion. We also state that the 330 squadron should continue to be an operator on Banak. The majority further point out that in the event of possible – and I stress if necessary – relocation to Hammerfest, this must be done in a co-financing with private actors. Of course, when the majority wishes to further assess this issue, it is linked to the fact that a large number of the hearing bodies initially supported a move to Hammerfest. But at the same time we're familiar with that 80 pst. of the rescue operations in Finnmark are carried out over land and not over sea. In addition, there is an important additional dimension that must be given weight in the assessment to be made: the role of defence. The questions relating to the Defence will be addressed by our husband in the Defence Committee Åge Konradsen in a later article. So the right-hand side means we have to see things in context. The rescue helicopter service is a civil task performed by a military operator. The fact that the 330 Quadron has important functions in relation to the Defence must also be given weight in the further assessment, an assessment that, in the Right’s view, needs to be carried out relatively quickly so that we can find peace in the rescue service in Finnmark. I will also point out the strong commitment it has been in this matter. The interpretation of the majority view of the Committee has been very imaginative. What we want is an assessment of Banak and Hammerfest. For the Right, we won't draw any final conclusions until we have this review on the table. But if you see and listen to the recordings that have been made, I would like to stress that Banak as a location is strongly in the Right. With regard to the location in the North-West, Florø and Vigra have been identified as two almost equivalent candidates. When we have fallen on Florø, this is due to the setting of the Fostervoll Committee and the Storing Message: After professional assessments, it is believed that Florø will be the optimal place to locate a new base. Then helicopter choice. I would like to stress strongly that this must be left to professionals. This is why the majority is in favour of setting up a helicopter professional forum, which, by the end of 2003, is presenting a case to the Stortinget where the final position is on the helicopter type. Some have also tried to give the majority an opinion that it should not be possible to choose the defence unit helicopters with the notes that exist. Here there must be conscious misunderstandings going out and going. The majority subscribe to the requirements specified in the message. In addition, we say that new civil rescue helicopters should have a capacity of 25 emergency sites. This is something that should be assessed by the Helicopters Forum in respect of the helicopters to operate from the civil bases. The unit helicopters have many advantages, they can operate from the bases and land on coastguard ships and frigates, thus considerably extending the operating radius. In addition, they have military equipment that provides even better operational capability in bad weather. One thing is certain: the Sea King helicopters have done a great job, but the retirement age is approaching, and by 2008, these must be phased out. The response time shall be enhanced and the response time shall be reduced from 60 to 15 minutes. The majority, all except the government parties, also believe that a doctor as a permanent member of the team should be included. The same majority themselves say that questions can be asked in the socio-economic assessment of the imposition of a base guard but nevertheless finds that the doctor should be a fixed member of the team. This combined with a 24-hour continuous base guard becomes, in the opinion of the government parties, an expensive solution, a solution that also binds large medical resources. The solution will cost at least 12 million. extra kr per year. Of course, it is desirable that the rescue helicopters have optimal working conditions, but we also need to pay attention to the fact that the response time goes down to 15 minutes, which could lead patients to hospital more quickly. The Government also states in the Communication that practical solutions need to be found at individual bases in the field of medical preparedness. On a case-by-case basis, the main rescue centres will have to assess whether there is a need for a doctor or not. The conclusion is that the solutions should be at least as good as today and that the response time is falling sharply. There is broad consensus among the hearing bodies that the Ministry of Justice should continue to have the rescue professional responsibility for the rescue helicopter service, in addition to the budgetary responsibilities of the squadron 330, operated by the Defence. The Committee is aware of the economic challenges that follow the qualitative upgrade of the rescue services, but considers that these must be seen in the context of the possibility of assisting and saving more people than is the case today. We agree with the assessment in the notification that the 330-square of the Defence shall be the main operator of the future rescue helicopter service. The Committee is also concerned that the Ministry of Justice should be allocated financial and technical resources so that the task of having overall responsibility can be fulfilled, and asks the Government to take this into account. The expenditure of the defence relating to the individual rescue helicopters must also be made visible. The Committee thus agrees with the assessment that the overall responsibility for the rescue services is now being brought together in one department. We believe that it will help to give a more comprehensive focus to the service, and that one avoids unfortunate conflicts of interest. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, also argues that the Ministry of Justice must have a mandate to assess how they are to implement the measures instructed by the Stortinget, because there must be consistency between the overall responsibility imposed and the scope of action given to the Ministry in carrying out the task. Finally, with regard to the two proposals that have been put forward, I would like to start by calling on the governments to vote against them. However, with regard to the Banak proposal, I would like to ask the Workers' Party and SV to turn this into a transmission proposal, as this will be an important premise in the assessment that is now to be carried out in favour of the majority. We can hardly vote in favour of this proposal, as this takes the conclusion of the further assessment in advance. I also ask that the government parties be given the opportunity to vote against II, which concerns the day-to-day attendance of a doctor. I have explained this in the past. With this, I hope that we now get a rescue helicopter service that can continue the amazing work that is being done today, and that can evolve to the best of those in need, whether on the sea or on land. I believe that the basis that is now attached to a new base, and by bringing down the response time, is the best starting point for an even better service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e373	The representative of Greece refers to the Defence Rescue Service in a very positive layer of order by using the term ‘savior angels’. But what is the answer he gives this service, which has done so immensely good work? Well, he's giving them the answer that they're not good enough, and parts of the service are going to be privatized. In the debate we experience that the High Representative Trond Helleland is also trying to fire-extinguish and make his proposal harmless. He says they should consider, he says they have not yet decided, that they will take a decision later. And in the media in Finnmark, Trond Helleland, as he does today, has stood out as a strong defender of the 330s quadron. The problem is that today's setting gives Helleland green light to move the base to Hammerfest and privatize it. What is that really right meaning? I'm left with the impression of a party trying to ride two horses at the same time. But then they either trickle the alliance partner Progress Party or the population of Finnmark. People in Finland deserve a clear answer today. The rescue service and people's lives and health are too important for us, after today's debate, not to know what is future for the rescue service in Finnmark. Finnmark people deserve better. This can be resolved both by the Right and the Christian People's Party by voting in favour of the proposal for the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e382	It is obviously unpleasant for the representative Gjul that I am referring to the 330-square in rosy order. I don't see any reason not to do that. We support the fact that the 330 Quadron will continue to operate the bases on the Sola, on Ørland, in Bodø, on Rygge, and we will assess Banak. What is the problem in this case is that someone is actually not willing to listen to what is being said. I had a clear impression that the line was written in good time before I kept my post. I gave an explanation of vote in which we ask the Workers' Party and SV to turn this into a transmission proposal, so that we can evaluate Banak, as the Government intends to do. We have not drawn any conclusions. It is true that we want to assess Hammerfest, but it has been a well-known case from the moment the rescue helicopter was rescued. It has been said that in the position of the Fostervoll Committee, there have been different assessments that have been made, and I think it is quite natural that one, when there is some doubt about a matter, makes an assessment. And then we've gotten a number of arguments from the defense lately. They've come a long way in terms of Halkavarre's shooting range, in terms of military preparedness in North Norway. The commander-in-chief there says that for the defence, it is important that Banak be maintained. Yes, that's right, it's clear that it's important for the defense, but the rescue helicopter service is also a civil service. So that's the assessment we're asking the government to make, because there are two considerations that need to be weighed up against each other, two considerations that can go in the same direction, but that in some cases can also go in each other's direction. That is why we believe it is natural for an assessment to be made. If the Workers' Party doesn't like to make a further assessment, we have to live with it, but that's what the Right is. We haven't finally concluded, but I say that in the case of Banak, a lot of good arguments have come up, which means that at least in the right we can't sign, as some people have tried to make it, that we want to move the base. We've never said that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e389	It would have been tempting to jump on the previous speaker, but I guess not. What I'm going to focus on is the economic situation in the Kingdom of Norway. It is interesting to hear the head of the committee Helleland describing the economy in relation to having a doctor as a fixed part of the crew – a description from a person who comes from a party that has the finance minister in a country where our money-holding would make Uncle Screw envious if it was compared to his. Then it becomes a paradox for me that you are sitting here and you are sorry and you are going to take $12 million. kr in the additional costs of medical coverage. So that's $12 million. kr it costs Right to participate in providing them along the coast with a medical service that is qualitatively on the level of what they have in mainland Norway. You can't afford that. The Transport Economics Institute had an estimate of what a human life was valued for if we lost it in an accident. I don't know if you can connect it directly to this, but if I don't remember correctly, and take an average of what TØI came to, the amount is slightly above what it costs with all year running here to have the doctor as a fixed part of the crew. But the government party does not have the right advice. It means, in other words, that the Right is not willing to bet on these funds. Had a mountain been one life a year by having a doctor as a regular crew, this money had been earned, and not least in view of the suffering suffered by the families affected. So here it's 12 million. kr. I may have to end by asking the representative of Greece about something, and then I'll ask him if it's the economy in the country that says you can't afford it, or if you don't appreciate people more, literally.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e394	No, it's not the economy of the country that's the main problem here. The main problem here is that we have a shortage of doctors in Norway. It was so that the majority, now in favour of medical personnel, long thought that it should also be anaesthetic at all times at the bases. Then we have a problem. In addition, the same majority as Ellingsen is part of, that there's doubt that the socio-economic is wise to do this. In that case, I think that the representative himself has given the answer, namely that we have to make an overall assessment here. We actually need a good medical staff on land, too, linked to the hospitals. We say that we want to continue the system that is today, that when there is a need for it, when the Head Rescue Center sees that there is a need for it, it becomes a doctor. The response time will then be balanced, but such a base pattern is now, for most bases it will be possible to make a rapid outreach and have a rapid response time. So I don't want to say that this is purely an economic issue, but it's probably so much a priority of society's resources -- what's the trick? If you had the optimal situation that there were enough doctors to do everything in this country, we would of course have been able to agree to this proposal. But I also refer to the letter from the Ministry of Health, which strongly warns against such a solution based on the resource situation in the healthcare system, and then I am talking primarily about human resources. Then it should not be underestimated that what is contained in this message actually involves some costs. For example, it will. That's $56 million. kr to facilitate a 24-hour bystander on the bases, resulting in increased operating costs of 45 million. kr, and implementation will give a cost of approx. One hundred million. kr first year of operation. This is the starting point of the notification, and then the demands made by the majority come in addition. So it's not a cheap solution, but it's a good solution. I'm very happy about that, because it's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e401	I seem to hear that the representative of Greece is now clarifying that the Right has not decided on the question about Banak/Hammerfest. I would like to quote from the majority's comment on page 10 of the vote: The ‘majority’ – to which Greece belongs – ‘will ask the Government to give operational responsibility to the 330 Quadron on the following bases: Bodø, Örland, Sola and Rygge, and Banak until any new base is established’. And on the other hand, ‘The majority believe that the following bases should be subject to rescue professional criteria: Svalbard, Florø and, where appropriate, the future base of Hammerfest.’ Then I have to ask Greece: is it Right's view that Banak will be phased out if it is possible to establish a private base in Hammerfest? There has been a process in defense for a few years now to find a helicopter that could be used for several tasks in defense. It has resulted in a helicopter intended to be used both on the new frigates, as shoreguard helicopters and as rescue helicopters. The idea behind this is to create a wider environment of competence for training, operation and repairs. The helicopter selected, NH 90, is not intended for civil sale, and the whole issue raises a number of questions. I want to ask Greece, where were you when the process around this helicopter took place, and why do you now want to reduce the synergies that lie in a helicopter and competence environment that can be used for many defence tasks, including rescue services? Is the right now set to reduce the defence budget in line with the fact that the defence mission is now being reduced in this area, including by purchasing fewer helicopters for the defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e420	There's some sort of black-and-white thinking in some here in the hall, because when we want to make an assessment of a possible new base in Hammerfest, or a possible continuation in Banak, that's exactly what it is, an assessment, and I've explained that in my post. Then we'll hear what the Minister of Justice says later, and how he's perceived this, and then we'll see how the case progresses further. The right has never said that the base should be moved to Hammerfest. We've said we should have an assessment. I don't know how many times I have to repeat it. That means that we spend a little longer time making a decision in this area, and when that decision is to be made, I expect the Stortinget to have a full opportunity to take that particular matter again. When it comes to the issue of unit helicopters, I have actually spent a little time in my post on it. I said that unit helicopters are very suitable. They can walk from the base, they can land on a coastguard ship, they can land on a frigate and they can get refills there. So they can get a much larger operating range, and they have a larger operating radius. I have even seen the new rescue helicopter on Kjeller, and it was an impressive sight. I think in many ways that the defense through the option they have on 10 helicopters has done something crazy. Of course they do. And we don't want to say that unit helicopters are not going to be used, but we say that a helicopter professional forum is going to do this assessment by the end of 2003. It is closely related to one thing: the option to buy the new unit helicopters expires on 1 March 2004. So you should be out in good time to get that assessment. Then you see what's the wise choice. I think unit helicopters will be a good solution, but I'm not a helicopter expert, even though you're starting to get a little bit of a bearing on this process, which has been very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e431	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e434	As a fresh representative on the Stortinget and in many ways a green colliding, with the background of Vestfold – a state that does not exactly have extreme nature as its trademark – it was with a certain humility that I grasped this big message. From not knowing what the rescue helicopter service is, I have understood that the mission that the 330-squaredron has carried out for 30 years is nothing anyone can take on, and at least that is not something we should leave to commercial interests in what I believe is a naive belief that competitive outsourcing almost automatically raises the quality of any service. The quality and presence of the rescue helicopter service is a matter of life or death for many people in this country. Then I believe it is totally irresponsible to gamble with this offer by leaving parts of it to private operators who are primarily going to make their money, and who are likely to have to save on the expenses by cutting off any of the 330-squares brand, namely training. SV is not willing to gamble with the rescue helicopter service. And we think it's very strange that the government here has let itself be lured into something we just think is gambling, by a party that targets the privatisation and competitive outsourcing ideology more than anyone else, namely the Progress Party. Not least, I think it is special that the Christian People's Party has agreed to this. I understand from the media that the Right does not have insignificant problems with this position within its own party, and with the desire to move the rescue helicopter base in Finnmark from Porsanger to Hammerfest, but it worries me less than what the consequences of these decisions will be for the people concerned. I would like to give some examples of why SV believes the 330-square is still going to be the operator of the rescue helicopter service in the future. The first is training and quality assurance. Air defence operates a continuous follow-up and quality assurance of crews. The second is economies of scale. If the helicopters at one base become incapacitated, 330 may transfer helicopters from one base to another. In addition, parts can be transported from one base to another. Even F-16 has been used for this. The third is military rules. Military aircraft are subject to military air traffic rules. This includes, inter alia: military aircraft may operate under much more difficult conditions than civil, inter alia: because exemptions from the legislation are easier to obtain. In addition, there are elements such as stability and continuity, which are crucial for a qualitatively good service, the characteristic of local knowledge of topography and terrain, the development of procedures, training, experience, training, etc. A private operator who can actually risk going bankrupt is something quite different from an air defence service financed by the State, even though for example: The progress party will probably claim that the defence has gone bankrupt a long time ago. So some words about Banak. I think it's quite amazing that the majority, represented by the government parties and the Progress Party, want to move the rescue helicopter base from Banak to Hammerfest. First, this will make the western part of Finnmark states vulnerable. Country missions are likely to be harmful. Secondly, new helicopters will fly much faster than today's Sea King helicopters and thus reach the coast of Finnmark twice as fast as today. In addition, when de-icing equipment will be included, there will no longer be any problems with the exit from Banak, while much indicates that the problems of facilitating a possible move to Hammerfest will become significant due to the weather conditions there. Do we really want to take the chance of making this service worse for the Finnland people, just because commercial considerations are not to be distorted by the defence's activities, to quote the majority? Finally, I would like to point out an important change that is now taking place, because the SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have secured a majority for it, namely that the doctor will be included as a permanent part of the helicopter crew, where the doctor will have a base guard in line with the other crew. We believe this will increase the chance of saving lives in the future, and therefore we have concluded that this is the most responsible. With this, I would like to ask the majority constellation of the government parties and the Progress Party to think again. The debate itself has created a significant sense of uncertainty in the districts. They had earned a big one that was able to give them the opposite, that's a sense of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e454	In this setting, SV wants to appear as the best friend in the defense. SV will even expand the defence capabilities. Does this mean a line break where SV will now bet more on the Defence? One perhaps so important issue is that the defence helicopters should be equipped for war operations. Only weapons to be loaded on board before they are finished. Does the SV and the representative of Thorkildsen see any problem in using the Defence and Defence's contentious material so actively against the civilian population in peacetime?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e460	For SV, this matter is about saving lives. That means that when the defense is the best to save people's lives, it's the defense to do that job. We have taken a pragmatic position on this matter. We've looked into whether it's the Defence or the civil operators who will be best able to ensure the continuity, quality and training of personnel, and also who has the best equipment to save as much human life as possible. We're not going to go in to expand a defense like the Progress Party wants. But we want to use the Defense for social service, and we also think it's rational and more efficient to use the Defense when it's there, and not build up alternative services to do the same tasks, just worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e465	It is very nice to note that SV now has a good love relationship with the Norwegian defense. We have waited in the right for a very long time, that SV should have a positive relationship with the Norwegian defence and what they can offer. The same is true of the Right. The defence offers great competence in the rescue work and is a very important operator on the bases on which they are currently based. There will be almost a criminalisation of other rescue service operators that SV is trying to do here. They call it gambling with the rescue helicopter service, luring out gambling, and that outsourcing is gambling. This is almost a criminalisation of private actors, and I don't like it much. It is that the quality of the service to be provided will be equivalent to the quality offered by the Defence. That is the requirement set by the Stortinget to this service, as the notice also states. Of course, we should also expect the training and quality assurance provided by the Defence Agency to have private operators. The competence of the defence is precisely because they have such a long experience, but we do not say that other actors can also have the same competence. This will be an advantage for the rescue work in total for the whole of Norway. Then the question is, how can SV accept a civil operator in the North West? So even though they are so strong in the use of words against civil operators, they can now accept that the North West has a civil actor. In addition, there is a civil actor on Svalbard. What has the civil actor at Svalbard done that SV is deeply dissatisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e472	I am almost tempted to say that I wonder if hearing has been significantly impaired in recent years here in Stortinget. It has already been pointed out several times that civil operator responsibility, which has to remain during a transitional period in Florø, is to be a transitional period, but that both the SV and the Workers' Party want the defence to have operator responsibility here as well. Now I hope we don't have to repeat it multiple times. I believe that it is not a criminalisation, as the representative Dybevig expressed it, to say that the civil operators necessarily cannot do this as well as the Defense. It's about several things. First of all, the defence cannot go bankrupt. It is also about ensuring more good practice, and that we are in doubt when a private commercial company enters, whether they will maintain the training to the same extent as the 330s quadron has done. Because they're going to make money, they might have to cut down on something that's expensive, that's training. It's something that's been so important to maintain a high-quality rescue service. In addition, there may be new rounds of tenders and replacements. Continuity is some of the things that are extremely important. I can't see that taking a position based on these assessments is criminalizing anything. We just establish that we believe that the 330s quadron is best suited to performing the rescue missions that for the people in the districts are so enormously important.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e481	I'm almost beginning to wonder if it was in the honor of SV that the Sea King helicopter made three rounds around the Stortinget and the government quarter in the morning today. One might wonder when SV goes to those degrees in defense. I feel compelled to ask questions as to whether one believes the Christian People's Party dangers with lies. It is both downgraded in the setting and has been said repeatedly from this speaker that you want to assess the base location in Finnmark. When the representative says that we want to ‘move’, it is actually wrong. What we have said is that we want to ‘assess’. I want to ask the question whether the representative has understood it so that it is actually an assessment we want, or whether she is still in the process of saying that we should move.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e488	In that case, I believe that the representative of the Christian People's Party should make a proposal that we should consider this; not vote in favour of our proposal to keep Banak, but rather promote an alternative proposal. I notice that the Christian People's Party here is in a big deal, that this may not be so simple for the party, which is not the leading government party, but is pressed by the Progress Party, uncertainly for what reason. But it may have something to do with the budgetary procedure and the desire to secure a majority and goodwill on the part of the Progress Party. I think it's suspicious. I think this case is so important, it can be about life or death, and also about whether people are going to get hurt for the rest of their lives or whether they are actually going to get treatment quickly. That's why I think it deserved a more thorough assessment instead of jumping on a proposal that I think is highly professionally uncertain.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e495	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e498	The recommendations of the Fostervoll Committee are based on the experience gained with the rescue helicopter service over the past 25 years. On this basis, the committee has made proposals for the future rescue helicopter preparedness. I want to remind you that it's almost six years since the selection ended its work. The acquisition of new rescue helicopters in the future could open up for increased use. It will be necessary to look at the use of resources to a far greater extent than has been the case up to now. When setting up a separate helicopter service in the police, which will be dealt with later in today’s meeting, society will gradually receive a new and efficient helicopter resource that could be developed as an important complement to the rescue helicopter. When searching for missing overland, a light police helicopter will often be much better suited than today's great Sea King machines. The Ministry of Justice shall also examine the future possibilities of coordinating the rescue helicopter service with other civil helicopter resources, including those associated with the installation of the socket. The Christian People's Party refers in particular to the point in the notification that it is entering in order to provide practical solutions at the individual bases as regards response time requirements and competence requirements for medical personnel associated with rescue helicopters. The arrangements shall not be worse than they are today, without the fact that they are very impractical and increasing cost-intensive to maintain. A ‘User Council for the Rescue Helicopter Service’ shall be established with representatives of the user groups, with the aim of exchanging experience and information and making representations to the Ministry of Justice. The rescue service with Sea King helicopters is primarily provided for maritime rescue services. The range requirements will be met by the use of new and faster helicopters. A new Coast Guard vessel, ‘KV Svalbard’, shall operate from summer 2003 and have a sea-based helicopter on board. Along with the continuation of 90 pst. Preparedness for Svalbard will provide a satisfactory coverage for the entire Norwegian rescue area. There will be a significant improvement in the rescue service when the bases are set up with a daily bystander. However, we find it suspicious to use the term ‘15 minutes’ as an absolute response time. In some situations, it may take a little longer, which may lead to later illegitimate criticism. The need for assistance usually arises in bad weather. Counterwinds will also be essential for reach and rescue capacity. The Committee has focused on reducing the response time, not least on the fact that the time factor is very often critical in relation to whether or not a person survives. Today, rescue helicopters are stationed on Banak, Bodø, Ørland, Sola and Rygge, as well as on Longyearbyen. On all bases, with the exception of Longyearbyen, it's the defense with the squadron 330 that's the operator. Since the base pattern was assessed by the Fostervoll Committee, the Sea King rescue helicopter stationed at Vigra has been moved to Rygge. The work on the unit helicopter project in the Defence has come so far that a contract has been signed for the delivery of 14 new NH 90 helicopters. Six machines are earmarked for new frigates, eight for coastguard vessels. The agreement provides for an option to purchase 10 new rescue helicopters, if any. The ability of the Coast Guard to perform rescue operations increases with the introduction of ‘KV Svalbard’ and new helicopters. The unit helicopter project has tied up future choice of base structure and selection of helicopters other than NH 90. When the Christian People's Party goes in to continue the bases in Longyearbyen, Banak, Bodø, Ørland and Sola, it has its reasons in, among other things. This. As far as Banak is concerned, we will not at this point deprive ourselves of the opportunity to assess this location in connection with the development of the Snow White field. As long as the defense is an operator in the region, the Christian People's Party too believes it is right to continue the rescue helicopter base on Banak. In other words, the world goes on as before, but not into all eternity. The defence activities at Rygge are under assessment, which they have been for a long time. The defense does not currently have the resources to serve five bases with 100 pst. Stand by. This suggests that the operation of a private operator should also be considered. Coordination with regard to the private operation of a new base in the North-West can be beneficial here. With regard to the location of a new base in the North-West, I support the evaluations of the Fostervoll Committee when they recommend Florø. The majority in the Committee also agree with the reasons for this localisation of the EEAG. The Christian People's Party believes that rescue helicopters should continue to be part of a multi-use concept in the future and that search and rescue operations should continue to have priority. I consider today's solution in terms of command conditions for the helicopters both on the mainland and on Svalbard as good, and want to continue these. In the view of the Ministry of Justice, it would not be appropriate to modify the command conditions of the Svalbard life-saving helicopter. The Ministry of Justice will examine the possibilities of coordinating the rescue helicopter service with private helicopter resources and the needs that should be met by private interests themselves. The Committee points out that the rescue helicopter service is currently carrying out a number of ambulance missions, and the Committee sees the rescue helicopters as part of the overall air ambulance service. The Committee assumes that current practice in the field of ambulance flight practice is continued. The Christian People's Party supports the objective of the Ministry of Justice, in consultation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, to find practical solutions to medical preparedness. The Committee considers that it can recommend the continuation of today's regime on Svalbard, but would at the same time recommend to the Government to seek to provide Svalbard with an almost as good medical response as the other country. The members of the Committee from the Right and Christian People's Party do not find sufficient grounds for the continued presence of doctors. We recommend finding practical and sound solutions for medical preparedness at the individual bases. It may be justified to have a rational and sound emergency medical response on the rescue helicopters without having a doctor at any time. Not all search and rescue operations indicate that a doctor is necessary. In addition to the selection of new rescue helicopters, a new Helicopter Forum shall also assess the length of operational arrangements the Ministry of Justice should conclude with the Defence and Civil Operators. The Forum is also invited to consider the possibility of postponing the maintenance of the defence helicopters. The upgrade of the rescue services costs a lot of money, but this needs to be seen in the context of the possibility of assisting and saving more people than is the case today. The 330 squadron of the defence shall be the main operator of the future rescue helicopter service. The Committee is committed to providing the Ministry of Justice with financial and technical resources to discharge the task of having overall responsibility, and calls on the Government to take this into account. The Committee agrees with the assessment that the overall responsibility for the rescue services is now added to one department. The Committee believes that it will contribute to a more comprehensive focus on the service and avoid adverse conflicts of interest. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee believes that the Ministry of Justice must have a mandate to assess how they will implement the measures instructed by the Stortinget – this being because there must be consistency between the overall responsibility imposed and the scope of action given to the Ministry in carrying out the task. The competence that the 330 squadron has acquired over many years is a social resource that civil society must also be able to benefit from. Therefore, 330 squadrons are explicitly given responsibility for preparing annual training arrangements for their own and civil operators, so that the quality of the service is maintained. The implementation of the proposals in the Communication will depend on the appropriations in the next few years’ State budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e552	The size has decided that Inner Finnmark, with the Sami municipalities to which Porsanger belongs, with its very special challenges, should be prioritised, even through a separate action plan. When the Christian People's Party today, through the majority of which they are a part, actively seeks to look at the relocation of the helicopter service from Porsanger to Hammerfest, the Christian People's Party's confidence in the inner Finnmark problem cracks, especially in the light of the Secretary of Defense's clear warning that moving the aircraft station and also the garrison of Porsanger and Halkavarre shooting field come under pressure. There will be a breakdown for the Porsanger community. Can the representative of the Christian People's Party explain to me how the Christian People's Party can say yes to such a possible grip, when we know that all the trade unions have recommended Banak? Now I expect an answer other than that the Christian People's Party has today not agreed to move and privatization, but they have said yes to an assessment. Everyone in this room knows that you don't make an assessment and an investigation for the sake of the investigation, or for fun. There's a meaning behind it; there's an active purpose behind it. You have to ask, would the Christian People's Party agree to move if the investigation came to such a conclusion? And what other defence tasks does the Christian People's Party want to put out competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e563	The representative Nielsen is concerned about the views of the Christian People's Party on Inner Finnmark. I guess that's good. Once we've opened up an assessment, we're actually serious about giving it the opening. We will in no way conclude until we have seen the assessment, and I can therefore not give any answer here or now – yes or no – as the representative Nielsen asked questions. When many have concerns about the location of the defense in Banak, and that it represents a pressure if the defence activity is phased out, I fully understand it. But it must not be that, in our eagerness to preserve the defence in every form, we use all the means to achieve that goal. As long as the defense has a function, and as long as the defense also has an activity directed at the civilian population, there is in itself a justification for being there, but if the rescue service, which is a civil service, can be arranged in another way, the operation of another operator, preferably for a fairer money, we as administrators of the nation's values are obliged to assess this. That's what's behind this attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e578	Several speakers from the government parties have now strongly stressed that only an assessment of the relocation of the Banak rescue helicopter service is requested. You do not have a single word associated with a move evaluation in your configuration. On the contrary, arguments are being argued for the transfer of the service from Banak to Hammerfest. On the other hand, it is explicitly requested that an assessment be made as to whether the rescue helicopter should be able to take 25 persons. This is specifically asked for an assessment, but it is not asked for an assessment of relocation, it is argued for relocation. I'm recording that fossils are missing from this today. It's okay. However, the question remains: when the Minister for Defence has seen the need to ask for a hearing in the Defence Committee to draw attention to the consequences of this before the end of the procedure, and when the Minister for Defence strongly warns against moving and targeting helicopters that will take up 25 people, i.e. excluding the use of unit helicopters, what does it mean that we still have to ask for an assessment of this? Is there any lack of confidence in the views of the self-defence minister that leads the majority and the government parties to continue to ask for an assessment of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e585	I think it is necessary to get to the fore that there was so much fuss about the final formulations in the committee's position. At a time when the media, and otherwise everyone outside this house, should have no knowledge of what was in the committee's documents so far, it leaked information based on the rapporteur's first observations on the matter. It said, if I remember correctly, specifically that you had to move the base from Banak to Hammerfest. This is probably the direct reason why the Minister of Defence reacted and that there was also some concern in the defence's various bodies. I do not feel that the representatives of the government parties today have the promenade or the paddle. We stand firm on the product that was issued, which is the official document, and which is what we should be evaluated on the basis of. It is regrettable that parts of the Committee's work are being published and so sometimes create an almost unbearable working environment for the Committee, as it has been partly in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e594	It is in the best interest to explain this by doing such a bad job in the Committee on Legal Affairs that there are strong attempts to save faces in the subsequent proceedings, but the representative Holstad failed to answer my question. The fact that the Minister of Defence may have come to know this through the media, which is now pointed out by the representative of Holstad, is, in itself, alarming – that communication within the government fraction is so poor that the Minister of Defence must become aware of this matter in the light of a leak in the media and thus ask to be consulted in the committee. If that is what the representative now claims, it is in itself alarming. But let it go, then perhaps the government parties learn for later treatments that this should be discussed internally in order to avoid that kind of fades. When the Minister of Defence came to know this and intervened, asked to come to the Defence Committee and strongly warned in the form of letters against what is now being asked for an assessment, why was it not then possible to withdraw and adopt a position where there was no way of creating uncertainty about the future rescue service in Finnmark? It actually had time, because the setting was not given at the time, according to what Holstad's representative now says, one was in a process in the committee. So the question is, do you not trust your own defence minister? I can add another question: why did it end up in a situation where it was necessary for the members of the government parties in the committee to write a special note that goes against what the governing parties in the committee have said, which in itself is alarming?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e605	I think the communication between the government parties and between the representatives here in the house and the government members is good. What may have failed, I think I will leave to the Minister of Justice to explain when he later takes the floor. In fact, the sharp reactions relate to a completely different formulation than the one we have actually agreed on, and that exists as a majority position for treatment in today's meeting. It must be allowed to have opinions about the future, and especially when you are in an area of the country where a greater development of civil activity is expected, with references to other helicopter activity, including the defence helicopter activity. We're rich, but we're not so rich that we can run parallel races a few miles away. I'm thinking about the total resource resources. I think it's important that we give ourselves this opportunity to make this assessment. I do not fully understand the defence and the defence minister's response, given that the purpose is to continue the defense's activities within the rescue service, as we have actually said, that the defense will continue to be the main operator of the rescue service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e616	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e619	The representative Holstad concluded his answer to my reply by saying that we are rich, but not so rich that we can allow ourselves to run parallel races. That's actually exactly what this case is about. The majority of the Judicial Committee now proposes to run parallel and double. If the rescue helicopter service in Finnmark is moved from Banak to Hammerfest, it will mean that we will have to run parallel if the defence activity on Banak is to be maintained in the form and function to which the Defense itself considers necessary and to which the Storting has joined. That means that the service on Banak is weakened, it becomes a pure military service without being able to take out the synergy that lies in coordinating the service and doing double missions, where you have both the rescue service and the defence functions that Banak has to perform. This is resource depletion in a way that I am not able to understand that the right-hand side of the crest can stand behind, or that the government parties can easily be involved. Let it now be clear that for a coastal nation such as Norway, which collects large portions of its sea revenues in some form, either from the fisheries sector, from oil/gas or from other maritime activities, it is a well-functioning rescue service of general importance. Part of this country is located in the outer boundary of where it is possible to live. It's extremely hard weather in parts of the country. There are large distances, there are scattered settlements, and storms can get on quickly. Most people in this room know that. But sometimes it seems like it might be nice to remember that that's the situation we're living in. It goes without saying that the rescue helicopter service is an extremely important element in this context. The climatic conditions indicate that active, frequent training is necessary in order to control the conditions under which the rescue services are to operate. There is no doubt that putting off competition, among other things. for the purpose for which several of the speakers of the government parties have now taken the floor, namely to reduce costs, the place of training in a rescue facility will be weakened. It will go at the expense of just that part of the business. Efforts will be made to reduce use and wear and tear and hence operating costs. I have to say that the dogmatic privatisation instruments of the Right Party and the Advance Party do not know any limits when, as some have done, normal transport operations between land and oil installations are performed in the hall today. Then you operate with well-known and fixed installations, and you can not at least cancel transport operations when weather conditions indicate that you cannot go out. It cannot be done by the rescue service. It's just in extreme weather conditions that the rescue services have to go, and then you have to have the skills to do this. One must have trained under the kind of weather conditions that one must have trained to land on the Coast Guard boats in order to use it as an intermediate landing base. Then it is not good enough to fly between land and fixed installations in transport operations. With that, I am not saying that a private rescue service, a competitive rescue service, cannot become functional and work – well, keep me. So it does it in parts of the country. But here's the question of maximising the resources of the defense, by giving them the tasks under real realistic conditions that are possible to give them, instead of doubling and ending up having to have a civil service on the side of the military, where we're going to pay for both, and where the defense gets less training and gets to use its knowledge far less than what to do if you're also going to continue the rescue service. So on that basis, this should actually have been easy. The Justice Committee and the Government Parties, with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence at the head, should applaud the efforts of the 330 Quadron over all these years, giving them strengthened and improved opportunities to perform the service without providing a basis for creating any doubt as to the future of the 330 Quadron and the future of the Defence, which will be safeguarded by this important rescue service. The examination of this communication by the Stortinget and the Judicial Committee has been directly embarrassing to the government parties. The husband of the root and the lack of coordination I have not witnessed in my two periods here in Stortinget, where we now perform to give a position where the members of the defence committee in the government parties seem to have to distance themselves from the members of the justice committee in the same parties claim in their comments. It's self-inspiring.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e632	The President must tell the representative, Mr Enoksen, that the reference to the Right is not in line with parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e635	If that's the term "bracket party" in question, I have so far had the impression that it's a concept Right is proud to be associated with. But I take note that you don't think you are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e640	On 11 October 1995, the Ministry of Justice established a selection mandated by the Ministry of Justice to review the experience of the rescue helicopter service, its resources and its economy. Furthermore, the sample, named after the leader, Alv Jakob Fostervoll, County of More and Romesdal, was to consider and promote recommendations on the future rescue helicopter preparedness in Norway, where the maritime rescue service naturally has a central role. The Fostervoll Committee gave its report to the Ministry of Justice on 12 December 1996. The review took place between 26 June and 1 October 1997 at the hearing of a wide range of public and private institutions concerned. A total of 103 responses were received. The main impression of these was that there was a strong consensus that the recommendations of the sample were reasonable, relevant and necessary. One main conclusion was that the response time requirement for the rescue helicopters had to be reduced from 1 hour to 15 minutes 24 hours a day. This reduced response time to a maximum of 15 minutes should, in the view of the Coastal Party, be clarified in the decision in the suspension, but in this context it is positive that it has been proposed to continue by day with a doctor on the rescue helicopters. We fully support that. It is now almost seven years since the Fostervoll Committee was set up, and only today will the matter be dealt with. It is – to put it mildly – a scandalously long period of treatment of such an important issue for the coastal population. In fact, it can be characterised as a ‘reduction in decision-making that has cost human life’. I'm referring to the Sleipner Sea. For the Coastal Party, it is most important to ensure the most effective rescue service, which may have the shortest possible response time and can cover both our land and sea areas. To achieve this, existing resources need to be used in the most efficient way possible. The 330 squadron has operated on the rescue helicopter service in an excellent manner throughout all years. I myself live on an island and have a personal appearance with the 330-square and seen its efficiency. At the same time, in the view of the Coastal Party, the 330 Quadron has acquired skills, experience and flexibility that are invaluable in the operation of the rescue helicopter service in Norway. Therefore, it is extremely important to maintain and further develop the unique resource that the 330-square is for the Norwegian rescue service – also in the future. The Coastal Party believes that the rescue service should be primarily a public responsibility. The ability to help in an emergency must not be dependent on business considerations. The rescue helicopter service is a security factor and essential for the safest management of our important coastal areas. As regards the location of the rescue helicopters, the Coastal Party supports the proposal of the Workers' Party and the SV to maintain and continue the rescue helicopter base on Banak. It is a good example of a combination of the rescue services and the defence providing great mutual benefits and thus a better use of resources. We believe that this has been made quite clear. The Coastal Party believes that the choice of materials must be based on the provision of the most accessible material, with the necessary capacities and operational characteristics necessary in this demanding service. Therefore, the choice of material at this time should not be locked down. I am pleased that a sample is being set up that will provide an assessment during 2003. Against this background, the Coastal Party will support the Committee's recommendation and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e661	I note that the Committee is in line with the Government's recommendations in a number of areas, where, in my view, the establishment of an accomplice is the most important measure to improve the rescue helicopter preparedness. By establishing an observatory, Norway will have one of Europe’s best emergency arrangements with rescue helicopters and a good safety for all those who have their profession at sea and on land. A new base in Florø will also contribute a lot to a better safety along the coast. It is positive that the Stortinget will now gather responsibility for the entire rescue helicopter service in one department, which is basically correct. Moreover, in my view, it will provide better management of the service in the future when trade and budgetary responsibilities are brought together. The possibility of deciding a roadblock in relation to the operator's responsibility has, on the occasion, given rise to a lot of debate, a debate which, at my discretion, has been healthy and timely. In particular, the base position in Finnmark and the North-West has been discussed in detail. In addition to local interests, I believe that the connection of the defence and its own needs has been well under way for the argument behind Banak. More rescue considerations have been put in place to possibly move the base from Banak to Hammerfest. The Fostervoll range recommended moving the base from Banak to Hammerfest. I interpret the majority position of the Judicial Committee so that the Government may have time to consider the question of where the base of Finnmark should be, including whether the Defence will continue to be the operator, and that the Government will return to the Storting on this issue. An appropriate and cost-effective operation with a continental private operator could mean that a private operator should have two bases, one in addition to Florø. This may be the base of Finnmark, but other solutions may also be relevant. But here, as said, the government will come back to Stortinget at a later date. I agree with those who have said in the debate that this is a clarification that we should come back to as quickly as possible. The Committee has required the operation and capacity of new rescue helicopters. This will be properly highlighted in the further assessments on the redemption of today’s Sea King helicopters, which the Stortinget wants by 2008. In order to decide on future rescue helicopters, a clean process shall be organised, where rescue professional considerations shall be the star of command, but where the needs of society as a whole will of course be assessed. I don't understand the committee's attitude in that way that you've concluded with the helicopter type selection. I believe that there is an open assessment to be carried out in the work that follows this treatment. The majority of the Judicial Committee recommends that the Storting take decisions to establish a 24-hour presence watch with doctors on the continental rescue helicopters. Establishing the medical bases on standby will undoubtedly contribute positively to the performance of search, rescue and ambulance missions. However, the discussion has focused on whether the priority is appropriate to the alternative use of such highly sought medical resources. I would like to refer here to the note from the Ministry of Health, where, in my opinion, it is crucial to note that there are problems in recruiting a sufficient number of anesthesias. I have noticed that the majority of the committee believes, which also seems to have a majority here today, that doctors to be attached to the bases in the way they propose should also be in ordinary service. As for the establishment of this arrangement, I will return to the Storting in the ordinary budgetary processes. In the case of Svalbard, where for many years helicopters have been hired by the Employment Manager after a regular bidding round, I believe the decision to continue today's response time requirements is reasonable when looking at the volume of work and resource availability there. I have noticed that the committee has proposed to replace the Workman's helicopter no. 2 with a capacity equivalent to No 1st@item: inlistbox I clearly understand the Committee's intention and will carry out a practical review of the views expressed. The employer has, among other things: pointed out that he has a number of tasks which it will be difficult to carry out if only large machines are available. However, the Ministry of Justice and Employment have had a desire to replace helicopter No. 2 with a machine with slightly better capacity than today’s helicopter No. 2nd@item: inlistbox This is the equivalent concept in Iceland, where they have one large and one medium-sized rescue helicopter. The feedback from Iceland is that they are very satisfied with their rescue helicopter readiness. Since the Committee's views and the comments I have made here could in any case lead to not insignificant additional expenditure, I have to come back to this issue in budgetary terms too. Let me finally say that there are some questions raised that almost draw the professional and ethical rescue effort and will in the 330s quadron in doubt. There's no reason. I have experienced this squadron myself in business, and I know what it is good for. I have registered with great satisfaction that it is this unit that is still to be the mainstay of Norwegian rescue work, as the committee expresses it, whether you see it from the majority or minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e691	In this case, it is quite clear that an insider in the Bondevik administration has serious difficulties in agreeing with each other. In this case, there is also a defence minister who has been run over by his own members in the Justice Committee, by his own party. She wanted the best of the defense, which is her job. She would also do the best for Finnmarks and Nord-Troms' people. She doesn't care about her party cases in the Justice Committee. They write something, and they say something different, but it's the decisions in this room that count. And in our seats in the hall, there's a pre-button and a counter-button. There is no button to evaluate. That is why there must be a proposal, but it has not been made. It should have been set by noon. 0900, if one were to decide to evaluate. So this is where you want to vote against Banak. At least that says those who have had the word for now. Is it that way in the government that it's okay to disagree within the government just to agree with the Progress Party? And is it okay for a Minister of Justice who wants to look at himself as a man of action for people in need – at least he says it steadily and constantly – to assess whether Finnmark's population deserves to get a worse offer than the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e698	Now, a councillor should not go into a polemics, but the starting point for this matter is actually the rescue helicopter message of the Stoltenberg government, which the Bondevik II government did not draw. We chose not to do that because we would not postpone the solution for the coastal rescue helicopter situation. This means that the matter had to be resolved in Stortinget. And in that discussion, it is quite obvious that there has been a tension between some rescue professional arguments and some purely military professional arguments. It's openly presented. I have then summed up and said that I should go into it. I have also said that I will come back to that. And I note, as has been said in the debate, that I should do so as quickly as possible. For example, in the case of the Labour Party Government, it would. last year in the context of the long-term Proposition on Defence put down the Rygge Air Station and open a private solution to Torp. So you would have been sitting with two private solutions – one on Torp and one in Florø. So it's going to be very hard to understand some of the debate that's been going on in the hall in terms of the 330s quadron as a base, and then any private solutions. But I understand the intensity – of course I do – that is related to vital issues in Finnmark. I understand that, among other things. works with Finnmark questions otherwise in my work. That's why I'm taking these questions seriously, even on the basis of the special coastal challenges described by a number of representatives. My conclusion as the Council of State – and I am responsible for coming back with this – is that I should make an assessment, I should come back with the assessment, and I clarified what I think about this in the post I made.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e707	I believe that the Minister of Justice argued that these doctors should be pulled out of the healthcare system permanently and placed on a base. It's not going to happen like that. These doctors must also be in the ordinary health system, so that they can maintain their competence and be as competent as possible. When SV has assessed that these doctors should have attended the bases, it is assumed that we have talked to very competent people with a medical background who say that it is extremely important that these doctors are part of the crewet, that they receive the training that the rest of the crew gets, and that they know how to deal with dangerous and extreme situations. It also means that this is important for the safety of doctors. If they come out of a special extreme situation, it's important that the doctor also knows how to deal with these situations, and that not only the rest of the crew knows it. It's also important for the rest of the crew's safety that everyone in the helicopter knows how to deal with these situations. From an overall assessment, SV believes that the doctors should be part of the permanent crew, so that they can move out quickly and thus be involved in saving lives in the field and ensuring that people are preserved their health, and also so that they are not exposed, and that the rest of the crew should be as safe as possible. We believe that this is so professionally thought out that it is the only right thing to do. We don't want to go into a solution where you save money in the short term, but where the result can be that this will be far more expensive in the long term, because you lose human lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e716	Earlier in this debate, heavy defence and defence views have been expressed on the location in Finnmark. I have commented on it openly in my post. In terms of health professional positions, I see the Ministry of Health as a skilled source. In his letter, the Ministry of Health said – the letter was sent to the Ministry of Justice, and we forwarded it to the Committee: ‘The speciality of anaesthesiology is regarded as a low-recruitment speciality and today it is not possible to meet the need for anaesthetics in the country’s hospital.’ I see that as a fact-finding. Of course, I fully agree with Mr Thorkildsen that playing is a great advantage. I've seen it myself, among other things. in relation to the 330-square on the Sun, by talking to some of those involved in the rescue operation following the Sleipner accident both in advance and afterwards. They did a great job, there's no reason to say anything more than that. I know what that is. But one has to be practical, and one of the things I tried to do was find solutions that are related to the manning of the country's hospital and what you're trying to do on the helicopters. But, of course, I'm not arguing against the decision of the Stortinget. If the Storting decides something, I will do my utmost to deliver it. However, it cannot be that there are expert and expert arguments in one debate area, but the relevance of when the debate area suddenly changes is not recognised. I count the Ministry of Health as an unusually skilled source, and when they say that there is a lack of speciality, I take it with me. Of course, I'm going to do what I can to deliver what the Storting adds, of course. As far as possible, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e730	I am of the opinion that the representative Thorkildsen is in fact making some very well-founded arguments – not primarily for having a doctor on board absolutely all rescue missions, it is not necessarily reasonable. I myself have 20 years of experience in the ambulance service – a completely different service, but in some areas it is parallel. What I know from that service is that although in most of the contexts the ambulance service manages without a doctor, I know the importance that those people who in given situations are going to be a team in rescue missions, in ambulance services and in transport missions are all interest rates, know where to find equipment, know each other's way of handling things, and know how to do things. I believe that there should actually be considerable emphasis on that argument. Then I have a great deal of understanding that there is a lack of anaesthetics. It's just a brief fact the Ministry of Health points to. But as far as I can see – now the Centre Party is not represented in the Judicial Committee – there is nothing to say that it must necessarily be a physician with anesthesia speciality to be associated with the rescue helicopter. Of course it would be the ideal one, but a general practice will actually in certain contexts be a pretty good supplement to the manning, I think. However, as the Central Party has not been with and written this setting, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to explain precisely this page, as I cannot see that it is specifically said that you want anaesthetic.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e737	Let me take from Odd Roger Enoksen's experience as an ambulanceman, I have deep respect for that. In this town where we live, we know that ambulancemen who are not doctors do a huge job every day. They save people from overdose deaths. They're highly trained and know what to do in an emergency medical situation. So they're staff with training, they're nurses, etc. My point is not to polemise towards a position. The size decides something, and then you do what you can to follow it up. However, an emergency medical function must require emergency medical competence. Not all general practitioners have acute medical competence. I think we can see that by looking around the country. If you're only going to go after the medical skills, I just said that there's a shortage, also for the general population. It is an argument and a case information that it is my duty to submit to the Stortinget. Then I see that the combination of the committee has said that the doctors you're going to use should be in active service as much as possible, and then you're going to get them out on the helicopters. But when you go into that position, you have to know that in the worst case, you can choose solutions for others. If that happens, it's my duty to tell the Storting. It is my duty to present it in such a way that the Storting gets a chance to decide on it. But what the Stortinge decides is the direction of a Council of State. In this debate, I have also felt that the main point, first and foremost, of the representative of Thorkildsen and later of the representative of Enoxsen, is that there should be personnel with expertise who know how to act medically and that these should be included in the whole of the rescue operation. That's what I see as the reasoning. And it's clear that, in general, it's a reasonable reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e746	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e749	What characterises the rescue helicopter service and much other civil protection is that the defence has the operational resources and contributes to the infrastructure. In addition, military and civil protection are so interwoven that the interdependence almost constitutes a symbiosis. The majority of the Judicial Committee did not understand that. Apparently, they have also had no desire to acquire knowledge in this area, despite the fact that the paper actually has direct budgetary implications for defence. And when the Christian People's Party representative Holstad says in this case that the Minister of Defence called an alarm because of an early draft of the suspension, it is directly wrong – it is directly wrong. The Council of State Krohn Devold was in consultation with the Defence Committee in the light of the position of the Judicial Committee, which was then sent to the Defence Committee for consideration. The Judicial Committee had therefore given its opinion on the proposals put forward in the Committee's comments, which directly affected the defence, what the Minister for Defence and what the Defence Committee thought. When we read the Minister of Defence's answers to questions submitted by the Defence Committee, it must be allowed to ask Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum – if he is willing to listen at the back of the Chamber – if the department had made quality assurances about the position of the government parties in this house before it was released. In that case, there is no communication between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. And how is it possible for the Minister of Defence to lose such a fundamental cause in his own big business group, which is about the future of Defence and NATO in Finnmark? And why is the Minister of Defence not present in the Chamber? When the majority of the Judicial Committee wants to move the rescue helicopter service base from Banak to Hammerfest – and there are different variations of what they mean here today, I have registered – there may have dramatic consequences for the defence infrastructure in Finnmark. The stationing of the 330-square at Banak is a key prerequisite for the military operation of the air station today. According to the Minister of Defence, relocation can lead to Banak being closed down as an airport, both for civil and military purposes – it is only to read the Minister of Defence's answer. There will again have consequences for allied exercises in Finnmark. The use of the garrison in Porsanger is also largely based on access to Banak military airport. In turn, it will significantly reduce the value-added of the garrison, both for allies and for national practice. And then representatives of the government parties say when they run around the corridors here: take it easy, Banak won't be shut down. But that's when they talk to us, or with the media in North Norway. As the representative Gjul said earlier today, they are obviously trying to ride two horses at the same time – on the one hand to calm the community of Lakselv and the Finns, on the other hand to draw the Advance Party. But who are they wondering? Is it the Progress Party, or is it the Finnmark population? They should clarify their vision here today, say quite clearly what they think of Banak. Can I also mention that the squadron that is currently the operator is also part of the plans for national nuclear preparedness in the northern regions, and that testing has shown that the use of helicopters is better than the previous use of Orion aircraft. It is also quite incomprehensible that the majority of the Judicial Committee actually opens up to use helicopters that cannot use the landing platforms on coastguard vessels and on the new frigates — helicopters that otherwise have not bought for 10 years, if my information is correct. In the Defence Committee, we have noticed that the defence will not be able to operate the rescue helicopter service in the most rational way for the Defence and the communities – and for those who are the most important here, those to be rescued – in the selection of helicopters other than the NH 90. Finally, we have a message in Stortinget about the vulnerability of society. There we will just have to look at the interaction between civil protection and defence as an operator, and I invite this Minister of Justice to work together to get it done. Then he must also acknowledge that this cooperation is important for people's safety, for people's health and people's safety. It also applies to the majority of the Judicial Committee. That is also why svadron 330 must continue to be the operator of the rescue helicopter service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e768	When the public rescue service was to be organised in the late 1960s, we made a thorough assessment of the needs that existed in Norway and also how other countries had organised their service. In us — as in other countries — a number of organisations and institutions were responsible for caring for people in need. Resuscitation varied, depending on the underlying circumstances and the geographical position in which it was located. If, for example, it was found in the sea, it was partly voluntary, in part the Maritime Defense Agency or the Rescue Company that was responsible for the rescue task. Also on land there were a number of rescue organisations responsible and tasks spread across several public, semi-public and private organisations and institutions. Of course, this conglomerate of responsibility for various aspects of the rescue services led to a number of uncertainties. There were grey zones and not least problems when efforts were to be coordinated, and more had responsibilities. Therefore, the necessary grip was taken. Two main rescue centres were set up to coordinate their efforts and, in this context, rescue helicopters became central. A best-possible rescue service must be the objective of the Storting to decide on the organisation of the rescue helicopter service of the future. It is a pleasure for the Committee to conclude that there is a requirement for 100 pst. standby and bystander 24 hours and the average response time shall be reduced to 15 minutes. These are improvements that will provide citizens with security of assistance in emergency situations. Today, the 330 Quadron of Air Force operates this service from Banak, Bodø, Sola and Rygge. The attitude determines that it is the Defense and the 330 Quadrone that will be responsible for this service in the future as a whole. In this context, we must not forget that it is the 330s Quadron of Air Force that has carried out this task in a very successful way for a number of years. Employees have made a great effort every year, and there are many who, with good reason, can thank you very much for the 330s quadron. Fostervoll's report concluded that the base of Banak was to be moved to Hammerfest. The aim of this proposal seemed to be a better or faster coverage of the sea areas north of Hammerfest. Looking at the historical data from the helicopter department's mission in this area, we find that 80 pst. of the missions have been overland, not above sea level. In practice, with a location at Hammerfest, we get a poorer starting point for ambulance and rescue missions across the country. With regard to the coverage of maritime responsibilities north of Hammerfest and with Hammerfest as base, we will have faster deployment time, mainly as a result of shorter transit time. However, the sea areas of Varangerfjord and the Barents Sea will have no better coverage, and will at least have at least as good coverage, perhaps better, from Banak. The fishing grounds outside Senja, which today has the country's worst coverage of rescue helicopters, will have no improvement on its situation by a base from Hammerfest. The sea areas outside North Norway are particularly important for Norway. This importance will increase in the future. For the purpose of surveillance, control and rescue services in these areas, the Norwegian authorities have the Coast Guard, together with their helicopter carrying vessels, together with the life-saving helicopters of the 330 squadron. Ship-based Coast Guard helicopters, together with shore-based rescue helicopters, currently have rescue services as one of their most important tasks. Today, and even more in the future, there is an opportunity to increase the effectiveness of maritime defence and rescue services synergies. However, this requires combination and coordination, which has so far been possible with the Defence as an operator for both services. A civil operator of the helicopter rescue service will not be able to achieve the same degree of recovery and coordination. This is mainly due to different operating procedures and command lines. In the north, it is therefore of enormous importance that the same operator provide both services. At my discretion, the conclusion from a socio-economic point of view, with sensible resource use as its objective, must be the same. We are talking here about a social task that should not be commercialised if one cannot explain how quality can be higher and the cost to society significantly lower. The stationing of the 330-square at Banak is a significant prerequisite [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e804	As a relatively fresh Finnmark representative at Stortinget, I have followed this case with increasing interest, not only because the matter is important in itself, and because the service at Banak is under pressure, but also because the various actors in this case have demonstrated great political acrobatics. Maybe it's an exercise that's more common in Storting than most people know. Initially, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the helicopter service in Finnmark is still to be located in Banak – so far! There are clear indications from the majority of the Judicial Committee that a move to Hammerfest is being considered and, on that occasion, also a privatisation. During that period of service on Banak, the defense must operate it. Later, when the service is to be operated from Hammerfest, privatisation will take place – according to the majority of comments of the Judicial Committee. That's where the acrobatics begin. It must be timely to ask what view the right party has in this matter. Is it the chairman of the Judicial Committee, Trond Helleland of the Right, who, in his comments, has clarified the opinion of the Right on the possible move from Banak to Hammerfest, or is it the Right Group leader in the Defence Committee who is behind the Right's actual position? Is it so that it is the plain position of the Minister of Defence that Banak must be maintained, not least in the interests of the defence's other activities in Porsangs, which is what her party really means? Is that what her own party really wants? Or maybe that's just how Right's own Finnmark representative makes it, when he says to NRK Finnmark on May 3rd this year: ‘Right will keep Banak on the basis of the good experience we have with the 330-square. – Only FrP votes for movement.’ This is what the representative Robertsen said on 3 May this year. A few days later, however, the same Robertsen to the newspaper Sågat says: ‘I will vote in favour of the majority vote.’And onward: ‘It is not possible to support Banak yet.’ It is not yet possible to support Banak – is it so that the Right will support Banak later, when the base is considered moved to Hammerfest and put out for a private bidding round? Today's debate has at least not provided any clarification on this. At least the right agrees that if the base is moved, it shall be privatised. Then you can really ask whether it is privatisation for the sake of privatisation, or whether this is part of the government's new district policy, cf. the Minister of Defence's assessments of a move from Porsanger and how it will give a dramatic domino effect to all the installations and activities of the Defence Community of Porsanger. The next round of the helicopter services will affect, as it is repeated here, the air station, the airport, the garrison of Porsanger and Halkavarre shooting fields – all of this according to the Minister of Defence's response to the Defence Committee. How all this uncertainty about the helicopter service affects those who have their daily function there, we can imagine. It is clear that this uncertainty affects recruitment and affects all long-term planning. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice says that he will soon come back to the Storting to get a clarification. Today's voting will maintain the organization as it is now, but there is every reason to keep the powder dry.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e836	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e840	Marit Nybakk criticised the decision taken by the government parties in this matter, to which the decision of the Justice Committee now refers, namely that we should have the defence as the main actor in the rescue service in Norway. However, it is suggested that parts of the service are put off for competition. This applies in particular to the service in the North West, which is in Florø, and to Svalbard. We also suggest that in the future, there may be opportunities for the outsourcing of the rescue helicopter service in Finnmark. And that's a little bit of the point. The Minister of Defence says that the defence wants to put off competition, just to make defence more effective, so that the defence can use its resources more effectively than they do today. And the point is this: the Justice Committee does not want to weaken the quality of the rescue helicopter service. And just to have said it right away: today, the air ambulance is driven by private actors. There is no one in this room who has criticised the Air ambulance today, so they have emergency preparedness on land and are transporting sick people to the hospital. Not one person has said that it has been a bad solution. On the contrary, it's a very good solution, as I see it. The Judicial Committee has gone through this matter very thoroughly. We've been with the Coast Guard and the 330 Quadron in Bodø for two days, and we've had a very good review of the qualities, competence and experience of the squadron and as the Coast Guard has done. The experiences we got there, we've taken with us in the work we're doing now. In a way, the Justice Committee has total responsibility for the entire rescue service. And it's a little strange that the service provider should be the Defense, as Marit Nybakk defends. The State and the Ministry of Justice shall then request a service and that service is the rescue service in Norway. We put that service on offer in some places, and then you have doubts about the quality of the service. We have total responsibility for the rescue service, which is a civil service and not a military service. And I have to ask if Marit Nybakk has seen the changes that have occurred in Europe in the last ten years, among other things. with the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991 — and also in the context of the new technology emerging. To conclude, in any case, there is a need for a rescue service, and there is also a need for the rescue service to be as close as possible to those who will need it. We are also aware that the rescue services in Finnmark are currently being performed in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e851	There is a lot in the case of rescue helicopters that are about communication – poor communication – in the government parties. Several have affected this in a thorough way, so I'll leave that topic at this point. I've never been up in a helicopter, but I've been on the coast in a full storm, and I thought it was good to be ashore. The luxury shall not permit the rescue helicopter service. The quality of that service along our hard coast is in many cases vital for life or death, both for those to be rescued and for those to be saved. But the majority in this room will now increase the risk of disaster by putting out more rescue helicopters and through the phase in civil operators, without knowing whether they have the material and knowledge necessary to ensure good quality of service. The defense, through its operation of this 330-square service for many years, has made a very great effort to save human lives, and has at the same time been able to use knowledge and material to ensure top competence under extreme weather conditions in other areas of defence. These benefits of good rescue work will now be reduced by the Government Parties and the Advance Party in order to make an impact on the idea that the market will exist. It's a loud game, in my opinion. I record that the representatives of Greece and Holstad repeatedly say that the majority in the vote has asked for an assessment of the move and outsourcing of the Banak base to Hammerfest. I can't find this in the setting, and can't see that the Right and Christian People's Party and the rest of the majority have taken into account such an assessment of that question other than here in the hall, and that's not enough. On the other hand, the majority in the vote on page 10 is to leave to the Ministry of Justice to consider how to take the measures instructed by the Stortinge. I expect the majority in the United Kingdom to know how the specific decisions they intend to take affect the overall responsibility that is being imposed, and not to leave the assessment to the Ministry afterwards. If there is no basis for decision-making, no decision should be taken, otherwise you may risk depriving yourself of the necessary responsibility, and we would rather not do so. The majority of the Committee has agreed that the civil helicopters to be used in this service should have a capacity of 25 instead of 20, as the Defence Service has applied. The reason is that we want to be able to get everyone injured into one helicopter in the event of a major accident. This is the same as requiring all ambulances to have room for 50 on Norwegian roads, as a bus might roll over. It's not like that. Most accidents involve one injured person in the rescue helicopter operation. By setting this requirement, the defence loses the opportunity to compete in a tender situation, because they have resorted to slightly smaller helicopters and said that they can rather use more in a major accident, which is the only logical thing to report with respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e866	This should actually have been a day when we could proudly see that the Storting had given its support to an even better preparedness in the rescue helicopter service. But unfortunately it is rather a day when we can say that the population along the coast, and especially in Finland, must live decades to come in uncertainty about the future of the rescue helicopter service. That the privatizer was strong in the Right, we have known, but that the eagerness was so strong that they were willing to experiment with life and health, I had not in my wildest fantasies dreamed of. In addition, it is decided to do this experiment in the most vulnerable part of the country that has been decidated. Extreme weather conditions and great distances make people in Finland more dependent on the rescue service than you are anywhere else in the country. In contrast to us who live farther south, they also have no alternative air ambulance service. Until now, I have not heard one single factual argument for privatising the world's best rescue service. What is it really that makes the government parties lay a long way for the Progress Party in this matter? On the other hand, I've got a lot of good arguments to keep the 330-square drone on Banak. Right-wing Defence Minister Kristin Krohn Devold, in a letter to the Committee, has strongly warned against shutting down Banak, and she has great counter-representation to the majority position, which includes her own party. During my nine years in Stortinget, I have never experienced that a party has brought such a humiliating defeat on its own government council. The representative of Greece, in the debate today, has sparingly tried to make his proposal harmless. But the problem is that the same Greece in the setting of the committee has given green light to move the base to Hammerfest and thus privatize it. You're not investigating a proposal just for politeness, if you don't mean anything about it. I'm left with the impression of a party trying to ride two horses at the same time. What has happened, which means that you want to send people out in Finmark for years of uncertainty? It is not a proposal that the Minister of Justice has ordered his people to go for.It is not an idea that Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold has launched. On the contrary, she has strongly warned against this by letter to the committee. There's nothing right-wing local politicians in Finland are burning for. On the contrary, the Right rapporteur in Porsanger has threatened to resign. People in Finland deserve the answer to be clarified today. But instead of having this clarified, the Right chooses to use the partisan whip and make sure that none of the representatives from North Norway are allowed to vote in line with their own convictions and for what they are asked to do in the whole of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e893	The government of Stoltenberg will be presenting a crash report on the rescue helicopter service in May last year. The case was not drawn during the proceedings of the previous Stortinget, but was now brought forward by the Judicial Committee. It's positive. A selection led by former Count Fostervoll presented in 1997 proposals for a substantial improvement of the rescue helicopter service. Proposals were made to strengthen preparedness, shorten the response time and establish a 24-hour watch for the helicopter personnel on the bases. The government of Stoltenberg mainly endorsed the assessments submitted by the Fostervoll selection. It is very positive that this case is being clarified in Stortinget today. We thus lay the basis for increased security in our country. Not least, it will benefit those who travel at sea. In recent years we have witnessed a number of tragic accidents involving the deaths of fishermen. In particular, the professionals who have caught the most weathery fish banks have been delayed. We also know that crossings of the most dangerous seas are likely to put life at risk. Of course, rescue helicopters cannot remove the danger by fishing in weather-hard areas or sailing along our dangerous coast. But I am overconfident that a well-functioning and modern provision of rescue helicopters will greatly reduce the risk of tragic accidents. Therefore, the position of the majority of the Judicial Committee at this point is very positive for the seafarers. Outside the coast of the West, especially outside Sogn and Fjordane, there are the largest and most important occurrences of Norwegian oil and gas. The installations include many workers who have a demanding working environment and who have been offered an effective rescue service. Those who work in the supply service have the same need for security. The previous government and the majority of the Judicial Committee are in favour of the new North-West rescue helicopter base being placed in Florø. There is a safe and effective choice. It will strengthen the security of fishermen, seafarers and oil workers. The recommendation has strong professional support. The case of the rescue helicopter service has been under assessment for many years. It is now nine years since I first attended and discussed the matter with Mr Faremo, Minister of Justice. There have been many outposts and many shifts. Today I am happy that the matter is brought to an end, and I want to say it this way: it was a happy choice. There is a disembarkation in the Committee on who is responsible for the operation of rescue helicopters, including: in Florø. In my opinion, the defence should be the operator, by virtue of competence and good continuity. In any case, I would like to point out that the same person who becomes a rescue helicopter operator must be immediately put into operation and operated with the maximum emphasis on security for those who are to be users of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e916	Today the rescue helicopters are added to Longyearbyen, Banak, Bodø, Ørland, Sola and Rygge. The Committee proposes to continue the established bases in Longyearbyen, Bodø, Ørland, Sola and Rygge. It is very good, and it is good that Stortinget now takes a final position on several of the issues raised in 1997. I am particularly pleased that the rescue helicopter service at the Sun is being maintained in the sense of today and is not being privatized, for which the Progress Party has expressed its wish. That base has the same value as Banak. One might wonder what would have happened – when we see that civil helicopter technicians are on strike – if the Progress Party had got its way in privatisation. Today’s approach affects a life’s nerve for those involved — access to healthcare in the future of the population in our outlying regions. The rescue helicopter performs, in addition to its primary duties, ambulance duties. When doubts are raised about the availability and future of such a service, it is no wonder that these people ask questions about whether the majority in this room understand the consequences of their decisions. Nor is it strange that the same people ask questions about whether the same majority have ever experienced what it is like not to have a hospital nearby. For this matter, a shining example of what the various parties consider in practice to be equal health services for all in Norway. The rescue helicopters represent security — immediate efforts to save people from death or damage as a result of acute accident situations. Not least, rescue services include marine rescue operations. Everyone living in this country is entitled to a similar rescue helicopter and air ambulance offer. This is, of course, a major challenge, but it is a strong objective. The people who have their job at sea, and those who live in the districts, are totally dependent on a rescue helicopter service that works. The turn of the government parties in this matter is also a chapter for themselves, but I will not go into that any further. I hope the majority realize that there is no shame in turning!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e931	In this case of the future rescue helicopter service, there has been a very one-sided focus on the location. The proposed improvements, such as: a reduction in preparedness time from 60 to 15 minutes, and better coordination will give the country’s citizens a safer everyday life. And that's what this case is about. Having said that, there is no doubt that some wording in the case has created a debate, especially in Finnmark. When I'm going to support the majority position today, I do so in the sense that this can't be interpreted in any way as ending the rescue helicopter base on Banak. The proposal will further assess the rescue helicopter service with regard to the outsourcing of competition and, of course, this assessment must be made in relation to all other bases in Norway. In such an assessment I am determined that Banak as a military base has little to fear. The benefits of this organisation for Finnmark and Nord-Troms have not diminished over the years. As a finnmarking, I have to admit that the 330-squadron on Banak has unshakable confidence in the inhabitants of the county – and they are the ones who are always on the sea outside the Finnmark coast. The base on Banak can withstand any assessment. I can hardly imagine so many unexpected conclusions. What is important now that the Storting has taken its decision is that the assessments to be made are made as quickly as possible. It is important that you get a quick clarification, so that you can calm down on this matter and the service can go further where it is going. What is regrettable is that some people and parties in Stortinget have created around this case. It is regrettable to attribute to the government parties opinions that they do not have, and the rescue helicopter service does not serve to create a situation that is not real. Here we associate as many opinions as politicians. I think you should hear a little about what the Council of State Dørum says about how he's going to interpret the decision Stortinget is making today. I kind of feel that is the final proof that the opposition in Stortinget is boiling soup on a nail. You kind of try to create a situation that's not there. You try to scare people both in Troms and Finnmark, and not least you scare those who work in today's 330 square with a situation that is not real. I just want to say that I'm personally from Hammerfest. I have not fought for that base to be moved to Hammerfest, and I will not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e944	The main posts of the Christian People's Party are held by the representative of Holstad in the Judicial Committee. However, since this is a matter which has also been discussed in the Defence Committee, I would like to touch on a few points. The Judicial Committee has, in a joint opinion, agreed with the assessment in the communication that the defence squadron 330 should be the main operator of the future rescue helicopter service. It is important that the defense's expenditure on the rescue helicopters is made visible. Real costs are also important in relation to budgetary processes. By adding both professional and budgetary responsibilities to the Ministry of Justice, this could be much easier. As the Christian People's Party's spokesperson for defence matters, however, I am concerned that the total costs associated with the decisions proposed have not been fully identified and that the distribution between departments has not been determined. In fact, this is a message, and more details will come later, but I would like to stress that the defence in the current situation cannot cover costs that are not relevant to the activities of the defence. With today's staff and helicopters, it is impracticable to establish a service with a 24-hour continuous presence on four bases with 100 pst. Standby and 85 pst. on the Back, without a significant increase in the appropriations. Otherwise, I would just like to point out that effective maintenance of the defence helicopters is very important both for preparedness and for a short response time. The defence implements a project aimed at providing a unit fleet of helicopters for all defence needs, including the rescue service. Cooperation with the Naval Defence Heliport is important in the event of major accidents or at sea, as rescue helicopters will be able to land on coastguard vessels or the new frigates in order to dissipate or refuel. This possibility must be important both in the assessment prior to the acquisition of new rescue helicopters and in an assessment of the coordination of rescue helicopter services with private helicopter resources. I would also like to refer to the Health Ministry's clear feedback that medical care, especially anaesthetics, is not recommended by the rescue helicopters, simply because you cannot meet the need for anaesthesia at the country's hospital. However, increased emergency medical preparedness is so important that other possible solutions need to be found and a debate on what is best. Finally, there's another helicopter case today. I'm not getting involved in that debate, but I'm very happy that the police are finally getting a police helicopter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e963	For someone who has not worked with the message itself in this matter, but has now heard part of the debate, this has been a strange debate. It seems – especially when you listen to the representatives of the Workers' Party – that Innst. S. No 156 will rage the rescue services in Norway. That's pretty crazy! That is an improvement on what we have. It is an improvement for those who travel along the coast, and – not least – what is inside is actually increasing the safety of those who travel on the sea. But if you listen to the debate, you can think that now everything is going on, now this will no longer work – despite the fact that there are more bases and more helicopters, it is getting better preparedness, and more and more people are getting a better offer. The representative Nordtun even manages to stand on this pulpit and say, "What do you do if there's a strike?" When there is a danger to life and health, it is up to the Government to promote a proposition and to cancel that strike. It's that simple. It is not possible to try to express that strike is a problem with the rescue service. But this setting could be a little bit better, it could be almost optimal, if you'd been in favour of the Advance Party's proposal to lay the base for the North West to Vigra. And it's a little strange when you read the comment from the Working Party and SV in the setting. There you can see that the police officer is located in the municipality of Flora, you can see that you have a good infrastructure to create a base there, and then you even show – and it turned down like a bomb! – that Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag want it added to Flora. But the rest of the Fishlayer wants it added to Vigra. I was not so surprised that Sogn and Fjordane Fiskarlag wanted it for Sogn and Fjordane! But there's one thing you haven't really grasped – because there's one thing that's changed since the Fostervoll committee's inauguration: the hospital in Florø has lost its emergency medical preparedness. This has not been adequately taken into account. And you can be surprised, especially when you hear the representative Wisløff Nilssen, who refers to the importance of this, and nevertheless votes for a base where the nearest hospital actually does not have the readiness that she herself claims is so important. In addition, the base of Vigra's experience in the rescue helicopter service, they had it for three years before Prime Minister Bondevik chose to remove it. And now Prime Minister Bondevik has also, in his present government, still chosen to keep Vigra out of it. There are also helicopter hangars on Vigra, so there you can start right away. That's why I would recommend the hall to take the sense and vote for Vigra.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e974	I will first join the representative Gjul, who said that she had never experienced a government faction having imposed on her own government council, in this case Minister of Defence Krohn Devold, such a humiliating defeat as in this case. Of course, it's about Banak and the defense infrastructure in Finnmark. My impression is that especially the Right, but that has to apply to all the government parties, simply does not deal with being in the government position and having a fraction in the Stortinget. When Robertsen says that he wants a quick assessment of Banak as quickly as possible, you can take that evaluation very quickly and at noon. Today, 15 votes in favour of the proposal to maintain Banak. That's the fastest way to do it. It will also eliminate any uncertainty related to the Banak base, for both the people of Finnmark, the Defense, NATO and the Stortinget are entitled to know what the Right believes about the Banak Air Station and the 330 Quadron. Will Banak be maintained, as the Right Representatives of the Defence Committee believe, and as they have expressed today, or will the base be moved to Hammerfest, as the Right Members of the Judicial Committee have at least initially agreed to, but we do not know what we really mean? In any case, it will have the consequence that the defence infrastructure in Finnmark is at risk, and so will the possibilities for allied exercises. How will the defence minister's own party, the so-called defence-friendly Right, explain to his NATO allies that Banak airbase is being laid down, that they are voting against a proposal to maintain Banak, a proposal which it was necessary to make precisely because of the majority's comments in the Justice Committee, which the Justice Committee had plenty of time to reconsider and re-examine after the case had been in the Defence Committee for consideration, and after the Minister of Defence had responded to a number of letters from the Defence Committee? The Right and Christian People's Party in the Judicial Committee has apparently been completely unaware of this issue – until the Defence Committee had consulted the Minister of Defence and received their letters and answers. And how on earth is the communication between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence, and does not the members of the Judicial Committee of the Right and the Christian People's Party speak with their respective parties in the Defence Committee? For our part, we have had excellent cooperation with our parties in the Committee on Justice – it is a cooperation for the follow-up. I hope that the Minister of Justice will also comment on this from the Chair of the Grand Duchy, because we must also be able to expect in the future work on civil protection, that there is a communication between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e981	First of all, unfortunately – others have been involved, some have just mentioned it as a passerby – I very much regret that the Council of Defense is not present in the Chamber today. In such an essential matter, in such a crucial case for the rescue services for many, many years to come, it is strange. After what I would call a very confusing presentation of the case, how clearly the Minister of Justice and Defence has not communicated, I would like to see it as absolutely necessary that this service be brought together in one department – it only underlines the need for it. It has been interesting to follow the debate here today. The debate has in many ways revealed an ideological disagreement that, in large parts of the debate, has overshadowed what this really is about, and what we are really going to do. Everyone in the room is obviously concerned about one thing, getting the best possible rescue service. It is therefore strange when the representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have such a deep fear of innovation that they reject any form of competitive outsourcing. I would say that private business in this country is the basis for us to run it at all. Then to the localization question. From the Defence Committee, questions were sent to the Defence Councils, where we, among other things, ask, ‘If the helicopter base is moved, what will the direct consequence be for Banak Defence Aviation Station?’ Part of the response from the Council of State is: ‘The stationing of the 330 squadron on Banak is a key condition for the military operation of the air station today’.» Yes, perhaps essential, but not decisive! In addition, she answers: ‘The defence currently shares the costs of operating Banak with the Swedish Aviation Agency based on a distribution key linked to flight movements. A transfer of the defence activity associated with the 330 squadron will result in an increased cost to the Aviation Agency of keeping the aerodrome open.’» Yeah, okay, I think! Furthermore, the answer is: ‘Deficient revenues on Banak may result in Alta being considered as a regional civil airport and the defence may be charged to all the costs of operating Banak airport. This, in turn, could lead to the defence not having financial opportunities for the continued operation of Banak, and could lead in the utmost consequence to the closure of Banak as an aerodrome both for civil and military purposes.» I don't believe this! This is actually a budget question, and if the parties Work Party, SV and the Center Party are so afraid of the closure of Banak, I expect that they will later agree to grant money to maintain the station. In that case, it should not be on the Advancement Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1013	In assessing Banak, we need to be aware that in the future, the defence will need a great deal of use of Halkavarre shooting grounds, both for national and allied aviation departments. This field of fire, together with Setermoen, is the only field of fire that can be used for training with air to ground operations from fighter aircraft. Today, when the field of fire is used, there is a requirement for a helicopter with an ambulance capacity of 15 minutes on standby on Banak, and that applies when there is training on fighter aircraft. As I said, the Fostervoll committee concluded that Banak was to be moved to Hammerfest. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, asks that this be assessed in the context of the Snow White field. The same majority argues that the 330 squadron shall be the operator at the base of Banak. I have registered that there is concern in the municipality of Porsanger. I can see that. But as long as these assessments are to be made in relation to the Snow White field, I feel safe, because Snow White is as far as I know a closed gas facility, where there will be no out-of-sea activities, but an activity right outside Hammerfest City, which in my view would not necessarily mean that there is a need to increase the helicopter rescue service. I trust that the Government will now make an assessment of this and come back quickly to Stortinget with a conclusion. The conclusion must pay particular attention to the conditions encountered in the process. As a defence politician, I ask in particular that the defence needs of Banak be given strong attention. I understand that the Council of State is also concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1025	There have been some comments today that make it necessary for me to say something now at the end of the debate. The representative Thorkildsen of the Socialist Left Party says that when it comes to what we're dealing with now, it's about life or death, and so the defense has to deal with the matter. I think it's great that SV says. When it comes to life or death, the defense must be connected. There may be a motto for SV in the continuation of the debate on the role of defence. But when it is used as an expression to say that the Christian People's Party evades the responsibility for people's lives and health by going in for any civil operators around Norway, it becomes such a strong insinuation that it is only Gunn Karin Gjul from the Workers' Party that joins it, saying that it is experimenting with people's lives and health. It's gross, and the Christian People's Party believes that by going into the arrangements we're going into in this setting, we're not experimenting with people's lives and health, but we're helping to ensure the best possible rescue service that makes people's lives and health not at stake. Marit Nybakk says that in the corridors the government parties say one thing, while in the setting we stand for something else. The representative, Gjul, says that what government parties go in for, means that the people of the coast are going to fail. I would like to stress first of all that we do not want to fail the people of the coast! And as for the position of Banak or Hammerfest, we've taken it from a serious assessment of what's in the big news on page 21: ‘The selection considers that the rescue helicopter base in Finnmark should be on the coast and that Hammerfest will be the most suitable site for the location of a rescue helicopter base.’ In addition, it says: ‘The rescue professional justification for moving the base from Banak to Hammerfest is that the flight time from the base of Banak to the coast of Finnmark is approximately. 40 minutes, and the average response time at Banak is today approx. Forty-five minutes. Consequently, it will take approx. 85 minutes before a rescue helicopter can reach and start the rescue operation in case of a coastal accident.» Then it's not about failing the people of the coast that there's going to be a shorter response time, and that you're in place a lot of faster ones? There are also other aspects of this, and the Christian People's Party wants to take full account of when we make our decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1044	It's probably true that it's 40 minutes' flight time from Banak to the coast. Now both the Minister of Defence in a letter to the Committee and several speakers have pointed out that 80 pst. of the missions carried out in the country of origin. Adhesive Conradsen has illustrated in an excellent way that a gas field such as Snow White is unlikely to increase visibly the need for the presence of rescue helicopters in Hammerfest. But when I found again to ask for the word, it was not because of what was said in the last post, but on the basis of an article that was made by Carsten Dybevig earlier in the debate. There you could almost imagine that we were about to end up with some kind of Tuppen and Littlemor debate, where Carsten Dybevig made the head of the Defence Committee a representative of someone who is going to sell his services, and himself a representative of someone who is going to buy services. Honestly, that kind of argument I thought I'd let go of a debate like this. So we who are elected to the National Assembly are elected to take care of completely different interests, not to degrade ourselves or to represent the seller and the buyer in different contexts. If I felt convinced that the defense was not best suited to the rescue service, and if I felt convinced that the defense's rescue helicopters were not fit to perform this service, I would have no doubt that we should find other solutions despite being a member of the defense committee. I'm not here primarily to take care of the defence's interests in thick and thin if it doesn't serve society as a whole the best. So we're in the paradoxical situation that speeches after speeches have gone up here and said that the defense has done the job in an excellent way, the 330-square has worked to the satisfaction of all of us, and no one can dream of taking the service from them. That's what you're left with at the end and at the seventh. In fact, we also heard the representative Raymond Robertsen perform to say that the opposition creates uncertainty in Finnmark about the future of the rescue services. No, to be honest, it's actually the government parties that have raised doubts about this by putting in a proposal to consider moving, and that one should consider helicopters other than the Defense, despite the fact that one after another goes up here and says, "No, of course, we're not prepared to move, we're obviously not prepared not to use the Defense helicopter, but it might be nice to have it evaluated. So there's one thing left: So it's the dogmatic privatisation tool of the Right that's going on in every case, regardless of whether it serves society as a whole or not, whether it makes sense or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1055	It was the representative Nesvik who got me to take the floor, because I will not let it contradict that the majority in the Justice Committee today has chosen the least optimal base option for the North West, namely Florø. On the contrary, the majority of the Judicial Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, have landed on the most optimal base option, namely Florø. The representative Nesvik went over the Workers' Party and SV's comment and the foundation to choose Florø. Now Nesvik has gone out of the hall, but at least I want to ask the representatives of the Progress Party who are present to listen when I now quote from the Fostervoll selection's professional basis for why Florø is the best choice: ‘Statistics of accidents in Norway with five or more fatalities in the period 1970-1996, where it would be appropriate to use rescue helicopters stationed on Vigra or in Florø, show that a helicopter stationed in Florø would be the fastest to arrive at 15 out of a total of 18 accidents’.» This means that Florø is the most optimal choice. Furthermore, the Foundation states: ‘The prevailing direction of wind in the area is south-west. This makes it more advantageous in the Stadt area to have a rescue helicopter base on Florø than on Vigra, as one from Florø wants to have with wind at a callout and get faster than if one were standing on Vigra and had to fly to the same area with headwinds.» So Florø is the most optimal choice. And on the other hand, ‘Another aspect that should also be taken into account is that Florø is approximately. 35 minutes of flight closer to the areas in the north of the North Sea... than... Vigra’.» So Florø is the most optimal choice. So Nesvik said that what has changed since the Fostervoll selection presented its NOU is the emergency response at the hospital in Florø. But there's no more than six miles to Förde, there's a central hospital in Sogn and Fjordane with a plentiful emergency response. Helicopters are also not supposed to fly back to the hospital in the area they come from, they of course dragged to the hospital that is closest in time. And the solar wind, which is an advantage for the base in Florø, will perhaps bring the helicopter to Åse Hospital in Møre and Romsdal, so that the moorings will also have an advantage of the base lying in Florø. I just want to finish by saying that the Justice Committee's choice of Florø as the base should think about the Progress Party until the vote today, to see if they can't find that they will support Florø as the most optimal base option.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1086	After listening to parts of this debate, one should believe that we were engaged in a balancing debate where we reduced the quality of service, which we certainly do not. Unfortunately, it's become a lot of negative focus on what we're doing, rather than positive focus. It is a fact that the quality of the service is strengthened and improved in essential areas, and the Storting signal here is that it is willing to add increased cost frameworks to it. That means that things can get significantly better than before. Enoksen spoke, among other things. that the 330 quadron has done an excellent job – and that is probably correct. At the same time, it is my opinion that the 330-square also has an improvement potential. I don't think any of the operators are so unique that they don't have the opportunity to improve, including the 330s quadron, and I think that's what we're going to do inwards. I think everyone has such a potential. Then I can't leave it undisputed that the Workers' Party has been up here and shown its ability to reason, and I appreciate that. What surprises me is that the Workers' Party obviously has a very limited short-term memory, cf. who has submitted this notification, including: states that the defence shall not compete with commercial operators. And when it says in St.meld. No 44, it must certainly be relevant to this message – if not, you should not have written it. But you're now running from it, and you've forgotten about it. Then you're very concerned about Finnmark. I appreciate that, and I understand that. But where does Svalbard make it? They talk about climatic conditions in Finnmark. Where does Svalbard, which is even further north, have even tougher climatic conditions? It's easy to ignore, because what you focus on is the defence and the defence role in Finnmark, and it's going to be wrong for me. I'll give honor to the government. In this case, the government has put rescue professionals in the focus. And that's what this is all about. It is not about the kind of special interests to be taken care of by the Fiskers' team, which are to be defended, which are to be cared for by other civil organisations. It's about what, in total, provides the best possible rescue professional service. It's priority number. 1st@item: inlistbox Then, of course, there will be a debate about the rescue helicopter to the Defense. I'm going to think that someone will eventually have concerns about the fact that the helicopters that might turn white and red will fly around while they're rigged and prepared to be a full-fledged war machine. It must be thoughtful for someone, I think. Then you focus on the excellent quality of the defense, and let's be glad to see the fact that there is, as I have said before, a lot of civil society in this country that does a great job. And I don't think you have respect for them in some of the statements that come. That's what I think we should take inwards. Think of the great values that are created out on the ocean, that we've talked about before today. It's not the defense that flies there, it's civil society. And those who fly in and out are satisfied with the service, otherwise this would not have worked. So I think the solution is good. We are approaching the end of the debate, and what is generally available from the majority will provide a very good service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1108	In the change of lines after my main post, I perceived it so that what I said about how I would follow up the discussion about location in Finnmark was taken into account. I made it clear that I saw it so that the government here would have time to assess where the base would be, and whether the defense would also be the operator. I went on to say in connection with this with the use of private operators that it could be relevant that, in addition to Florø, it could be somewhere else in the country than Finnmark. So I also said that it was very important that this was done as quickly as possible, and I stressed it on the basis of both the general social debate that has been held, and also the debate in the Chamber. I perceived this as being taken into account during the line change. Then I've been asked a question if I'm working with the Minister of Defence. Of course, I do, in the context of the implementation proposition, and not least in the context of the vulnerability message, and so it should continue to be, even when the government as a college follows up what the Stortinge is dealing with in this room today. It's the usual form of work, and it has to be like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1115	I record with little satisfaction and almost with concern – serious concern – that it does not seem that the government parties intend to vote in favour of the proposed continuation of the rescue helicopter service on Banak. But I have one question that I need to be clarified by the Minister of Justice. We've been figuring out for years what kind of helicopter we're going to use in Defense. The majority of the Judicial Committee has now said that a new professional forum should be set up to find out more about helicopters. Is it really necessary, in the opinion of the Minister of Justice, or can he now perhaps try to put that ball to death and not spend four new years continuing such a 'forum job'?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1122	Odd Roger Enoxen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1125	I actually thought we were in the process of changing lines, and that was also the previous speaker asked for the word, but then I misunderstood. But that's okay. I'll be fine with one minute. I note and take note of what the Minister of Justice has said, and that the Minister of Justice actually also represents the common sense in this regard. I think this is going to solve itself. But I also note that the Government has not managed to get its own parties in this Chamber to listen to common sense and thus to put away a proposal and statements that would be completely unnecessary – where the cooperation partner you have, the Progress Party, also has a completely different view of what is going to happen than the people of the Government Party and the Minister of Justice say.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1132	The President will assume that governments in general represent the Government and not the common sense!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1135	It could certainly arouse some commitment in the hall if I took a line on the president, but I'm not going to do it! We can build on the fact that the person who gives an office is also given understanding, and it is up to the opinion to interpret how this is managed. As for the question I was asked about the assessment of the helicopter type, Stortinget has asked me to make such an assessment by the end of 2003, and I will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1143	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2779]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1159	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1168	It is with pleasure that I record the committee's willingness to end a long fight to provide the police with a new and forward-looking tool. Over several years, the discussion of the usefulness of police helicopters has been one-sidedly focused on costs. The willingness to change attitudes to new and different use of helicopters in the police has been one of the main challenges for years. The prevention effect through offensive use of helicopters has not been tested in Norway. There has therefore been little access to experience in this area. Nearly two years ago, there was a rough run at the Winterbro centre in Akershus. It was supposed to be 10 hours before the defense set up with a helicopter to assist the police in the pursuit of the criminals. In a modern society, we can no longer arrange for the criminals to be given almost free rent after committing serious criminal acts. Several tragic events in recent years have updated the use of their own helicopter in the police. Among others, I can mention an accident that happened on the Ringway in Oslo two years ago, where a young mother was killed. Car policing ended up in a disaster for a young family. He who was responsible for the accident by driving towards the direction of the road for several miles blamed the police. The police are often exposed to ‘indispensable’ tasks to be solved in seconds and under very strong pressure. It is easy to criticise the choice of solutions by the police when the tragedy occurs. I allow myself to remind myself that most of the tasks the police are facing are satisfactorily solved, without us reading about it in the newspapers. For 17 months until 1 May 1999, the police had a very good tool in preventing traffic safety through a separate police helicopter. It was hired private helicopter manned by the police's own crews, and well equipped and prepared for very many situations that might arise. The police helicopter contributed during the probationary period to save human lives. How many serious road accidents were prevented by the visibility of the major roads in the Oslo area, it is difficult to establish, for the simple reason that it was never registered. The group that evaluated the project using police helicopters pointed out that the measure represented a quality improvement through ‘increased efficiency, resource savings and better provision of police services’. Police helicopters will be a useful tool in many fields of police work. Experience from Sweden, which has had its own helicopter service in the police since 1964, shows that the use of one helicopter in traffic surveillance can be just as good as several dozen police cars to create the same preventive effect. No funds were found to continue the system of their own police helicopters after 1 May 1999. It is time for an overall committee to establish its own helicopter service in the police department. The service shall be day-based with a high level of preparedness. An overall committee believes it is essential to establish the service as a separate service in line with the dog patrol, drug and anti-terrorism services. Most other countries in Europe have a helicopter service in the police. As mentioned earlier, Sweden has had such a service since 1964. The service shall be freely accessible to those police districts which could naturally make use of it. This is a crucial principle in relation to the use of and access to the service. The Committee considers that the introduction of a certain level of self-payment could result in police districts refusing to use the police helicopter. Most of the opinions on the crew side support that the service should be staffed with police pilots and officers with a minimum of five years of police experience. It is important that pilots have police tactical knowledge in order to solve demanding tasks safely and effectively. There have been accidents involving helicopters with civil pilots on the police mission, where the situation inside the helicopter has been a contributing cause of the accident. Reference is also made to the evaluation report of the test project of 27 April 1999. In our situation, it is necessary to emphasise the need to make use of the experience gained in other countries’ police helicopter services. The helicopter shall be of a light two-engine type. The helicopter shall have a uniform crew. When the Committee has chosen to provide a detailed description of the equipment on board the police helicopter, it is in order to ensure a well-functioning service from day one. During the test project, the heat-seeking camera was first fully mounted towards the end of the test period. The Committee will not allow for intermediate solutions this time. Furthermore, reference is made to the evaluation report of the test project. In addition, I would like to clarify that the equipment mentioned in the setting is a minimum to establish a proper service. At the conclusion of an operating agreement, the Committee emphasises requirements for backup helicopters as a condition for continuous operation. In a start-up phase, the need for flight time is estimated to be at least 800 hours. However, it must at all times be for the watchman police pilot to decide which tasks are to be given priority and the scope of the available resources and the safety of the crew. The users of the service, the police and public agencies will naturally need some time before they learn to use it. The Committee considers that the police helicopter may be an additional resource to the Sea King of the rescue services in mission to search for missing persons over land and mission high to mountain. An easily operated police helicopter is both better and cheaper than a rescue helicopter in that mission. I see the establishment of a separate police helicopter service as a strengthening of the search part of the rescue preparedness on land. In rescue operations at sea, today’s rescue helicopters will remain the only fully-fledged option. Planned missions, either for the police or other public agencies, will be beneficial to preparedness. During the planned mission, the helicopter will already be active and in readiness. In any case, in the Committee's view, this will have a preventive effect on several types of crime. The police helicopter will have a preventive effect by simply operating. During a start-up phase, it will be necessary to hire helicopters with technical service and operational organisation. This allows for the fastest possible establishment of the service. In the long term, a separate operating organisation with its own pilot-in-command is desirable. The service shall be 24 hours and located in the Oslo area on a base with hangars, offices and other facilities combined. After careful evaluation, it has been chosen to place the police helicopter in this district, as the Oslo Police District is responsible for nationwide and regional dog service tasks, drug and anti-terrorist activities, as well as traditional police tasks. The Committee is of the opinion that the nationwide police helicopter is to be organised under the Oslo Police Chamber. It would be an advantage if the base could be linked to another police holding in order to ensure the best possible protection of the police environment. The Committee considers port police to be such an option. A co-location will optimise services. The aim of the Committee is for a nationwide service to cover elsewhere than the Oslo area in the long term. However, when the Committee finds to locate the first police helicopter to Oslo, it is based on an overall assessment of population density, police access to their own resources and the fact that helicopter coverage is better elsewhere in the country. It will be an advantage if enlargement to other parts of the country takes place after an evaluation of the experience gained in the early years of the Oslo region. Cost calculations have been made for the purchase and rental of helicopters, respectively. If you calculate the cost over an eight-year period, the purchase option is clearly the best. In the start-up phase, the most appropriate option should be chosen, but I would like to stress that the long-term objective is to build an owned material structure. In my opinion, it is important to strengthen the basis for future operations through the gradual build-up of skills in the first few years and to establish an organisation that is as cost-effective as possible. All hearing bodies stress that the costs of setting up a police helicopter service must not be charged to the ordinary operating budgets without corresponding increases in transfers. The notification assesses the cost of one year of operation to be in the order of approximately. $12 million. kr. It has then been taken into account approx. 800 hours of flight time. The Committee assumes that the police helicopter service shall operate from 1 September 2003 at the latest. I would like to make it clear that a previous launch could increase preparedness in the Oslo area, both at sea and on land. If we're going to get the zero vision if no one killed or seriously injured in traffic, we're going to have to use all the available tools. A separate helicopter service in the police will be an important contribution to the struggle to reach this vision. I want to congratulate the police and the Norwegian people on a new weapon in the fight to protect lives and values. I refer you to the unanimous position of the Committee and proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1217	This case has a pretty long history. Already in 1994-95, Document No. 8:88 about establishing permanent helicopter service in the police taken up by the representative Roy N. Wetterstad. I remember very well, because I was also in the same committee. A trial project was launched, which was also proposed from this room and opposed by bureaucracy and the police. The trial project got off to a strange start, when it was decided not to use the few officials in the department who had a helicopter licence, but instead decided to spend time and money on a pilot project to train new police pilots. Despite this, the test project showed very positive results. In any case, the final report could not be interpreted in any other way. Therefore, great was the surprise when the conclusion of the trial was that the Minister of Justice, who was also at the time named Dørum, would not, however, introduce helicopter as a new tool in the police. He chose to be conservative and let go of new ways of working. This matter I believe shows how much power the bureaucracy has in a department, perhaps especially when it is replaced ministers. The opponents have been many, including inside the police. That is why I am very excited that this time we will see that the will of the Great Britain will really happen in practice. For me, this case has given me valuable learning. I have become more sceptical and more suspicious of any department and its ministers, more aware of the forthcoming solutions, and, if possible, even more so. Why do we think helicopter is a useful tool for the police? First, life can be saved by quickly being in the air with heat - seeking cameras when people are reported missing. We have had enough examples of relatives thinking that the police have reacted too late in such cases. Every saved human life is very important to us. This and the previous government have formulated a zero vision for road accidents. Monitoring over long distances can go quickly and efficiently. We have large areas of national parks and other protected areas that need to be monitored. This work will be cheaper and better done by helicopter. Today, this work is done via snowmobiles on snowmobiles and via foot patrols whenever possible. But many weeks a year, it's not possible to get into part of our national parks without a helicopter. We also know that those who want to commit animal crime have access to the best possible means of development. We have car chases, also across driving directions, which have cost and will cost lives in Norway. They don't have that in Sweden, because there they use helicopters for such persecution. In case of screening of smugglers of all kinds and in hostage situations, helicopter is an excellent tool. From the helicopter you can follow along, and then you can direct the police cars, possibly the police, directly to where they are going. In this way, the time and blindness of today are avoided. In the same way, it can be worked on a large ramp where cars are replaced and burned, and boats are also sometimes put into service. By having video cameras fitted to the helicopter, this may also be used for investigation purposes and in court as evidence. The police always complain about small budgets. Using helicopters could also give less counting on the overtime budget. I'll make this visible by an example. For many years Pentecostal traffic through Westfold on the old E18 was very, very large. Outside Holmestrand there were at least two days in the pink a police car for horror and warning. There were one or two policemen or women in it. They didn't sit there for free. I do not think they should do that either. But I believe that a helicopter for this use had been much cheaper, for it could monitor much larger distances and not only the small distance outside Holmestrand where the car was standing. A police helicopter will therefore be much more deterrent on many roads. In the case of demonstrations of different types, possible counter-demonstrations and surveillance of areas in which state heads and other prominent persons are being visited, helicopters are also an excellent tool, rather than cars. In the heat of campers, cars can be subjected to military forces, ramifications and even used to protect themselves behind. Using a helicopter, on the other hand, in the police department, I think it's a good tool. In addition, it will be able to save the lives and health of policemen, and that is also an important aspect of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1234	This is a good day for the police in Norway. The police are now given sufficient resources and instruments to combat crime in society, and police helicopters are to be useful instruments and a new offensive against the crime that prevails in society. I have to say we take the crime scene seriously. The Labour Party showed us an abduction policy in the 1990s, where there was no willingness to use sufficient means to combat the crime that existed. We see that only in the last five to six years, reported crimes have increased by approx. 10-15 pst. We see an increase in the number of violent crimes of 25 p.m. from 1997 to 2001, and an increase in the number of drug offences of 40 pst. from 1997 to 2001. So here we need a whole series of new measures to fight crime. New police helicopters are one of the measures to provide the police with an effective tool to combat the crime we see growing. The government has set up a number of measures for the last six months as it has been in place. measures to combat sexual abuse of children. There have been proposals to increase the criminal framework for the illicit use and transport of weapons and knives. There have been extended powers to search persons and vehicles in public places. There's been more money for the police. There has been a sharp increase in both the state budget and the revised national budget in terms of police funding. There has been a major reorganization of the police, which is now being implemented and which is already proving to be effective. There have been actions against organised crime, and we have had increased cooperation in the Schengen area through, among other things, Europol and Interpol. Now there will also soon be new legislative measures against terrorism through Ot.prp. No 61. So I have to say that this government and the parties that are in charge of the majority in this room show action in relation to the crime scene that we've seen in recent years. There has also been increased focus, for example. in relation to the settlement cows in Norway, where there have been for years omissions from former Labour Party Councils. Among other things, a new prison is to be built in Halden. It has to be redeployed at Vardeåsen, and there are measures to train more prison officers. The sum of these measures, in addition to the decision on police helicopters today, is that there is a new criminal policy that we see, where the fight against crime has been upgraded, and the days of naivety have been spoken. The real crime statistics tell us that old-fashioned, traditional social democratic naivism is now being replaced by a practical and sober judicial policy. Police helicopters are part of this package to combat crime, which reaches new heights. In the case of police helicopters in particular, this question has been raised many times. It is now important that we stop talking, and that we adopt the proposal that is now before us. The service shall be day-based. It shall have a high level of preparedness, and it shall be a service equivalent to, for example: The dog patrol. Experiences from Europe, including: Sweden, too, shows that police helicopters represent an enormous increase in the quality of police work to combat crime. The police helicopter service shall be freely accessible to all police districts, even if it is initially to be located and located in Oslo. It's supposed to be manned by police pilots and paramedics from the police. Police helicopters shall also be an additional resource for the rescue services, as we have previously discussed. It will, of course, strengthen the part of the work that, among other things. is on the search area of preparedness in the country. Helicopters can, of course, also undertake missions for other public agencies and support them, and of course can also be an instrument in actions that alone can have a preventative effect. The message is also that the helicopter service in the police will actually be able to save quite large sums of money in other areas. So let's do an example of that. There have been some searches for missing persons, which will probably be much easier now, where you have a heat-seeking camera located in the police helicopter. The overall picture of a new police helicopter will provide the police with entirely new tools, new resources and new opportunities to combat the widespread crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1249	I have to start by joining the previous speaker, to make it easy here. I think Carsten Dybevig had a glittering review of status – what has been, and what must be our goal. At the same time, some of us might have to pour a little bit of paint into the beggar here. So here the representatives stand in order on this platform and say how good it is now. And it'll be safe. You'll see that you get a more functional service, you get more operational, and you save money. Then my question becomes, which is almost a paradox: why doesn't the majority go in for helicopter service more places, if that's so good? Why don't we go for it in Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim or Tromsø? But you don't. Now you're saying we're going to have one helicopter. I fully accept that it is a good start, but I expect that if it is as good as it is described by those who have been up here before me, the service should be extended at the maximum speed. And personally, I want to ask the Minister that, in the event of enlargement, he assesses Finnmark. I think a helicopter number. 2 should be given priority to Banak. And it's related to the last matter we debated. I think a helicopter number. 2 up there, which is rigged for smaller SAR missions, i.e. Search and Rescue, could have been used to save inland areas on the Finnmarks. In addition, such a helicopter could have assisted the reindeer police. We know that there are great distances, and that there are sometimes quite great disagreements and complicated conflicts up there where you go to both the one and the other, cf. media redundancy. My challenge to the Minister of Justice is that this is a good first step. Let's not have to wait long for steps two, three, four and five to expand the police helicopter staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1260	Proposals to establish a separate helicopter service in the police department have been addressed a number of times in the last 20 years, at the latest in connection with the treatment of St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 4 for 2000-2001, the Stortinget requested a review of the cost-benefit of its own helicopter service in the police, without such a service charging other parts of the police’s regular operating budget. The final report currently under consideration is the Ministry’s response to this request. There can be no doubt that in some situations the police will need helicopter support. Experience has shown that in some situations, helicopter services need to be hired either from the Defence Department or from civil actors. This has been a model where the evaluation itself is being carried out by requesting police districts, which prioritise this type of resource use against other alternatives. In the context of the Committee's position, which will be followed up, some aspects I consider to be worthy of emphasis. It is important to facilitate a solution that will not only be a solution for some parts of the country. While the need for the central eastern region is emerging from conditions such as population density and crime, the need for other parts of the country will be linked to other police resources and geographical distances. But, of course, I have noticed the practical approach of the committee to this, that one must start somewhere and gain experience somewhere, and of course I will take that into account. The size granted in 1996 was 5 million. a pilot project involving police helicopters in the East, to which several have referred. Based on the test project, it is assumed that the beneficial effect of the helicopter is primarily linked to: search for missing/disappeared person before or where it is not appropriate to deploy rescue helicopter search in case of suspicion of serious crime, which has also been supervised/supervised/unprinted by several speakers in relation to nature/environmental crime control/monitoring in connection with mass collections/transfers, such as events and demonstrations; In the context of the technical evaluation carried out by the project team, the applicants of police helicopters, i.e. police districts and police special agencies, considered helicopter as an essential tool in a few situations, but as a very useful additional resource in resolving various police missions. The need for helicopter support is estimated to be up to 1000 hours per. years. I feel that it is this important addition of the police's tools to react that underpins the unanimous committee position. The last moment I want to highlight is the cost of operating a helicopter service. The size itself has, in connection with a previous budgetary position, to which I have referred, underlined that police helicopters must not go at the expense of the other operating budget. Another important aspect is that in Norway there is relatively little experience in establishing and operating a helicopter service in the police. Therefore, I consider it both important and necessary to speed up slowly and gradually establish the basis of experience to provide effective helicopter support to the police, while at the same time doing so in an economically rational way. I feel that it is this approach that is in the committee position and that was also in the summary of the rapporteur. We're going to start with the action that's outlined here, which is proposed to be launched in Oslo, and then we're going to reap the experience and build the organization in such a way that it becomes a natural part of the police's operational capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1294	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2779]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1310	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1317	More than half of the children born in Norway today are born outside marriage. About 15 pst. of the population aged 20–79 years living in cohabitation. Most of them are found in the youngest age group. Suffering from such a large proportion of the population living in stable matrimonial relationships is not the law adapted to the new forms of life. The working party is concerned that we take the consequences of social development and the development of new forms of life. Moral opposition to these forms of life must not govern our policies in this area. We therefore support the proposal of the Socialist Left to equate spouses and cohabitants with the inheritance law. We agree that the cohabitants must be given the right to sit in the same place of residence and to receive an exemption from the inheritance fee. Children are entitled to financial security after the death of their mother or father, regardless of the form of life chosen. We have recently seen how unfortunate the surviving person can get out if you were not married. Losing your partner can be a very precious affair. An inheritance fee must be paid in order to take over a common dwelling and in addition a document fee must be paid. In addition, consensual residents do not have the right to sit in the opposite direction living with common children. I am therefore pleased that the Government has now made a proposal to amend the inheritance tax law. However, the Workers' Party is disappointed that the Government limits the right to exemption from the inheritance tax to those who live with common children only. This is in conflict with, among other things: The majority proposal of the Inheritance Fee Committee, which suggested that cohabitants who had lived together for at least two years before the death of the first deceased, or who have common children, should be exempted from the inheritance fee. I am also surprised that the majority of the committee, consisting of the government parties and the Progress Party, will not support the proposal by the proposers on the right of survivors to remain in the same state of affairs. Why don't you dare take the step fully? Are old - fashioned moral attitudes behind it? In that case, it's very unfortunate. In any case, lack of legislation will not hold back social developments, where more and more people choose forms of life other than marriage. The government has suggested that it return to the Storting in connection with the family announcement, to be presented during 2002, with a comprehensive review of the rights and obligations of the cohabiters. But before that, government parties won't take any stand at all. The problem is that in the meantime, unfortunately, we will have new cases where children and families will face great practical and financial difficulties as a result of an outdated law. We have to live with the fact that the government parties believe that the formalities are more important than making the reality of this matter clear. The working party believes that it is now urgent to put in place a piece of legislation. I hope that the Government and government parties also realize this, and that at the next crossroads they are willing to make the necessary legislative changes. Finally, I would like to address proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1336	Gunn Karin Gjul has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1339	The intention of the proposers in this case is good. Still more people choose to live together without getting married. It is a feature of social development that we should follow up in many areas, so that those who choose this form of life are not severely penalised economically. It is against this background that the Government of the revised national budget is committed to equalising cohabitants and spouses in terms of inheritance fees or gifts between them. The fee exemption shall apply to any inheritance acquired on or after 1 January 2002. An important difference between this proposal and the Government’s proposals is the criteria on which to be considered as cohabitants. The government is in favour of exempting from inheritance tax those cohabiters who have children in common or who have been married to each other in the past. In the right, there is a need for clear demarcation criteria for who should be considered as cohabitants. According to the SV's proposal, there is a need, inter alia, to: are considered as cohabitants if they have lived together for at least two years. In my opinion, there will be no difference between cohabitants and spouses if SV implements its policy. I think it should still be a difference here. In addition, proposers are very concerned about the rights. But what about the duties? A marriage is a more circumstantial process to dissolve. If you have children, you must, among other things, to mediation before a divorce is granted. There is no doubt that marriage in many cases provides a safer framework around a life. The decision to marry is a considerably larger step to take than it is to move together. The right stresses the importance of looking at the issue of the rights and obligations of the cohabiters as a whole. By the end of 2002, the government will provide a family message on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1350	It has been raised beyond any doubt that there is an important topic that is being highlighted here, not least when looking at social development, where more and more people are involved in coexistence. These include: to this body to find a reasonable management system, as well as in this case. At the same time, it is important to hurry slowly, so that you always have an overview of the consequences of what you do. That is the intention of the Progress Party in this matter. We have studied Document No. The 8-proposal carefully evaluates the benefits and disadvantages here. We have therefore drawn the conclusion that we want to see this in full in the context of the family communication that comes during this year. We think that's a sensible way to go, and we support that. In addition, we are also aware that the revised national budget takes this inwards and arranges it, so that this unfairness that is here is removed. I also believe that the Storting as a whole agrees that it is unreasonable not to have equated partners and married here. It's going to the Storting to take inwards and do something with it, but it's about a process where you make sure that what you're doing is going to be right, so you don't have to do things again afterwards. I have full confidence that the Storting will do this in a correct and reasonable way, so that both married and cohabited rights are protected in a good and reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1359	I cannot understand the starting point that is now being assumed, that equality between cohabitants who have children and married, but not cohabitants who do not have children, is to be achieved – that is how I understand it. I remember that the Progress Party in a Question Time talked about robbing cohabitants who lose their loved ones. It was a family that had children, which in some way was bribed for NOK 600 000 in fees. Why is there a difference between this family and a married couple who don't have children, but are put in the same argument, because we can't get modern enough to take over a reality where it's not like people marrying as much as before? Today, cohabitants have few rights over inheritance when one dies. They have a full inheritance fee, and they do not have the right to sit in the perfect stay. They may create mutual wills, but only for the part that does not include compulsory inheritance. If you have had a common economy formally and in practice, it doesn't matter. The consequence has been that in the worst case, the person who loses his partner does not receive inheritance at all, but in any case must complete the full inheritance settlement and pay inheritance fees and other public charges, such as: document fee, on the house that is considered to be sold if you receive it as an inheritance. This means a severely weakened economy and a great extra strain in what is already initially a difficult situation, that is, when you lose a person you love. I think it's strange that you can't just say that ok this has been a backward-looking policy that hasn't taken inward the developments we've had in society, where people don't get married to the same extent as before. And I repeat, I don't realize that there can be any difference between cohabitants who have children and cohabitants who don't have children when the result for those who remain remains is the same. I cannot understand here at least the party of progress, which is in a way the party of people most [[muttering in the hall]] So please, think about it, and support a very sensible proposal from SV and the Labour Party in this matter! I would finally like to comment on the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1374	No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. The President will express some doubts as to the extent to which skinning is a parliamentary activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1379	I am not going to spend a lot of time, because we have said in the vote that, first of all, the government has already grasped the issue of inheritance tax, and something will happen during the spring session, which was also referred to by the representative Ellingen. In addition, when it comes to the relationship with cohabitants, which has been argued quite strongly for so far, it is said that this comes back in a big message by the end of this year. In the Christian People's Party we would like to see the different positions and views discussed in their entirety and in conjunction. It is important to look at the issue of the rights and obligations of the cohabitants in the common context to which such a notification will relate.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1386	The centre party feels it's very good that it's now such a positive attitude to correct the biases we have in this law today, and adapt the law to the reality we live in, and the centre party will go far in that adaptation. We agree that consensual residents and spouses are to be treated equally in inheritance-related contexts in accordance with the investigations mentioned in the decision of the minority. The central government had come a long way in proposing to equalise the two groups, but you just have to realize that these things take time. Then we agree with SV in their proposal, which is that the provision we hopefully get will give retroactive effect. We are going to support proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I want to express the hope that we will get the progress in this matter that is suggested by the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1393	I am pleased that a majority in the Committee supports my proposal on how to follow up the proposals of the Samboercommittee and the Inheritance Committee on Equality between Cohabitants and Spouses. The government, at the Ministry of Children and Family, is now working on a family message that is planned to be promoted by the end of the current year. In this context, the question of the right of cohabitants to remain in the same state of residence will also be considered. On 7 May, the Government, at the Ministry of Finance, submitted a proposal to the Stortinget on the exemption from the inheritance tax for cohabiters in line with the proposal of the Inheritance Tax Committee. The proposal covers cohabitants who have previously been married to each other or who have or have had children in common. I note that a minority in the Committee also believe that childless cohabitants who have lived together for at least two years should be included in the legislative proposal. The recently submitted legislative proposal is based on the same definition of cohabitants as is currently used in the Swedish Social Security Act and proposed by the Inheritance Tax Committee. Using a incorporated definition, it was possible to present this proposal within a relatively short period of time. Any extension proposed would need to be further investigated, including: in the light of the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' family message, which will be promoted by the Government in the way I have explained. Another minority of the Committee is in favour of reducing the tax burden on cohabitants until 5 May 2000, which is the date of submission of the investigation by the Committee on Arbitration Fees. The recent legislative proposal proposes that inheritance and gift transfer take place on or after 1 January of this year, i.e. a certain retroactive effect. However, I cannot support the proposal for a further impact in approx. 1 and 1/2 years. It would require the resumption of an unintended number of cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2779]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1423	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Socialist Left Group and 5 minutes for the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1430	As rapporteur for Document No. 8:45, proposal from the representative Jan Simonsen, I would first like to point out that these are extremely difficult issues, which the majority of the committee – all except the Progress Party – think could deserve less light treatment than the representative Simonsen suggests. The views expressed in Simonsen’s proposal – and in the Progress Party – have two major weaknesses: firstly, they are not suitable for preventing abuse; and secondly, they can exacerbate the situation and lead to new abuses against children in the worst cases. I'll come back to why we mean this. The main starting point is that sexual abuse against children should respond quickly — and correctly —. We believe that this is absolutely essential to prevent new abuses, and that both victims and offenders need to get the help they need. There are often strong human sufferings that cause child abuse, and it is a great tragedy when victims who have not received the help they should be entitled to, later in life commit abuses against others. I've met some of them in Norwegian prisons. In addition, the majority believe that a qualitatively well-developed and well-developed treatment provision for prisoners in Norwegian prisons who have committed sexual assault is urgently needed and that after-sales protection needs to be significantly strengthened. It does not help anyone that a man who has served his punishment for what we all consider to be one of the worst adults can do to a child, commits new abuses when he gets out again in society. Demanding a life-long containment of such people is a major shock — at least for SV — if you have not given an offer of treatment that can help those involved, to a normal and good life where this is possible. When we also know that several of the attackers have been victims as children, we can only know what betrayal these people feel that they are being subjected to. To increase the aggression, bitterness and feeling of being failed and isolated by, for example: ‘oute’ all those who cross the Internet via a web site, as Simonsen suggests, will be able to facilitate both self-detection and new abuses. That chance is not the majority willing to take. SV is particularly pleased that the majority have joined a note where one says that the most important thing we politicians can do to prevent abuse is to facilitate ‘good... growing-up conditions for children and young people, an auxiliaries that function, schooled employees in, for example, kindergartens and schools, a well-developed and competent psychiatry and health service — including school health services, competence in assault issues throughout the criminal justice chain, good treatment services for those who are convicted, and a good... enforcement after an end of reconciliation’ — in my opinion very wise words, which obliges. SV believes that it is bad criminal policy to focus all its efforts on the implementation of stricter penalties and other enforcement measures, such as: chemical castration or forced medical treatment when research shows that this does not work preventively. Higher minimum punishment, as Simonsen suggests, won't give me security the day I become a mother, as long as I can't be sure that the man released from prison has actually improved. Similarly, it will not give me any sense of security to know that I will be informed on the day of a human being convicted of sexual assault, moving into my neighborhood – on the contrary. What should I do on the day I get to know it? As I see it, I would have two choices: either to move the sea, or to chase him away — if possible. And I'd be scared. The point is that we can never know if there is a potential attacker moving into the neighborhood, whether he is staying close to our children, or whether our children somehow come into contact with someone who could harm them for life. Most of them we don't know about. All we know is there's a lot of darkness in this area. For me as a future mother, it is important to know that attackers are being taken, that they are being treated, that they are being followed up, and that they are being kept away from society if there is a strong enough likelihood that they will commit new abuses. However, the fact that a person is subject to treatment does not guarantee that he can be released into society by, for example, sample release. The majority therefore believe that the representative Simonsen goes a long way in misleading the population, both when he wants to impose conditions for parole, and when he shows such faith in chemical castration. In addition, he does what the feminist has warned against every year: to explain sexual abuse as a sexual phenomenon, as a result of sexual desire or, if you want, of hormones, and not as a result of power and renunciation. The majority of the committee believes that sexual abuse against children is not about pure sexual needs, but that it is actually far more complicated than that. At the same time, the majority believe that the assessment of whether a victim who has committed sexual assault against children should be better tested must be ensured. As regards the issue of loss of rights, the majority does not wish to take a decision on this at this time. SV regrets the fact that there is a concrete proposal to this effect from the Progress Party, as we want more qualified opinions on this point. Today, the courts are obliged to consider the issue of loss of rights in the event of a conviction for sexual abuse of children, and we await a proposal from the Government that abuse of children as a general rule should lead to the loss of a position involving contact with children. In this context, I would like to remind you that very many of those who have committed such an assault do not do it again. The proposal for electronic surveillance is not foreign to me, but I and the majority believe that this will not be preventative, all the time the victims can be anyone. That the alarm goes as a former conviction approaches a kindergarten gives nothing but a false sense of security. The key here must also be treatment and post-protection. To conclude, the majority want a stronger focus on prevention, effective treatment and aftercare. We would have seen it as natural that a total accumulation ended up on this, as research shows that it is these measures that work, not as far as possible punishment, lifelong isolation and condemnation. At the same time, as a representative of the SV, I would like to remind the majority of the commitments in this area, even when we come to the budgetary procedure. We have now established that providing safe and good conditions for children and young people is the most important thing we can do to prevent child abuse. For SV, this is a commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1458	Sexual abuse against children is abominable actions from which we all take a strong distance. A number of measures have been taken in recent years both to intensify the criminal response to such cruel crimes and to improve the investigation of sexual abuse against children. The representative Simonsen's proposal is, with two exceptions, recycling of proposals he has made at least twice in the past, proposals that have been dealt with in depth and properly, but rejected. The proposals do not improve the number of times they are promoted – rather the opposite. What's strange about the Crime Policy of the Progress Party and the former Progress Party representative Simonsen is that they're mostly only engaged in firefighting and reacting after the cruel act has taken place. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the crime never occurs, and we give priority to measures to prevent such distortions. I demand that the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen will soon begin to understand this. But so far it seems that it is most important to appear to be effective after the crime has happened. We have received proof of this most recently from the budgetary procedure last autumn. The Labour Party and SV then proposed to support the ‘Alternative to Violence’ project, which provides treatment for violent men. This, of course, did not get the votes of the Progress Party, nor did the government parties. The representative Simonsen proposes in his proposal to use chemical castration as part of the punishment. Chemical castration used as punishment is a violation of international human rights. However, chemical castration may be used in the treatment of sexual offenders to prevent them from committing new crimes. Today, medical castration can be used on a voluntary basis in Norway, as it is also used in Denmark. But sexuality is controlled from the head and not from the sexes. I therefore have greater faith in change programmes, as one might say. use at the Bergen prison, which targets action patterns and mastery of its impulses. In addition, the countries currently using medical treatment and chemical castration in their treatment systems are based on volunteering. This is only an aid along with other treatment interventions. Without this overall approach, where it is central to responsible the attacker for his actions and not to repeat himself, chemical castration is assumed to be able to build up a tendency for the attacker rather to waive responsibility. Item No 2 in Jan Simonsen's proposal deals with prison leave. Under the new Penal Code, the prisoner may be granted leave when particularly important reasons justify it. It is clear from the guidelines and practices that a thorough assessment is to be made as to whether the conditions are met in the case of convictions of morality. Putting a general ban on leave if he is not being treated, the Workers' Party considers that this background is entirely unnecessary. In addition, we are afraid that such a ban would rather lead to an expectation of getting leave after initiation of treatment. As mentioned earlier, we are of the opinion that such medical treatment should be done on a voluntary basis. What is new to the proposals of Jan Simonsen is the proposal to publish and publish the names of the attackers. We are well aware that the Ministry of Justice has produced a circular that allows us to alert the community to prevent people who have been convicted of child abuse from committing new abuses. First, before the police can alert others, there must be points of reference which give reasonable grounds to fear that a crime can be committed, second, it must be necessary to prevent a distortion and third, it must not appear disproportionate to that warning. If these three criteria are met, there are no restrictions as to who can be notified. The proposal of the representative Simonsen goes much further, and is a modern form of gaping for sexual offenders. Hanging out people who have committed sexual crimes in this way only gives false security. In the worst case, it can work completely against its purpose and actually contribute to the danger of the attackers becoming more dangerous. Abuse is not a result of testosterone and extreme sexual need, but of the power, despotism and major problems of the attacker. Public hanging may exacerbate these problems. The Labour Party is committed to bringing these cruel acts to life. But the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen's proposal will not solve any problems. The Labour Party will have a policy to prevent. Pure extinguishment in retrospect can never be the sole solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1481	The right is pleased that a majority in the Committee is opposed to the proposals of the representative Simonsen. We have no faith that these are good measures to combat sexual abuse of children. We in the Right believe that we need to look at other opportunities to prevent sexual abuse, in order to strengthen the competence of personnel dealing with cases of such abuse, as well as ways to help the victim. I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Thorkildsen, who, in his remarks, to which the majority of the committee has joined, describes in a very good way why it is impossible for us to support this. In our remarks, the majority of us show that we want to find offers that can help both the victim and the offender in sexual assault cases. The topic of sexual assault provides a wide range of issues. Children are exposed to abuse by family members or other adults. Children are seriously injured by such abuses, both physically and mentally. We therefore need to put in the resources we have in the professional environments, and not least in the police. The fight against sexual abuse shall undoubtedly remain a priority area in the justice sector. Not least, it is important from the recent reports that one has pointed out that there is a need to strengthen and improve the treatment of sexual assaults. The right is satisfied that a number of measures have been taken in recent years to prevent such abuses, to strengthen the competence of those working on them, and to help victims. The size treated St.meld. No 52 for 2000-2001 on 7 February of this year. This was a very important and good report, which contained proposals for many good measures to strengthen the investigation by the police. In addition, the legal text also cleared up a few years ago, and a number of provisions were tightened. I very much appreciate the fact that the government is now in a position to establish family violence coordinators, and I am looking forward to this coming into place in the first few days in the individual police districts. Through these co-ordinators, we're going to be able to get top skills, for example. child management. Police districts will be provided with valuable competences in matters that are often very difficult to deal with. When a child is a victim, it requires knowledge, means of questioning and proof-keeping that best spares the child in a difficult situation. In addition, it is also important that those in contact with children take responsibility for the detection and reporting of infringements. It is only when there is a report that the police can start their work, but it is also important that professionals are available to understand the child and its relatives through a difficult process. Like the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party are concerned about bringing these cruel acts to life. We do not believe that Simonsen's proposals could contribute to this. In my opinion, the measures proposed are more reprimandous than attempts to help the offenders avoid any further abuse. In order for children to avoid being exposed to such events, we should rather provide good treatment, make use of custody arrangements, and not least have a good follow-up to the offenders. The right is therefore opposed to these proposals, and at the same time hopes that the representative Simonsen will in the future be able to take other measures to combat sexual abuse against children, and not just cough up the same old proposals, which, in my view, would rather be counterproductive, namely to combat these terrible abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1496	There are important themes that are addressed here, and we all agree that sexual abuse against children is abominable acts. It is also gratifying that the entire Committee is united in its desire to prevent sexual abuse. Then the concern is that none of the other parties are the least interested in doing anything concrete to help the situation. As I said, child abuse is cruel acts. It becomes quite incomprehensible, to me at least, that the consideration of the attacker should go ahead of the consideration of the children who may be sexually abused. The argument used by the majority is: If the offender does not want medical treatment, he must of course get rid of it. For the Progress Party, the need to prevent children from being subjected to sexual abuse is greater than protecting the pedophile relapses. Not only does the majority not wish to demand medical treatment for leave and the like, but the majority also want these pedophile repeaters to remain in positions and positions that involve close contact with children. I'm somewhat uncertain whether this is the majority called prevention. The research team suggests that both medical treatment and pedophile should not have positions where they have close contact with children. In school, one shall not have sexual offenders for the sake of the children. But as long as the children are in leisure activities, it's mostly free. This is at best obviously inconsistent. It should be clear that those who provide leisure for children, whether public or private, need to know whether they employ someone who can be dangerous to the children or not. One knows that various overnight stays and camp stays can be places how much special can take place, and then one must at least be able to rely on the people responsible for looking after and caring for the children. As a consequence, the Progress Party proposes that a person should have a register of persons convicted of serious sexual assault against children. We have had situations where families with young children have rented out a secondary apartment to a pedophile, without knowing whether the criminal offences they have committed and, if so, the possibility of repetition. It appears to us as completely incomprehensible that one should not be able to demand to know who a bar entry into the house along with their minor children. And then you have to know this before you get any information because the person has settled in the neighborhood. Having said that, we strongly stress, also in the position, that the measures we are proposing are not an alternative, but an addition to those already practised. It is important that the methods used today continue. But when one clearly sees that they don't work well enough, we have to take the consequences of it and maybe do something more. I don't ignore that even with our proposals we still want a lot done. But it does not exempt from action where anything can be done. It's better to do something effective than nothing. I mean clearly that we're just preventing a few abuses, and then it's worth it from our point of view. So I have to say that I was somewhat surprised at the rapporteur's assessment of what gives the safe society. Well, the safe society is under assessment: the best thing is not to know. So taking away people's knowledge is the SV's way of creating a seemingly safer society. Just people close their eyes, the problem disappears by itself. I hope that's not what SV means. I'm not so sure. At least we want to use the methods by which it can be possible to avoid future abuses, not least in the case of repeaters. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1518	The representative, André Kukkestad, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1521	It is important that we often, perhaps at any time, in different periods of ageing, address just the problems associated with child abuse. Sexual assault is a bad thing. We all agree on that. It is important that we keep the debate and conversation about this living, so that we do not go to sleep and think that everything goes by itself. In that way, I think that the representative Simonsen has made a commendable effort to put this on the agenda again. It's not long since we discussed questions related to the same problem. Personally, I am pleased that at that time we were established a so-called children's cryptos, and I hope that the work there will also be able to give us both knowledge and experience that can help prevent such cruel criminal acts as a sexual assault on children are. However, when the representative Simonsen asks the Government to submit proposals for an action plan, he incorporates seven proposals in this action plan, which I believe the case rapporteur has gone through in a proportionate manner, which also covers the Christian People's Party's thinking on these issues. I just want to approach this in a different way than going into each point. Firstly, the proposer says that something has to be done with the attacker. I agree, but I do not agree with the ways, the prescription or the medicine that is being prescribed. It's true that you have to do something with the attacker, but it has to be done through programs or ways that make him change his mind, his thinking, his attitudes, and get – I had just said – another way of looking at his fellow human beings. This is not done, we believe in the Christian People's Party, by physical intervention. We don't think that's what it takes to change the behavior of an attacker. The other thing that's said is that you have to do something about the punishment. Yes, it may be necessary to do something about the punishment. It's important that we don't lock ourselves in a punishment pattern that we think should be valid forever. Here we have learned so much that we must be willing to look at new ways of dealing with people in the light of the developments we are seeing, perhaps in terms of both cruelty and possibly – I was saying – ‘refined’ methods that an attacker will use. We might have to look at other ways to make the punishment work, but I can't, as the proposals are available here from Simonsen's side, say that the Christian People's Party will join these. We've given reasons for that in the past. And as I said, the case rapporteur has also gone through it. I would therefore simply like to conclude that it is necessary to have an alert eye on this issue raised by the representative Simonsen, and it is important that we do not always reject new approaches in order to try to prevent abuse. Nor do we reject the proposals that are on the table here today, but we want to see both them and others in a context that allows us to take care of what can change the thinking of a person and that can help to give a different and positive approach to the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1536	Sexual assaults against children are crimes that both arouse anger and lead to grief. The fight against sexual abuse shall continue to be given high attention and priority in the field of justice. Sexual assault is a compound type of crime that can affect the victim in several ways. In my view, the fight against sexual abuse and sexualized violence is also a central part of the general effort against violence. Furthermore, such crimes are a very serious violation of the integrity of a person. Children may be seriously harmed by such abuses, both physically and mentally. It is therefore easy to understand the motivation of the proposer to find new means of preventing such crimes. However, the proposals are not new. Several of them were also promoted by the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Progress Party during the review of the provisions of the Criminal Code on Mortality Crime in 2000 cf. Inner. O. No 92 for 1999-2000. They were also rejected. However, I have re-examined the proposals in detail, but I have found that I cannot join the proposals. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs concludes on the position of the Ministry of Justice by not agreeing to the proposals. In my view, several of the proposals could have direct negative consequences for society as a whole, for the victims and their closest and for the convicted. As I see it, the proposals point too much towards some kind of control of the convicted person, which may weaken the prevention work that needs to be done to prevent relapse. A number of measures have been taken in recent years to both prevent sexual abuse and to strengthen the competence of personnel dealing with cases of such abuse, as well as to help victims. The possibility of getting compensation has increased. The right to receive an aid lawyer has been extended to cover victims of several types of abuse. The provisions on residence bans have been strengthened. The same applies to the provisions on restraining visits. Like the committee, I also think it is necessary to look at the work against sexual abuse from an overall perspective. Good growth conditions for children and young people, safe family relationships, well-developed and competent healthcare, sound police and judicial skills and the treatment of others are key factors that help prevent and help those who are exposed to them. In this respect, I have noted the Committee's emphasis on putting in place a well-developed and adequately competent treatment service and on strengthening the protection of workers. Not least, treatment provision for offenders is important both during and after the settlement of prison sentences. In this context, I also notice, if necessary, the desire of the majority of the committee that the Danish system with the possibility of punishing the punishment in a separate institution be assessed by the department. The risk of new criminal offences during prison leave is a concern the ministry is particularly aware of, including in the case of serious sexual abuse against minors. For this category of convicted, it is not least important to carefully assess whether the conditions for leave are met. The Ministry will follow with a view to ensuring that this assessment is carried out in the best possible way. The new provisions of the Chapter of the Criminal Code on Mortality came into force in August 2000 as follows: Ot. pp. No 28 for 1999–2000, om law on changes in criminal law etc. [[sexual offences]] In the light of recent events, inter alia: in Eastfold, where some citizens of a neighbouring society of a pedophile convicted man have expressed their disapproval of the fact that he is living and staying in this community, I am pleased that the majority of the committee is also clearly expressing the disagreement in the proposal to establish a registration system in which pedophiles are registered after a closed settlement and which is open to the public. I do not want to facilitate such arrangements. The most important thing is to further develop measures to enable victims as well as related security to be provided, while at the same time providing conditions for life to be as normal as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1555	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1558	I would ask the President to note that the proposer of a Document No. 8 proposals only have 3 – possibly 3 x 2 – minutes to explain their proposal. It'll get a little bit messy. The Progress Party has presented some proposals which I think are constructive and which are a sort of summary of my proposals. That's why I don't have my own proposals now. I am surprised and disappointed at the passivity of the other parties, perhaps especially of the Right, who have not been able to make any independent proposals that can ensure our children against the invaders, other than to refer to psychiatric treatment, which we know is a method that is not effective. On the right, which previously had clear leads in committee comments and own proposals that went far in the direction of, for example: use of medical treatment, now has joint comments with SV at all points. I notice that the Right, which a year ago was involved in increasing the minimum penalty for rape, now argues against the increase of minimum penalties with the ancient argument from the Ministry of Justice that this will lead to the court absolved the defendant on a dubious basis. This is an argument that can only be used if you have total confidence in the jury system and in the courts in general. It is surprising that this argument is sometimes used, while at other times one skips the argument and still votes for increased minimum penalties. The right also rejects a registration system that can provide parents with information about dangerous pedophiles in their neighbourhoods and thus deprives their parents of the possibility to protect and protect their children when society fails and releases dangerous pedophiles repeaters into society again with minimal control. The least one could expect, at least of the Right, was to go for a mandatory registration scheme – even if it was not open to the public – so that at least the police could keep themselves informed about the residence of the pedophile attacker at all times, and so that it became like in the United States: criminally moving without reporting it. But even nothing like this has had the right imagination to make suggestions about. I record that it is only the Progress Party that takes the need for child protection from pedophiles as seriously as it deserves. The other parties show a much more passive attitude than what they've done in the last four years – now I'm talking about here at Stortinget. I see that as a significant step back. The right approach is now closer to SV's criminal policy than the Progress Party, whereas the opposite was the case earlier. The only positive thing is a note in the Committee that, after all, custody is the best solution to prevent repeaters from committing new crimes. Of course, I agree with that, and I hope that will eventually be the solution. Leave these people in prison, where they belong if they're dangerous, even when they're done with atonement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1574	Both SV and – I assume – the majority of the Judicial Committee are concerned with reactions. We're not naive, but we're concerned that those reactions should be correct. And at least we're concerned that the reactions that society is putting into action don't exacerbate the situation. I can't understand how to outlaw the Internet, so you always know who they are, and where they are, prevent abuse, when we know what happens when you know that someone moves into the neighborhood. It's not like you just think it's okay to give him a chance to show that he's made up his mind, that he's done his punishment. On the contrary, what is happening is that which is completely human and natural, and which I would also have done: one freezes the person you are hunting, and in addition, it is self-treasure. What has happened in the United Kingdom after the so-called Megan Law, is that first of all, it has been discovered that the former convicted offender who has returned from prison has been attacked. We have experienced that the wrong person has been attacked, and we have experienced that the family of the one who has been released has been attacked. I don't think that's right. I think we're going to have a principle that means that you have the opportunity to make up for yourself in this society. If, on the other hand, it is that one considers it in such a way that he should not be released into society again because he will not be able to deal normally with children, but be a danger to the children, he should not be out in society. I just can't understand how, for example. electronic monitoring of these people should be able to help. Anyone can be assaulted anywhere. It's not that it's just if he approaches a kindergarten, that it would make sense with an alarm. Those abuses can happen anywhere. On the contrary, it can actually lead to new abuses because you never get the opportunity to re-establish yourself. One of the main factors in abuse is solitude. If a person considered fit to be released is never given the opportunity to establish a normal life, the chance of new abuses will increase. The point is, we have to have reactions, but they have to be right, and then we have to have good judgements as to whether or not people can be released into our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1587	It was last Sunday on TVNorway at «Arve Juritzen direkt», an interview with a pedophile attacker who stood out with a full name, just before he was about to be released from prison. He did this because he had understood the point, that then people know where he's now going to live, who he is, what he looks like, and that he's a threat. He does not want to be a threat himself, but his psyche is such that he is a danger to the children in the neighborhood. Therefore, he himself wanted to have the social control of parents and others, who in that way can help him so that he does not have the opportunity to criminalise the children of others. It's about helping parents protect their children. What is the actual alternative to this? Yeah, that's what's going on today. It's that dangerous robbers sneak around the neighborhood and secretly lure children into sexual activity without anyone knowing about it. It can then be years before these children dare to tell their parents or others. That's what you really have. But this proposal, and I'd like to say that, is necessary only because you haven't been willing to do what you should do, to provide for a better protection or storage of dangerous pedophile relapse criminals. Today, it is, and it has been for many years, that people have been sentenced to a sentence and security – and that is because the courts have thought that they are a danger to their environment when they leave prison – but then the prison sentence has not been such that they have had to be in prison. No then, they've been out under the control of criminal protection in freedom in some form of shelter, or even in some cases in their own apartments, with relatively good opportunities to move on their own in society and be a threat to the children. So, in recent years, society has not been willing to secure against dangerous pedophile repeaters. It should have been. That is my – and I know that it is also the lead position of the Progress Party. Of course, it is also the use of the new custody system, or as a former use of prison plus custody in a much more effective way than has been done so far. As long as the majority of the Storing want these people to go out among us, even though they are dangerous to our children, at least parents must have an opportunity to protect their children when we – the politicians – are not willing to take our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1596	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2780]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1612	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1619	The size shall now address a proposal concerning the increase of catch quotas for seals in those areas where the coastline poses a threat to biodiversity and the ecological balance of nature. This is an important proposal that should be implemented as soon as possible. I am pleased to say that an overall committee supports the intentions of the proposal, and that an overall committee asks the Government to investigate and promote proposals for solutions to coastal problems as soon as possible. In its opinion, the Committee calls for an assessment to be made in such an investigation of increased coastal fishing quotas, the introduction of financial subsidies for coastal fishing and the possibility of processing and selling of seal products. There is no doubt that this is an important issue for the fishing industry, both in terms of the resource situation and the quality of the fish being taken up. The Committee makes it clear that if the coastal population is not better controlled, it could be a threat to the fishing industry and therefore to coastal settlement. At the same time, the Committee is committed to maintaining the population of all species, including coastal zones, at a sustainable level. We have received many enquiries from fishermen and other inhabitants along the whole coast who are very concerned about the ever-increasing numbers of souls, and who tell us that the fjords are full of seals, but that the fish are largely gone. We who live in such areas can fully confirm this. It is a problem that the quality of fish caught in such areas is often severely impaired. This is because the large quantities of sells spread what we call kweiss, which is a parasite that stays in the fish meat. The Committee shall have, inter alia: has been obtained from the Sametinget, which indicates that the stock of seals in the Sami coastal and fjord areas has doubled in a few years and that these fjords are now almost empty for fish. It is also said from Sametinget that the problem of weaning has led some fish buyers not to accept fish from such areas. The Committee is concerned that a sufficient number of qualified catchers must be recruited in order not to stop the necessary take-off of the cell due to the lack of qualified crews. It is also important that suitable vessels can be equipped for such capture and in the number necessary. That is why, like the proposer, the Committee has called for an assessment of the need for financial support for coastal fishing. The Committee is also concerned that the high-value products represented by selenium must be used in a good and profitable way and that the established instrument must assist enterprises that will invest in the processing and sale of cell products. It is known that there is an interest in such production in several places in the country, and from the Sametinge, reference is made to the products for which this resource can be used, products with rich traditions. I want to express once again my satisfaction with the fact that a joint committee is behind this setting. This is a very important matter which cannot be governed by emotion, but which must be governed by the reality that marine mammals play an important role in marine ecosystems. As in the case of other living resources, the surplus of these populations must be harvested. I hope that the Council of State and the Government will give very high priority to the work on this important matter, so that the necessary action can be taken quickly. I finally put forward the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1649	I thank the proposer for his initiative to raise this matter. Let me also add that I am fully committed to the observations made by the rapporteur in his statement. This is really an over-mature matter to grips with. We have seen that Norwegian self-governing has not only gone completely on the ground, but that people with knowledge are a dying race, which has meant that we were unable to take out more than 49 pst in the last year. of the allocated quota, with the consequences this has had both in terms of the lack of ecological balance and in terms of the fact that the selenium – in this case it is stone copper and yard – takes out so much of the biomass that this results in an economic poor development, in particular for the coastal fleet. As the rapporteur rightly referred to, selenium does not just take out biomass and make life sour for coastal fishermen, but this has significant consequences in terms of poor quality of fish as a result of parasite growth. I have also taken note of the initiative taken earlier by the Minister for Fisheries to focus attention on fishing and to build up fishing capacity in relation to coastal stock. It's affordable, because for many, many years we've been spectators that the population has more or less uncontrollably grown in numbers, with the damage it has actually done, especially for the coastal fleet. When we have such an ecological imbalance that we have in parts of the coast of Norway, we also see the damage that the selenium causes to the tares forest – or lack of such. That is why the initiative of the proposer is price-effective, and I feel that the department is now taking serious action to ensure that we are at least able to take out the quota that has been set, i.e. 5 pst. of the countable transparent mass as a minimum take-off. For this reason, the Committee has made a very clear reference to the measures that it wants to take in the form of increased quotas, but also in the form of economic incentives that enable a better balance to be struck. It is simply a win-win situation, not just for the fishing industry. And if you succeed, I especially ask the Council of State to contribute to the fact that those who are on and work actively today with the further use of sales can have an opportunity to make sure that there is no problem in itself that you don't know what to do with the part of the sales quota that you can catch. Then this becomes a positive case. In the past, the right has interpelled about the cell problem, not only in relation to the coastal zone, but mainly in terms of sales around the Barents Sea. We hope that also this Document No. The 8 proposal can help us achieve a better and greater eco-balance. We need that, and not least the coastal fishing link needs a better and greater balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1662	Coastal populations in the Oslo basin are increasing at risk, while fishing resources are greatly reduced. There may be several reasons for this. Nevertheless, it is beyond doubt that the increased incidence of cells contributes to the almost empty eastern part of the fjord. The quota proposals for fisheries research for the Oslo soil in 2002 are based on scientific recommendations, on the basis of population figures. The figures for August 2000 were 320 animals, in addition to 160 animals just above the borders of Sweden, which are probably part of a relatively large population on the Swedish side, estimated to be at least 2600 stone copper. Although many cells are drawn from Swedish waters, it has no significance for the size of the cutting quotas. The Norwegian authorities base their stock estimates on setting the quota. On the route from Lista to the Swedish border, it is set to 24 animals. It's almost even with nothing. When it is born approx. 200 soles a year, monges it a little. Although not everyone is growing up, there is a widespread perception that there must be a far tougher tax on Brigitte Bardot's pet if it is to be possible to restore the ecological balance of the sea. Only in the Torbjørnskjær area there are between 500 and 800 animals, and the inner Oslofjorden Fischerlag believes the Norwegian-Swedish tribe comprises more than 2,600 animals. North of Drøbak is the tribe of approx. 100 animals. Both the Coastal Manager of the Directorate of Fisheries in Eastfold and the Regional Director of the Directorate of Fisheries feel that it is unproblematic to increase taxation to 50 animals per year as part of the establishment of an appropriate tax system. Furthermore, it is important to establish cross-border measures. When the annual sales quota for Oslofjord is set at as low as 24 animals, it becomes problematic to make full use of it. Here it is important to establish practical and economic arrangements so that it can work. The sale in Eastfold has been organised with hunting teams, but with a completely microscopic fishing quota it is difficult to obtain economics in this. Earlier, as the allowances were larger, the possibilities of obtaining a certain income increased. The meat is, among other things, the meat. have been supplied to restaurants in Oslo. It is gratifying that an overall committee is of the opinion that the set-aside quotas are too low and that the stock may come out of control when only some animals are taken out of the quotas that are already marginal. When researchers recognise that stocks can withstand significantly stronger withdrawals, they should all be able to increase fishing quotas. The investigation with proposals that the Stortinget requires the Government to carry out may provide a good basis for this. The Progress Party believes that it should not take all the world's time to come up with concrete proposals on action by the Ministry. Significant numbers are available today. As far as Oslofjord is concerned, more realism is added to the assessments resulting from the introduction of catch quotas at a much higher level. Continue to add up to a catch of 1-2 pst. of the total number in this area, you distance yourself from reality. And both environment and fishermen will end up losing if that's the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1677	I should probably not take the floor on a matter where, for once, we were quite a few in the committee in relation to what is involved in fisheries management, but there are some negative reactions to the committee's position, so I'll do it anyway. For SV, the starting point of the fisheries management, as in any other management, is that the management should be sustainable. This is also the emphasis of the Committee on the assumption that marine mammals are part of the marine ecosystem, as pointed out by the spokesperson for the cause, and on the emphasis being placed on the need to exploit the surplus of the resource. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that it cannot demonstrate that the growing coastal stock poses any threat to biological deficiency. The government also writes that researchers have pointed out that the stock can take a much larger quota. I have to admit that this is some kind of argument that I have a very strong sense of. Because when we decide that natural resources should be the basis of our lives, we also have to manage this resource on the basis of precisely this knowledge – not feelings and not ideology, but knowledge. Not all parts of the administration are asking for the impact of being based on knowledge, unfortunately, but I'm going to leave it at this point. Instead, I would like to stress that the fisheries management is an area where we need more knowledge and more research. As we sit in this room, we still need a better basis for decision-making. But SV is not in favour of increasing coastal catch, because we believe that there is too simple a solution to the biggest challenge facing this industry, namely the resource situation for several of our most important species. This is not the solution to that problem. We have other solutions to it. Selenium is not the bad guy in the fisheries management. He's a part of the ocean's ecosystem, and we have to treat him like that. So for us, the starting point is that it's the science that can give us an answer. That's what's at the root of our position -- not feelings. The fact is that the population of coastline is so robust that he tolerates a larger outlet, and then we go for it. I look forward to the Council of State returning to Stortinget with this matter. I hope that the Council of State can also focus on assessing and looking at what kind of action you can take in relation to this industry that improves profitability, and which is not just about direct economic instruments, but, as Kristiansen was about, about the relationship to the third paragraph and further processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1694	The representative Swensen addresses an important problem through the proposal we are dealing with today. The Industry Committee stands united in this matter, and I agree, of course, with what the rapporteur said in his statement. We have an incredibly long coastline in this country, also in the state from which I come, and the problem of coastline always comes on the agenda when we meet with the coastal population, yes, it is some who put the matter at the head and wonder if in the future it is only the coastline that is to populate the island communities, after the fish has either disappeared or is so contaminated by mercury that it cannot be used. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it can sometimes be reasonable to listen to those who have the problem right outside the living room door and who work and live by harvesting the sea. Furthermore, it is a fact that the seaweed forest is strongly submerged several places along the coast, and the coastline is suspected of being involved in contributing to this. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Environmental Protection have launched a process to clarify the reasons for the disappearance of the tare forest in some areas. We all agree that the harvest of all living resources in the sea must be balanced. It can't be that we just harvest the fish stocks, we also have to harvest the cell stock. At the same time, we must maintain that the population of all species, including coastal zones, must be maintained at a sustainable level. As it is now, there is too little catch in the Norwegian cell stock. This may pose a threat to the fishing industry, as overstocks of coastal salmon may go beyond both catch levels and fish quality. The reasons for being caught too little of the coast can be more. Firstly, the Ministry of Fisheries, as we have already heard, has informed that only 49 pst. Coastal shedding quotas were exploited in 2001. I am therefore pleased that the department has started work on identifying measures that will allow a larger part of the quota to be taken. The work of getting more qualified catchers is important here, and I think it's great that the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' Federation has just picked up this glove. In addition, the Committee is of the opinion that coastal allowances are initially too low in relation to the cell stock. Here it is enough to point out to the researchers that the stock can withstand much larger quotas, as the Council of State has also pointed out. An overall committee has also pointed out that there is a clear objective of making more profitable use of the value of the cell products and indicates that the established instrument should be used to achieve this. Finally, on this basis, the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1713	I would first of all like to thank the Economic and Social Committee for its thorough, sensible and, not least, necessary consideration of this proposal for measures to facilitate coastal fishing and to increase coastal fishing quotas in those areas where coastal farming poses a threat to ecological diversity and the ecological balance of nature. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Arnesen, who has done a very good job in this matter. The background to my promotion of this proposal is inter alia: the damage that the seller has done and does along large sections of the Norwegian coast — something I have personal experience with — so that the quality of fish is still impaired. In addition, the selenium supplies itself roughly with the fish, and the quality then deteriorates, as we have seen a sharp deterioration over many years. In this respect, it can be said that the fish is being fished from the large quantities of seals that have built up over time, and we are constantly getting worse and worse in fish. In addition, the damage that the harness causes to the fisherman and breeder. Selenium is in the whole a typical nutritional opportunist, in which it is a predator on a wide range of fish species, and in addition it often scares fish away over large areas. These conditions must be a clear indication that the cell stock has now grown beyond an acceptable level and that it is therefore necessary to introduce more effective measures to mitigate the growth and reduce the number. In this unacceptable situation, it is widely agreed on a fisheries team that the desired objective is best achieved through significantly higher taxation. According to information provided by Inner Oslofjord Fiskerlag, there is evidence to suggest that it is near and realistic to estimate the inner oslofjord population to over 1000 animals, and there is in fact reason to believe that it is underestimated. As has been said before, only 24 animals are allowed to be killed, and it goes without saying that there will be an unsustainable situation. For me, it's a paradox that the cell stock has become so large – even in the interior of Oslofjord – that it's on its way up the Lion Hill before we get to do something real about the problem. This is a problem that has been confronting in coastal communities for many years. It is also worth noting that the Committee has come to the conclusion that an economic compensation for coastal fishing needs to be introduced. If you want to make use of this resource and get the necessary tax, you depend on getting an economic compensation. First of all, I believe that minimum financial compensation must be introduced for the veterinary costs incurred in placing the meat on the market. It is absolutely necessary to have profitability in the placing on the market of sales meat. It is important that the state contributes to stimulating actors to find the interesting and commercial use of this resource. With this in mind, I believe that the Economic and Social Committee has supported the intentions of my proposal, and therefore I support the Committee's recommendation. I would also like to say that it is nice to see that the Minister for Fisheries is in the Chamber. If I know him right, this proposal is in his spirit. And I suppose this is a proposal that is not put into the drawer, but that it will be expedated quickly!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1732	The President will allow himself to point out that the Minister for Fisheries has to be in the Chamber! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1735	I can assure the President that there are some duties that are dearer to me than others. I also think it's a pleasure to be here, and I think it's nice – like the proposer. I am also very pleased that the committee and the speakers here today are so in agreement with the desire to reduce the damage to sales, while at the same time wanting to maintain viable stocks. It's completely in line with the vision that I've had and that I still have. I also think it is important to stress what others have been about, and as I have explained in my letter, that the current management system is directly based on the knowledge we have about the development and ecology of the populations. I agree with the case rapporteur that the purpose of ensuring viable stocks of cephalopods and oats in the respective distribution areas is important, while taking into account the problems created by selenium for coastal fishermen with damage to gear, loss of catch, spread of parasites and impact on the size and behaviour of fish stocks. All of this also has an impact on the housing pattern in the next round. The stock of coastlines is counted, as I have explained in the letter, every five years. You roll between counting the population of the yard and the population of the stone copper. In the case of gardening, the centre of that census is currently in place, and it is assumed that it will be completed during 2002. So far it seems as if it's more plentiful now than at the previous count. In the case of stone copper, the last count was recorded in 1998, and a new count will be made, starting early 2003. The results of the censuses so far will be used for the new allowance determinations, and I hope that this will provide the basis for increased allowances in 2003. However, in my view, it is not always the case that there are necessarily increased quotas of coastline that are the solution to the problem. Unfortunately, the problem is many places so that the number of animals for which the regulations are open is not taken out. And as was also said, you have areas and species where it is actually taken out only half of the quotas that are left. The first challenge is to take the allowances that are already set. It will help significantly. The last count of the yard and the stone copper indicates, as I said, that both stocks are in good condition, and that they are growing. I hope it will provide the basis for increased catches. The Government will assess, in the context of the establishment of regulations for 2003, and in the light of the scientific recommendations, whether to increase coastal allowances. And I can assure you, among other things. The representative Hedstrøm that I want to pay particular attention to the Eastfold coast and the Oslofjord area, where today there is only a quota of 24 animals. Here you have a cross-border population, and it complicates the census. It's a relationship that we have to assess whether enough has been taken into account. As far as the second proposal is concerned, namely the introduction of financial subsidies for the capture of coastlines, we should of course consider it. But I would like to say that I think that such a scheme can give significant negative results that we also have to include. The basis for continuing and further developing our hunting traditions is that society in general accepts hunting. If that hunt has to be maintained through subsidies, I'm not sure it's beneficial to get an acceptance for it. I believe it is crucial for the hunter's reputation and future that the distinction between damages, which can justify an economic compensation, and general hunting is highlighted. Furthermore, previous experience suggests that such schemes pose major control problems if taxpayers’ money is to be used for it. In the department, we believe it is important to try to facilitate the sale and recruitment of hunters in order to get a better outreach. Among other things, we will seek to contribute to simpler procedures – we have done so this year, and this results – for those who want to participate in coastal hunting. We will also further consider opening up a more general access to shooting sales that are causing damage. It is a significant problem, so if there can be a solution there, I will contribute to it. It was referred to that the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishermen's Associations are active in this area, and I hope that what they will present during the May month will be a constructive contribution to increasing quota withdrawals. As for the representative of Kristiansen, who took up the harness in a larger context, I just want to show that when the catch in the East and West ice is over, I'm going to start a job and evaluate it to see if we can increase the take-off of that catch as well, because it turns out to be too low in relation to the quotas we have. And the totality of the marine mammal problem is important to care for whether we're talking about the coastline or we're talking about the other. Moreover, I can assure you that this matter is of high priority to the Minister for Fisheries, and that when next year's quotas are to be set, I will take with me the committee position and the views that have come here today, which are, moreover, consistent with my own opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2780]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1771	We are then ready for voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1778	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anne Helen Rui on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, from Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to locate the new rescue helicopter base on the Northwest of Vigra.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1802	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to maintain and continue the rescue helicopter base on Banak.’ The Central Party and the Coastal Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1841	The Coast Party has announced its support for the suspension. The President has come to understand that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1881	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gunn Karin Gjul on behalf of the Workers' Party and Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider whether some of the proposals for non-discrimination between cohabitants and spouses under the settings of the Samboerverkommission and the Inheritance Tax Committee can be retroactively applied to the submission of the nomination of the Inheritance Tax Committee, 5 May 2000.’ The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1907	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for non-discrimination of cohabitants and spouses as soon as possible under the settings of the Sambo Committee and the Inheritance Tax Committee. The proposal must give residents the right to remain in the same state of residence and exemption from inheritance tax. Cohabitants shall be considered as cohabitants who have lived together for at least two years before the death of the first deceased or who have children in common.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1913	The proposal is also supported by the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-05-16.ana.ud237e1943	During the debate, Mr Kvakkestad put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. The President will vote on all three proposals at one time. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to enable persons convicted of serious sexual assault against children to follow a medical treatment/castration programme in order to obtain leave or otherwise to be released into custody.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals so that persons convicted of serious sexual assault against children lose the right to hold positions/reliances involving close contact with children.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals for the establishment of a register of persons convicted of serious sexual crimes against children.’
