ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e53	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odelstingen meeting in the evening – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e58	I suggest Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e63	Karin Andersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Karin Andersen is unanimously elected president of the Odelstinget meeting tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e77	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Kenneth Svendsen – the case’s rapporteur, Thore A. Nistad is a member of the Lagginget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e88	The government has studied dot load systems in England, Sweden, Finland, Germany and France without being able to draw any conclusions. There is no evidence that peak loads have increased road safety and fewer accidents in some of these countries. Nevertheless, the Government considers that a dot system will result in 50–100 fewer traffic damage/kills per person. in Norway. I want to show that there are hundreds of violations of the Norwegian Road Traffic Act on a daily basis. These are usually done without consequences for those who violate traffic rules. If the dot system is introduced, only pro-miles of the cases in which the dot act is performed will lead to the dot being given. With a withdrawal threshold of eight dots, withdrawal of driving licences will occur very rarely. They don't happen to be taken as much as four times in three years. It is highly doubtful whether the Government achieves the expected 1,200 withdrawals of driving licences assumed by the Government. Therefore, in order to make the dot regime work, there is no reason to be surprised if, after a few years, the Government proposes to reduce the threshold for withdrawal from eight to, for example, five or three dots. It will primarily be the professional drivers who are affected, because they are at greatest risk of being caught in the event of a failure. The system allows the dots to be deleted after three years. For a normal passenger car with a journey distance of 12,000 kilometres per year, the dots will be erased on average after 36,000 kilometres of driving. For a professional driver, the dot will not be deleted until after several hundred thousand kilometres of driving. Since everyone sometimes violates traffic rules, it would be pointless to say that you can't break the rules. In its hearing opinion, the LO also noted the injustice that lies not only in the fact that the risk of detection for drivers over three years is enormously high in relation to other road users, but also that withdrawal of driving licences after eight dots is much more serious for a professional driver than for others. There is cause for concern about traffic accidents, but the notorious bullies can be vented with today's system without dots. It, together with better driver training and better road standards, will be more correct and effective than the insertion of driving licences according to such random criteria as are contained in the proposal. There is also cause for concern about legal security aspects, by the fact that dots can be applied without the possibility for the licence holder to complain or to have the application of the dot assessed. It is surprising that the Government proposes this on the basis of schemes in five other European countries, where there is no evidence that the pick-up system has had any effect on road safety improvement. Unfortunately, the majority have also not cared about what really kills in traffic — the one that kills, among other things. is on the front page of the Evening Post today, which shows the savings you could have made by investing in a proper road network, as in the former E18. What was formerly a dead end, because of investments in a better way now, has not required a single death sacrifice. This is the right way to go to really save lives. But the majority doesn't do anything about it. I assume that those who have the majority here will themselves promote their proposal. I just warn you that we will vote against the proposal for a decision, with the exception of B, which concerns an increase in funding for Safe Traffic for 2003 of 2 million. kr to secure the school roads. As I said before, we will vote against the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e110	Since the case spokesperson represents the minority in this case, I will, in the first place, briefly do good for the matter we handle. The government is doing Ot. pp. No 71 proposals to amend the Road Traffic Act so as to allow for the introduction of dot loads on driver cards and their withdrawal on such a basis. There are the following four types of lawbreaks that will lead to dot load: Infringement of speed rules in contravention of traffic lightsignalling with fixed or flashing red light unlawfully bypassing and breaching mandatory rules The violation of the rules shall be registered mainly with two dots. There are suggestions that one should be notified by the police about each individual dot load, and after one has received six dots. The driving licence is issued for six months when an individual has received eight dots during a 3-year period. The government claims that the measure could mean that the number of casualties and fatalities in traffic could be reduced by 50-100 per year. This builds, among other things, on a report from the Transport Economic Institute, TØI. The government calculates that approx. 1,200 driver cards will be charged annually as a result. Various proposals for a dot load system have been made for approximately two years. 20 years without it having appeared in life before. This is presumably due to the fact that it is difficult to assess the effect of such a measure. Now the matter has been put forward, and in most parties we have been through a rather extensive discussion of the matter. In the Workers' Party, we are very concerned about road safety. There, increased efforts lead to less suffering for people and to a reduction in the cost to society, we put forward. It is most likely that anything that can be tried must or should be tried. On the other hand, it is important that the actions we take and the resources used provide the best possible results. It is only when a measure reduces traffic damage and kills that a measure makes sense. With this as the starting point, the Labour Party was at first rather lukewarm to the proposal. Especially disturbing to us was that none of the countries that have introduced the system could show any visible effect on her. When we also know many schemes that we know help, including: Several police controls on off-road road sections and measures aimed at children, we doubted whether this was a good proposal. In addition, this system can only give effect — people are more cautiously running out of fear of getting two or more dots, possibly of fear of losing the certificate as they approach eight dots, and thus harming and killing fewer people in traffic — if people are taken into dangerous traffic and illegal behaviour as mentioned in the proposition. I have been driving a car for 35 years, and I have been drawing speed control twice. I know a few who have been taken several times in a few years. In other words, there has to be an inevitable condition attached to the proposal: several traffic syndications have to be detected. That way, more dots will appear and more people will lose the certificate. Then the system will have meaning. There is no right practice trying to reduce the costs of the public. We have been doing this in the Labour Party for many years. In this work, we have discovered that it is easy to create bureaucracy, that it almost has a self-enhancing effect, and that it is very difficult to reduce it again. At the same time, it is important, as I have already mentioned, that the money for traffic control is used as efficiently as possible, that we get a lot of suffering and saved lives out of the licenses. This means that we in the Working Party want to reduce the extra costs of establishing and operating this new dot load system by 20-30 pst. If this proves to be too small, it is a better option to expand it if it seems absolutely necessary than trying to reduce the number of options, etc. after a year or two. Released funds — and a little more — we want to use the well-documented measures described above. Safe Traffic currently has a very strenuous economy. The Labour Party has commented on this in the revised national budget, and we ask that the Minister of Transport, in cooperation with the State Road Administration, find solutions to prevent the successful completion of the project. The Labour Party has invited the rest of the committee to join in asking the Government to come back with a proposal for an increase of 2 million. SEK to Safe Traffic next year to improve the safety of schoolchildren. We are very pleased that a number in the Committee support this, and have suggested that the money be added. Unfortunately, we do not receive full support to increase the rights of police control by 5 million. kr. Here it's just the Center Party and the Workers' Party that will commit themselves. The same applies to proposals for a reduction of additional expenditure by 20-30 pst. in the case of the introduction of the dot-load system. I'm surprised that the government is coming to Stortinget with such a controversial case and has nothing to offer to get a reasonable plurality. I think this is a matter that would light up a clearer and wider plurality. As the government party showed minimal willingness to negotiate, we stand here. I don't think this promises good for future cooperation. This is a case where the Government and their party here on the Storting cannot count on support from the Progress Party, which we have already heard. We in the Workers' Party would like to get multiples for things, but then we expect to be taken more seriously than we feel we have been in this matter. But we therefore support a change in the Road Traffic Act so that the King can give instructions on the introduction of a dot load system. Then it's up to the Department to create a system that's as effective as possible – that is, that the sinners are taken, and that they lose their driver card if they don't tighten up – and a system that becomes as unbureaucratic and cost-effective as possible. Closing! We're going to follow along. I would like to take up the suggestions we have made in the setting on behalf of the Centre Party and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e157	Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfeldt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e160	This is about saving human lives and avoiding many human tragedies. There are too many who go away too quickly, or who get their lives ruined. We also know what this is doing with the immediate family. We have many tools to reduce the number of accidents, including: the improvement of the road network and other preventive measures. For the Right, getting more security and security on the road is a very important thing. That's why we're in favour of this arrangement, like, among other things. gives a stronger response to repeat offenders. That's what matters in this case. The Government proposes to amend the Road Traffic Act in order to establish a basis for the introduction of the pick-up charge on driving licences and their withdrawal on such a basis. The aim of the proposal is to improve road safety and to provide a simpler and more efficient system of response to repeat offenders. We want strict, predictable responses to drivers, which repeatedly show a lack of respect for legislation and care for the safety of their own and other road users. Punctuality of driving licences is an effective measure in the field of road safety, and many European countries have introduced such a system. Critics of the scheme claim that there is no evidence of any effect of dot stress. It's true enough, it's not easy to draw out one measure to indicate a concrete effect. That's the sum of all the measures we put in to prevent, we have to look at. I believe in this measure, and I would like to refer to TØI Report 446/1999 ‘Better road safety in Norway’, which states that the scheme could reduce the accident risk by 5 pst. among drivers affected, and given an annual reduction of about 90 injured or killed. The individual driver will be more careful in his daily driving. In these football seasons I'll refer to an example. In a football game, one of the players gets yellow cards. The yellow card will sharpen the player. He knows that at the next rough strike it becomes red short. That's something he wants to avoid. That's how I think the dot system is going to work. It will have a mission effect. The aim of all of us must be to increase road safety and reduce the number of people killed and injured in road traffic. What is taken into account in the implementation of this scheme? Particular attention has been paid to the simplicity and consistency between accident risks and those related to dot stress. As a starting point, it is assumed that only relatively few and easily detectable misdemeanors should be able to provide a dot load basis. The criminal offences shall be serious traffic offences, but not so serious as to qualify for withdrawal of the licence at the time of the first infringement. Specific criminal offences within the following categories of road traffic offences will have a peak impact following the current draft regulation: speed overrun in violation of traffic signal with fixed or flashing lights with red unauthorised pass-by violation of mandatory exit rules In order for the infringement to give rise to a peak impact, the ratio shall be required to be determined by a final judgment, a proposal adopted or a simplified proposal adopted. Each infringement shall be recorded with two dots, with the exception of speed infringements in the lower reaches of the scope of the scheme. These should be recorded with a dot. A multi-infringement act shall be recorded with the sum of the dots indicated for the individual infringements. The registration shall be carried out in a central register which will be managed by the Directorate of Roads. The register shall be accessible only to the police and the road authorities. Withdrawal of the driving licence will occur if the driver has worn eight or more dots during a three-year period. The withdrawal period will be six months. I want to be so honest and say that we've been in doubt about the usefulness of another new system, with more bureaucracy. But when we look at all the professional bodies that are in favour of this system, and that clarify that this has a preventive effect, yes, then the Right is in favour of the system. We also see Norwegian Automobile Association, which is the motorists' association, agree to this, and so do Safety Traffic and most police districts. We must have a system that is simple and as bureaucratic as possible, while at the same time ensuring the legal certainty of the individual. I hope that this system will respond to the expectations and goals we have for traffic, namely to bring down the number of dead and injured and to put an end to the drivers who are still taking chances and who are again putting their own and others' lives at risk. The government parties are opposed to the proposal to grant 2 million. SEK to Safe Traffic. We do not do this because we are not interested in supporting Safe Traffic, but we do so because in our opinion it does not fit into this case. This is not a matter in a revised budget, and it is not a matter in a government budget. This is a matter that concerns the point loading of driving licences. We will assess Safety Traffic when we come to the State budget for 2003. We think Safe Traffic is doing a great job, and then we'll evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e203	We have assessed this matter in the light of the zero vision. The zero vision is a vision that transport should not lead to death, life-threatening damage or permanent loss of health. It aims to eliminate all serious adverse effects caused by traffic accidents and/or environmental problems caused by traffic. This is a long-term vision. It's comparable to a rainbow. Those of us who have tried to go and look for where the rainbow ends, have gone and seen that we can get close, but no one has yet found the end of the rainbow. But it's nice to stretch for. At the same time, everyone who has seen the rainbow will agree that it is beautiful. So in this case, the zero vision is a rainbow vision. We may never reach it, but it's beautiful. It's a good compass to steer for, and it's worth stretching to save lives. If we're going to take the zero vision seriously, we also have to make some value choices. We have to say that saving life and health is more important than other considerations. In view of this, we have assessed the proposal on dot load. The impact on employment is one of the many measures proposed when presenting the zero vision. We know that many have said that it's not the world's most popular response, but then we get to use the vision as a guide, and then we get to say that this is more important than other things. The police have convinced us in their argument that this has a preventive effect. We see that the big traffic jams, which may have looked a little unfairly many times in the media to be young men between the ages of 18 and 25, have moved to be ‘young men’ between the ages of 25 and 55 with an adventurous willingness to pay taxes in order to be allowed to drive too fast. It's these we're going to live with the dot load system. I am also pleased that the Government has listened in another matter that has been important in terms of road safety. We don't get trailers that are 25,25 meters long, on Norwegian roads. SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party have each given special advice to the Government in this matter, and we are pleased that those advices have been followed, so that we do not have to get these mastodons on the roads. I think it's important to remember that, because this is also an area where we have to use the vision that we don't want more traffic accidents, and we say no to that proposal. I am also happy that in connection with this case we received an extra grant for Safe Traffic. In the SV proposal for a State budget, we put down $3 million. kr more to the organisation than the majority did. That is why I am pleased that in this case we can get an increase in support of the important prevention work, especially for children and young people, who are engaged in safe traffic. No matter what we had to get from technical devices, no matter what we had to do in terms of technical security, we won't go further if we can't integrate attitudes to road safety. This testifies to the willingness to bet on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e216	The damage statistics for Norwegian roads are frightening. 83 people lost their lives and 3,381 people were injured on Norwegian roads from January to April this year. According to the Central Statistical Office, this is the highest rate of injury in the ten-year period 1993-2002. To a significant extent, accidents are associated with high speed. Neither admonition nor criminal threats appear to help. The IP reports an increase in the number of driving licences seized of 23 p.m. to date in relation to the same period last year – despite fewer controls. The number of injured persons on Norwegian roads is the highest in 10 years, while the Stortinget has adopted a zero vision for road traffic fatalities. We all agree that the goal is to realize this vision step by step. It is the sum of individual measures that bring us closer to the goal of zero damage or killing in traffic, and in the Christian People's Party we believe that the system of dot load is such an important step on the way to the goal. There is a minority of road users who pose a major threat to their environment. Traffic security is, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, an area in which one must strictly comply with the rule of doing the most important thing first. The Christian People's Party, together with the majority of the Committee, believes that the dot load system will have a noticeable deterrent effect, and we see clear advantages in getting transparent rules in this area where a minority of road users have dangerous behaviour towards themselves and their fellow passengers. It is also certain that success should be achieved in this area, standing and falling a lot with the level of police surveillance on the roads. It may seem that the grievances do not perceive arguments other than just the risk of meeting the police and getting caught. The Christian People's Party wants strict, predictable responses to drivers who repeatedly show disrespect for the legislation. Lack of care for the safety of own and other road users is very serious. At the same time, it is important to have a system that is easily understandable to road users and easy to enforce for the police. The Christian People's Party believes that this can be achieved by the proposal for a dot load. A dot load system can help reduce undesirable traffic behaviour, increase road safety for road users and reduce fatalities and damage to road traffic. TØI’s calculations show that the imposition of dot load can reduce the number of injuries and fatalities in traffic by 50 to 100 people each year. There is a lot of suffering and great damage that can be avoided. The loss of life and health in traffic is a major social problem. A wide range of instruments are required in road safety work on the part of society, but the responsibility for reducing road accidents lies with individual road users. It is therefore important to impose penalties on those who are still in breach of traffic rules. The proposal for a point load system is limited to serious infringements of road traffic legislation but is not so serious as to qualify for withdrawal of the licence at the time of the first infringement. According to the proposal, the following four types of infringements would lead to a nitre impact: ‘traffic speed’ running in violation of traffic light signal with fixed or flashing red light unlawful pass-by infringements of mandatory rules; The proposal is a follow-up to St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 National transport plan 2002-2011, and I also refer to Innst. S. No 119 for 2000-2001 in this context, highlighting the need for effective action to be taken against traffic risk behaviour. It is emphasised that it is particularly important to have systems that deliver concrete results to drivers who, in the event of repeated infringements of road traffic legislation, show a lack of respect for legislation and care in relation to the safety of their own and other road users. I would like to point out that, in his hearing on dot load, the Riksadvokat points out the following: ‘This reaction is likely to have a significant preventative effect and is therefore appropriate to influence driving behaviour. This, in turn, will help to reduce the number of hazardous and harmful situations.» The majority of the opposing bodies represent drivers’ or interests in the road transport industry. Their main objection is that a dot load system proposed would lead to a greater risk of professional ban on drivers and operators in the Norwegian transport sector, and that, therefore, consideration should be given both to the fact that drivers are driving significantly more than private cars and to their need for the driving licence. In the Christian People's Party we agree with the department's assessment. The Ministry points out that it is particularly important that those who spend the most time and run the most on the road network comply with the rules in force. They would otherwise pose a significant risk to themselves and to other road users. There is therefore no reason to have specific rules for professional drivers in relation to reactions to infringements of the Road Traffic Act. No other countries with a dot load system have found any reason to have such specific arrangements. The party of progress is the only party against this system. At my discretion, the opposition of the Progress Party comes in a somewhat strange light when it is followed up by UP's statistics on driving licences seized in the first four months of this year. I can also refer to the Address Paper of 10 June, that is to say yesterday, which quotes both the Safety Traffic and the Norwegian Automobile Association: "The drivers have lost respect for the speed limits and are increasingly aggressive and selfish," claims the Director of Trygg Trafikk, Leiv A. Elevenset. This is followed by the Norwegian Automobile Association which also wants the ‘hostages’ to be hatched. ‘We approve of the bill, we believe this is in the service of road safety’, says information manager Egil Otter. That the law and the order party Progress Party will not have the same law and order in car traffic as they otherwise foreshadow, we will only take note, but that the Workers' Party and the Center Party will weaken the introduction of dot load by 20-30 pst. surprises more. As we read the justification for the proposal, namely, more detailed documentation on diet/benefits under dot load, it is even more surprising. Here we are talking about important prevention to avoid harm and loss of human life, and then it is not diet/benefit that we are primarily concerned about, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party. Finally, there is no doubt that the vast majority of drivers are responsible people, but despite this it seems documented that more and more people are taking chances in traffic. For whatever reason, we are within a development that has to be stopped. This is why the majority proposal is on a safe footing, especially because it is primarily directed at the serious infringements. It's important. We are not served by a system that criminalises almost insignificant offenses. For the Christian People's Party, this is about saving lives and saving many people for serious health damage. There is today a lack of understanding of the risk you are running from unsensical behaviour on the roads. Unfortunately, reaction methods are needed that affect the few who are constantly taking chances, and repeatedly endanger their lives and those of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e268	No one disagrees that it is important to strengthen road safety. It is important to be able to respond to drivers who behave irresponsiblely and negligently in traffic and thus are at risk to both themselves and other road users. In traffic security there are many different measures that can be effective, either individually or in combination with others. It is important to focus on a wide range of measures, ranging from the content of driver training, changes in drivers’ attitudes, road repairs and responses to those who break traffic rules. Notices from the police on the road are alarming. New cars with powerful motors try drivers, young and old alike, for high speed, dangerous overruns and risky driving. The size has joined the 0 vision. We just have to realize that there's a long piece left before we can say that we've approached this vision materially. It is therefore natural to look for new measures to reduce traffic accidents. The dot load system has been unloaded in Norway. If TØI is right in its assessments, this may be a measure that can provide road safety benefits. But experience from other countries shows that the dot load system alone does not give the big gain. On the other hand, experience has shown that the scope of controls is an important and effective tool for reducing traffic offences. A dot load system can only be considered if there is a reasonable chance of a breach of traffic rules. Of course, a dot load system can have a preventive effect, especially for the so-called traffic jams. But it's once again dependent on the fact that the risk of being drawn is reasonably large. Therefore, the scope of the checks on the roads must be such that there are not too many non-capture offences. I find it strange that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party do not see this necessary combination of traffic controls and dot load systems and support the Workers' Party and the Centre's proposal to increase the scope of police controls on the most unstoppable road sections. The dot load system has provided the police with equipment that makes it easy to keep track of traffic offences committed by individual drivers. This equipment will also be useful for other police tasks. The equipment can therefore be a useful and good investment in itself. For the centre batch, it is important to place the resources in traffic security where they give the best effect. Therefore, the Centre Party, together with the Labour Party, requests in its comments that, in the context of the 2003 budget, the Government return with more detailed evidence of the cost-benefit of various road safety measures. This could give a pointer to what's most effective to bet on in the future. The dot load system has been a debated measure in the countries that have introduced it. It is therefore not unnatural that this measure also creates debate in Norway. Even if the Government gets multiples for the implementation of the dot load system today, the system should be carefully assessed. In particular, it is necessary to consider the costs and limit them as much as possible. Jan Sahl wondered in his speech that the Centre Party and the Labour Party would reduce costs. But what the Labour Party and the Center Party have said does not differ so much from what the Christian People's Party is also involved in, simply to stress that it is a clear goal to limit administrative costs as much as possible. So as I understand it, we have a common objective that the administrative costs should not be greater than is necessary. The centre part sees a lot of objections to the dot load system, and we're not overestimated that the effort in this area is the single measure that gives the very best effect. However, if this is a measure that can help save human lives, it is also an approach that is difficult to reject, and the Centre Party will therefore vote for the introduction of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e289	Between 15 and 20 years of debate on the introduction of a dot load on driving licences, I hope to go to the end. I am very pleased that a broad majority of the Committee sees the appropriateness of this road safety measure and supports the Government's proposals. The introduction of peak load is a concrete follow-up to the road safety strategy in the national transport plan 2002-2011. The plan emphasises the need to be more effective in dealing with traffic risk behaviour. Unfortunately, the importance of increased road safety efforts is made visible through the depressing figures of injured and killed people. to date in the year – and at the latest in the last days. The majority of road users are both aware of responsibilities and safety. However, we have to assume that 12 000 people are injured and killed annually on Norwegian roads, and that most of the tragic accidents that are behind this figure are caused by driving errors. This means that a driver violates the basic traffic rules to which the majority of road users relate and comply. The risk that the driver himself, passengers or other road users, is injured or killed as a result of such driving errors will differ from one type of infringement. It could also vary with the traffic conditions on site, carried, etc. However, the risk increase in the event of infringements of certain key codes of conduct would nevertheless be significant. In view of the possible consequences, traffic behaviour in which one consciously or unconsciously still endangers the lives and health of other road users must be socially unacceptable. There shouldn't be anything like that. it shall be possible to pay off if you have sufficient advice. Predictability in relation to the behaviour of other road users is essential for safe traffic management. Such predictability is achieved through a common set of rules on how to act on the road, and through reactions to breaches of this common set of rules. These reactions shall reflect the seriousness of the infringement. In the event of a very serious infringement, the entitlement to drive is waived. In the case of minor offences, a fee will be applied. The proposed dot load system shall be used in the layers between them. The system shall cover certain types of infringements which are serious but not so serious as to result in the withdrawal of the licence at the time of the first infringement. It is important to be aware that infringements which may in themselves appear less serious may have very serious consequences when the accident is first out. For example, a pedestrian that is hit by a car that lasts 50 km/h is likely to be killed or very seriously injured. In the event of a collision for 30 km/h, the pedestrian will most likely come from it without serious damage. This says something about the importance of responding to what some road users see as minor infringements. The proposal does not extend the right to hold driving licences and to withdraw them, but introduces them into a system that is far more predictable for road users, easier to enforce and manage for the police, and which ensures uniform practice. Nor shall it replace other road safety measures, such as traffic controls and awareness-raising activities, but it shall interact with them. Different dot load systems are in use in a number of countries. The lack of accurate evidence of the impact of these systems is due to the fact that, like Norway, these countries are pursuing an active road safety policy and therefore other measures have also been implemented during the same period as the introduction of the peak load system. This has made it difficult to isolate the effect of dot load alone. As stated in the proposal, the impact is assumed to have a very good effect, both as an overall measure and in its individual parts – registration of an infringement, warning letters in the case of a certain number of infringements, and, where appropriate, withdrawal of the driving licence where the warning does not change behaviour. The measure is also socially viable, as the costs of introducing and administering the scheme will be significantly lower than the costs saved in the form of avoided accidents. I also agree with the Committee's comment that it must be a clear objective to minimise administrative costs, but without jeopardising the legal certainty of the scheme. Further work on the practical preparation and implementation of the scheme will focus on this, including through the use of technological solutions. The strike load mechanism will be evaluated and continuously assessed in order to achieve the desired road safety performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e325	We deal with a specific issue of dot load, which is almost an instrument and part of a major issue of road safety on the Norwegian road. There's nothing unnatural about thinking wider than just dot load. Of course, the Labour Party and the Center Party will not weaken their efforts. We want to limit bureaucracy, because we actually have a lot of good examples of good measures that don't get the permissions they might need. So some questions. Will road traffic controls become more frequent in the future? I noticed that Andersen’s representative spoke positively about Trygg Trafik. Is the government's government concerned about security traffic's economy, and will it take the initiative to improve their economy? And what do the State Councils think about extra police controls on off-roads? I refer to example in Westfold in 1999, with very good effect. Would you like to see more such controls this summer, and will there be money added to this next year? So finally, just a little bit of advice to the government council: when she comes to the Storting with things that are relatively controversial, maybe it's a good idea to think about whether you can have something to give in the adjacent area, like this. I can't exactly understand that seven million. kr is an overwhelmingly large part of a $20 billion budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e336	This is a suggestion for the Stortinget on dot load, and not on budget. This is not a budgetary matter as such. The specific budgetary issues will have to be re-examined when we discuss the budget. Limiting bureaucracy is in the heart of this government. We want an effective society in such a way that the public sector and the public part of our business are good, and we need to have minimum bureaucracy. So also in this case. That is why it is an objective for us to have this implemented in a way that means least bureaucracy. So I think we have a completely common starting point with that. In the case of frequent inspections, there are plans for both summer and other times of the year. When we talk about additional police controls, there will always be periods when, for various reasons, additional police controls are put in place on different routes. When we talk about the overall scope of controls, there will ultimately be questions of prioritising funds to that sector. Of course, I am interested in many measures on the road safety side. This is one element of several. Police control is another. As far as Safety Traffic is concerned, they are making a phenomenally important effort in our society, and I'm of course interested that Safety Traffic is going to carry on its business. As far as the budget is concerned, we have to get back to it when it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e351	It is interesting to hear that several speakers have pointed out that there is a great debate on the burden of dot in other countries, and that we have that debate in Norway as well. It is interesting to note that in this case too it is the Progress Party against the rest. The government has studied the system of dot stress in other countries — in England, Sweden, Finland, Germany and France — without being able to draw any conclusions that it does. There is no evidence that peak loads increase road safety and reduce accidents in some of these countries. So it is highly doubtful whether the Government achieves the expected 1,200 licence withdrawals, which the Government assumes in the proposition. I am aware that TØI has made an assessment of the dot load system, which is likely to lead to significant road safety gains. Then my question is to the Council of State: can she explain to me how this can be done in Norway, without problems and to a large extent, when you cannot get a road safety gain or fewer accidents, neither in England, Sweden, Finland, Germany or France? I would like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e360	When we use external consultants to help us review the impact of this, it's because we need help and want professional assessments. We have received professional assessments that say that here it can be a significant gain to get through avoiding accidents. And fortunately, this is hard to measure, because this has an effect, says among other things. scientists, which means that we get fewer accidents. I also fully agree that we should review the cost-benefits of road safety measures. Then there will be aspects. We might have problems finding the exact and concrete effect, because fortunately we avoid some accidents and luckily avoid seeing a bad statistic. We're aiming at the zero vision. That's what's driving us. If we're going to do a cost-benefit analysis of other measures, we have a lot. It mentions the construction of new roads and racial protection measures. If we're just going to look at it professionally and statistically, there's an accident with a race where it's going to happen between one and two people on average per. years. Nevertheless, we believe that this is an important element to take care of. We want to spend money on racial protection, not because statistics say that there are a lot of people who are dying, but because you experience uncertainty. We want people to feel that everyday life is safer because we implement measures. There are some such measures which may not be so terribly easy to put on, but which will still help to create a safer picture. That some groups are just very opposed to dot load, I just have to honestly admit that I take as a signal that there are groups who might see that this may be a problem with traffic behaviour. I take that as a sign that it can be a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e371	I am pleased that the Council of State in its response to the previous reply, from Kenneth Svendsen, took advantage of a dietary review of the various measures that can be implemented in the field of road safety. I want to ask the Council of State if it takes the challenge, so that one gets such a review, because we have a lot of different measures. As far as I know, there has not been such an assessment to see what is most effective. If you want to make the best use of resources, you might be taking an important step. Then I want to follow up a little further on what Kenneth Svendsen asked about, when he was about to say that a foreigner says that it is difficult to measure the effect, while TØI in Norway says that it gives an effect here, from 50 to 100 fewer injuries or killers. Has TØI developed in any special way that shows the effect that one has not done abroad? Or are there just different assessments that make one come to so far different results, that one abroad is not able to point to an effect, while we're doing it here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e378	It is enough that in those countries where you have such a dot load system, you do not have the view that this does not have an effect. It's totally up to who you're asking. We have received many signals and feedback that this works very well. There will probably not be any genuine new in the way that the Transport Economic Institute has done its calculations. They have made their assessments based on a professional approach to what can be expected of the benefits and costs associated with the solution. It is not right to say that dot load does not work in other countries. The Transport Economics Institute has looked at what has been achieved and what can be achieved here in the country. In terms of food-benefit analysis of road safety, I know that it may be a difficult area to carry out unique analyses of. But I fully agree that it would be very useful for us as decision-makers to carry out such an analysis. So I'd like to take the initiative to implement that. I see that it can also be useful when we are dealing with transport plans and budgets, for that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e385	When it comes to introducing a new system, it might be that you should initially be a little careful when trying to make this work. For this reason, my question becomes to the Council of State: Can the Council of State possibly take into account the fact that there is a different distribution, to which the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have provided, among other things. to spend more money on more police, to grant security traffic, and also to have an entry-in period for a dot load system? How do the government councils view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e390	It's now that everything is related to everything. If there are no police controls, there will never be anyone getting a dot. That's why we have to have both of these to make it work. To bet on more police rather than dot load means that we continue with the system that allows some to be notoriously infringing traffic rules and thus acting as a major risk factor in traffic. Then we don't get to take the problem where it is, that it's just someone who deliberately or unconsciously violates the traffic rules. If a question someone who has lost some of his in such accidents, I don't think there's any doubt that there's a great deal of commitment to just taking the behavior that's happening. That those who take a notorious advantage of the system and pay out of the checks can only continue this activity is neither acceptable nor compatible with the zero vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e397	I find that the Council of State on my question of comparison with other countries was not close to answering. Fortunately, the representative Jorunn Ringstad followed up and got a partial answer, and the partial answer was that there were different responses from different countries, and that there were many good effects. Then one of my questions is, why didn't it come out in the proposition? In fact, it says the following: ‘There is no evidence from any of the countries on the real effect of dot load alone.’ So here it says that it's not effective, while the minister says that there's a lot of good things that have come out of it. What's right -- is what the minister says now, or is what the proposition says? I would like to have an answer as to why in Norway we can have so many good effects from this, while in the countries that have examined this, as it says here, there are no such effects. What's so unique about what we're going to do in Norway, so you're going to have violent effects where other countries don't have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e407	As I said in my answer instead, it depends on who you're talking to. It's not like you get a clear answer when you talk to the people who live in these countries about the kind of perception they have of the dot-load system. There are people who are very engaged, and who have great faith in it. But it is absolutely right that there is no evidence of it – and fortunately we don't have to experience it, because here it's sparing human life it's about. Fortunately, we do not get to the point that we actually have to register them when it has happened. As I said, I have great faith in this system because it takes the notorious traffic controllers, those who are a danger to traffic and a danger to other people. This objective is also achieved in other countries; a desire to address and address this issue. And the fact that you haven't chosen to turn around and still view it as a tool you want to use, I take as a sign that you think it's a useful tool. That is why I strongly support this in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e415	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e418	We all agree to bring down the number of accidents, and that the most important thing is to reduce traffic offences. What you disagree about is the means. For the Workers' Party, it is most important that Norway has the best possible road safety and that as little as possible be killed and injured in traffic. For us, there's no point in itself to start something just to get it started. It is important that what is done works, that the number of deaths and injuries is reduced – that must be the objective. We know what works. We know that visible police and controls work, and we know that information and awareness-raising work works. Therefore, we were initially opposed to implementing the Government's dot load scheme, because no one could say for sure what the dot load scheme would mean for the number of injuries and deaths. None of the countries with peak loads can say for sure if it helps. We have also been informed of this today – but we have also received the opposite. The Labour Party considered that the Government's proposal was not good enough. The working party considered that the extent of the dot load system should be reduced according to the Government's arrangements. We also believe that the government's arrangements would be too bureaucratic and too weak to act. The representative Ausdal Starrfelt of the Workers' Party has briefed on what arrangements the Workers' Party wants to enter and what kind of distribution. When we know that more police and visible police on the roads are causing less accidents, it's enough to get the police out on the roads. One had the longest hope that several parties could join the proposal to grant more money to the police. There's no point with a dot load if there's no dots. In order for this system to have credibility, we need to be able to implement it properly and in a good way. The working party hopes that the dot load system will reduce the number of fatalities and damage to traffic. We hope that the real traffic sins are taken, and that when we implement this system, we make it work in a proper and good way. Finally, I could imagine commenting on one thing. It's kind of strange that, among other things. The Progress Party does not support the proposal to give more money so that we get more police out on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e438	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e441	In the fight against road accidents, nothing must be left unbridled. Traffic security must be high on the transport policy agenda. Many measures have also been taken, without one saying that one or the other action provides the phase response. We've got a lot of photo boxes on our roads, but it doesn't help much if you run too fast between the boxes and slow down just when you reach the box. We politicians talk hot and long about attitude-creating work, and that is also important. But we should recognize that neither can we at Stortinget decide that people should behave neatly in traffic. We have a society that has given people better advice – more people have been able to afford to buy bigger and better cars with more horsepower. This means that it is tempting to drive a little too fast. In most cases, this is going well, but unfortunately in recent times, we have seen a front against front collisions happen more often and more frequently. This is linked to the fact that the road standard is too bad. I can mention that in my county, Hedmark, the E6 takes too many lives and hurts too many people in traffic every year, and many accidents could have been avoided by separate carriageways. It's a cross of thought. This is not a criticism of this Council of States in particular. In the name of honesty, we have to take self-criticism each in this room because it has been too little allocated to the road sector. This recognition should come primarily from the government parties, which have promised and promised, but which are now held responsible and do not fulfill any of the promises they made to their voters. I'm one of those people who don't think the dot load changes the accident statistics. I fully support the comment from the Workers' Party and the Center's party, which says that the dot load only has a purpose if the chance to be taken is greater. Until then, more frequent checks on the roads of the police need to be carried out. Therefore, I am pleased that the Workers' Party and the Center's party propose that some of the money the Government will grant to implement the dot load, go to Safer Traffic and to the police. Safe Traffic works well with the training of children in traffic, and the police are absolutely necessary on our roads. When the Vestfold project is constantly being presented as a good project, I alone will link the outcome of it to visible police and frequent controls. Most drivers change their behaviour behind the steering wheel if the danger of being taken is great. Money understands most of them, and if you get a fine that cheats, there's a lot of behavioral change in it. I hope several people can support the proposal of the Central Party and the Labour Party in this matter. And I think that if the Council of State had had the right to vote, she would also have voted for it, after what she said in her reply to the representative, Stroem. So now I don't understand why the government parties can't support this proposal from the Central Party and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e456	I took the floor now because I heard the Council's reasoning about the importance of this proposal, that there seemed to be a great deal of research that made this almost revolutionary, so that continued to bet on the police was a crazy way to go. I think you'll listen to what I'm saying now. You can look back at the record and read that this was the reasoning: the sources you could then use could be picked out as you would abroad, which could confirm that the dot load system was unique. But there were also other sources, as the Council of State said. It's going to be a strange reasoning, and then I think this is the following: when the Central Party and the Workers' Party say we're on this proposal, we're on it because we think we should try every opportunity to bring down the number of accidents in this country. But at the same time we take into account that there are still other areas where it's important to bet on. What for me then becomes central is: Why can't the government say that here we can get to a broad majority in the Stortingen where you really bet on road safety measures, but where do you have different methods of achieving the result? At least you can try not to build up a bureaucracy that is more expensive compared to a system where the result is more uncertain. That is why – as has been said here – the government parties should actively and enthusiastically support the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e465	The President would point out that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e468	Ausdal Starrfelt wondered if we didn't want to increase controls on the roads, and why in all the world we couldn't go in and support the proposal they made – that was just $7 million. kr it was about. I just want to point out that this concerns the introduction of a new scheme. What the Workers' Party is doing is reducing the cost of a new scheme by 20-30 pst. before they know what it will cost, even if we do it as little bureaucratic as possible. And not only do they reduce costs, but they also immediately use the money for all kinds of good measures, which I think are positive. And not only that -- they say that well, if the system doesn't work, one can just get more money. Then we start at a crazy end. Let's make the system work, and then we'll have to be involved and evaluate and adjust it gradually. Seven million. kr was said that one could reduce the cost with. And it doesn't surprise me at all what the Workers' Party is doing right now. Because in almost every case, we see that they are dealing with the budget next door. If I had started to sum up all of the things that they raise next to the revised and state budget, yes, then I wonder if someone hadn't heard a little less about this with additional appropriations and to take things out of the case card.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e475	Governments answered a question about the experience in other countries, that it was dependent on ‘whom a question’. Yeah, I guess it's pretty clear that it is. But I actually didn't think the Ministry of Transport sent their bureaucrats out into the street in Europe to ask what people meant. I thought there were official enquiries to departments in other countries, and that official answers were received, and that this proposition was not based on polls in the different European countries. But it is possible that I am wrong. Then I want to come back to Sahl, who when he had the word, pointed out that the Progress Party was a law and order-party. I didn't think this was a debate whether we should have law and order in traffic or not. I thought it was a debate about dot load. The party of progress and everyone else in this Chamber is certainly in agreement that notorious bullies, people who enjoy alcohol in traffic, who violate traffic rules in all possible ways, must be taken seriously and they must be severely punished. That's not what this is about. This is about dot load, and it's about whether you believe that this system works or not, so there was nothing about law and order-party progress party I was in. The representative of Sahl was concerned with respect for traffic rules. It should perhaps be turned down by the representative Sahl that the innumerable rules that have been introduced, the system of fines in this country, which has been at the top of the world, can help undermine respect for traffic rules and law and order. It's actually a problem. But what's impressive when you listen to Sahl and the majority in this room, is that when you discuss dot loads and other things that don't cost five flat ears to carry out, then the commitment is on top, but once you're going to use five flat ears in this hall to do what really matters, namely, spend money on the road, then there's not much commitment. Then you have hidden behind the chair and don't want to say anything special about it. Because it's the use of money on the road that really counts. You can see that in the evening post today, as it says: ‘Death road became Norway’s safest.E18 in Westfold. Every year two people were killed and 30 injured on the old road between the Drammen and the Kopstad Cross at Horten. After the opening of the new motorway, the death toll has dropped to zero. In the course of the seven months, only four people are injured. One of Norway’s most feared road sections has thus become one of the safest in the country.’ Every life costs $20.8 million. kr, it's calculated. Where are Sahl and the others when we're going to give more money to secure these roads, where it really counts, where a really avoids traffic victims, and death rates go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e491	I notice with great amazement the reasoning of some who think that an opportunity to save one human life means that this is about profitable -- one human life, based on a statistical calculation of what a human life is worth. For me, this is also a moral question. I also notice that both the Workers' Party and the Center's party, as I see it, believe it is right that those who can afford it should be allowed to pay out of the problems that arise when one is taken in speed control. This I think is strange. It's a social profile that I think is strange from these parties. I still believe that if we manage to save one human life, if we can save two human lives per. years through this system, then it's worth it. I don't want to meet the relatives and say: I failed – I didn't do what I could. I have a duty as Minister of Transport to go through the tools that exist, and then I believe it is not right to have a system that allows you to pay off the responsibility, and thus make their contribution to ensuring that road safety is not strengthened. I still believe that this is a good proposal, and I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e499	I would like to remind you that we support the proposal, and we expect the Council of State to come up with proposals to finance it next year, and then we will look at it. I'm saying that trying to scare one life, it's important, and that there's good diet – useful in this. But what is the situation is that we have a lot of measures that don't seem to give the limit to money. So here we can play ball back and forth and say that we could have done a lot more if this was the only thing we would solve in this country. If this was item No 1, it's clear we could have done more, so maybe I don't think we should use this to each other that way. I notice that the representative Anne Berit Andersen is very surprised that we are expanding a little bit, that we are expanding a point-to-point load to cover traffic security and adding a few – two, three – other elements. I think that's special. There are no new exercises in this house at all. But it's clear that there are different roles in position and opposition. The position will be as free as possible to decide for itself and present it to the Storting, the opposition wants to influence the budget as much as possible – it is clear. And when one mentions these proposals as positive, I think it might be a good thing to be so liberal that one voted for these two good proposals. The one thing, on police control, is just about what the representative has said and others have said, that if people are not detected, they will not be able to do much more control, so we have to have more controls to get the dots – no doubt. So I'm once calling on the government party to vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e507	I note after the debate that there is certainly a larger deal about road safety work than it might seem, fortunately. I see that the road safety work goes after two important approaches. One is physical action, which has been strongly focused from the Progress Party. So it's staggering work. From the Christian People's Party's side, I think I'll call this with a dot load for a very careful sticker in traffic – equal to 0.2 per million, which we have experience of making people more careful – and that's perhaps where we have a win. When we talk about the zero vision, we're not sure that in connection with the dot load, we're fully achieving the objectives that are here. But if we – as the Council of State was also in it – achieve the goals, it will in itself be so great that it is worth trying. And once we've got assurances from the state council that there will also be an evaluation, I'm sure it's right to try this out. The next question you can ask yourself is, When does one get the most out of the funds for road safety? My experience from More and Romesdal is that this works best when we can be in dialogue and in interaction with the groups in traffic. We have very good experience in distributing small funds to, for example, kindergartens with traffic training. We have a major campaign going on against youth groups in More and Romesdal and South Trondelag, where the dialogue with young people turns out to have a good effect. So I just want to say that we have to put in all the means we can to increase the focus on a more subdued and not as aggressive behavior in traffic as the one we're experiencing right now. After this last accident weekend, with ten people killed in traffic, it's that we have this case for treatment right now, in a way creepy good thaima. This is too high a number. So far this year, we have seen that the good spring we had in relation to accident statistics has been ruined. May, with 34 killers – 10 more than a year before – is in itself capable of scaring, and the beginning of June means that we can only be horrified by the numbers. That's why we're going to try this out. I recommend it at the warmest.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e521	It is clear that there is a great deal of pressure in the Progress Party when it comes to regulating the behaviour of drivers in traffic. I stand by what I said in my post, that the Progress Party can in many ways be characterised as the law and order party, but in addition they are also in many ways the carists' spokespersons. The Progress Party shall promote an explicit Document No. Eight proposals to regulate almost everything in this country by law, but precisely in the area of traffic and motorism, you choose to go in the opposite direction. I do not know if the representative Kenneth Svendsen and I are experiencing the same everyday traffic, but I was out on a long weekend and experienced the constant efforts of the drivers to pay off the problem. You're at the speed limit, but you're still going past because you know that there's a certain limit, and that we have good advice in Norway. What is the matter with this proposal is that these are the ones you have to give a warning by getting a dot on the driving licence, so that they can comply with the traffic rules you have here in the country. Then the representative, Kenneth Svendsen, was about to grant money on roads and on transportation. Yes, the Progress Party is, as has been said earlier today, high on the track with money on the roads, with 46 billion extra kroner in connection with the national transport plan. But when you come to the world of reality, when you have to give priority, health goes – as was said in a previous case here today – of course ahead. I have to agree with that, but in the second place there are taxes and taxes that have to be lowered. And when the Progress Party comes into a position where they are to take responsibility, they are not out of the way with appropriations in the same way as they are when they can provide an alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e530	I'll be very short. I just wanted to thank you for the compliment that we are the best friend of the drivers, and confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e537	It's good with good words about its seas. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 404]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e555	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e566	This is in terms of a new law with smaller material changes. The title is, as I said, the law on professional transport by motor vehicle and vessel, and the law replaces the old law on transport. It will be a long way to go if we take all the ten-twelve indents that can be drawn out from this rewritten law. Some points have a greater political interest than others. Part of the promise's scope, the Government has notified the government that it will return to its future business. This concerns the taxi industry and the specific need for permission testing. There is a broad consensus that the need for increased competition appears to be a major contradiction to the current system of just need testing of rights. The Economic and Social Committee has proposed a system of privileges based on the reputation, financial capacity and professional qualifications of the rightholders. The change in behavior is by the way you treat the resulting image in detail. This is because, in these days, the Committee also has a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party, which are based on the fact that election and victory sentences are not permitted. The Committee has sorted out that the assessment of good repute is already linked to the personal seat of the running seat and that there are now mechanisms that can regulate this by means of the police's work, but this should not be included in the legal text attached to the right. Recognising that the quality requirement here is more attached to the driver than to the copyright holder, there is no need for a real distance between the Committee's plurality and the Progress Party's intention, even if the Progress Party's concrete proposal is not endorsed by others. When it comes to the ferry sector, the Storting in the budget setting of the year has asked the Government to facilitate the launch of competition. Therefore, the legal text we are discussing today also takes account of this and removes the ban on the use of supplies in national and county holiday connections. In this way, the majority will provide users with a better supply than they would otherwise have with the same allocated resource. This is an important matter for many of us who have previously made private proposals on the same subject. Both this setting and previous settings have uncovered the political uncertainty as to how much gain is actually gained through a supply system within the ferry sector. But that these are possibilities for getting an improved transport product out of the same public funds, should be beyond doubt. The majority support the government's belief in the processing of employee rights by post-allocation based on a peer-reviewed selection. The minority who see less potential in supply and who have a conclusion on the right to work will certainly clarify their views. One of the more difficult questions relating to this matter is the right of carriers' inspectors to withhold passengers with regular services which do not have a valid ticket. Existing detention permits are based on the rules of criminal law. Since there have been questions as to whether these rules provide sufficient scope for restraining travellers in the typical control situations, the ministry and the majority have found it necessary to ensure the confidentiality of this Professional Transport Act. The majority opposes the physical arrest of private individuals by persons other than the police. However, it is important for companies to avoid large losses of ticket revenue. The majority place emphasis on a series of delineating precision in relation to power use. The right of detention shall be limited to cases where a person has travelled without a valid ticket and cannot or will not pay a fee at the place, nor will he specify the person concerned. The majority have found that they can support this right of withdrawal. In addition, the new laws allow for the addition of public services to the provision of passenger transport services by passenger cars which are inherently related to the performance of the work. This is relatively little controversial. Otherwise, responsibility for the handling of freight is added to the county council, and the permit waiver is collected at the departmental level of the new law. With a number of minor changes that could be mentioned here, the proposition will be attached as it came from the Government. In the setting, there are six minority suggestions that I assume will do the same thing for each of the parties in their articles. The Committee's recommendation may be adjourned; there may be grounds to add: this time without a licence decision in the Odelsting setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e594	The structure of the draft law has changed in relation to the current law to make it more user-friendly. The law is divided into different subchapters on rights, who is the authorising authority, on grants for regular services, etc. In the case of coach and freight, the permit gives direct access to the market, while in the case of scheduled and taxi services, one must also have a need-tested licence. Regular maritime transport is treated as a regular on-road service in all respects. The case contains regulation of the taxi industry. The government does not decide on the needs testing of the taxi industry now, but will come back to this. Nor does the government consider the possibility of setting the train driver’s competence requirements or the possibility for individual taxi owners to operate their own AS. The Government proposes the lifting of the ban on offers on ferry services. None of the county councils that replied to the hearing object. The organisations of employees are mainly in favour of tenders. Particular attention is drawn to the fact that tenders will put pressure on manning and safety measures and that a tendering system will prevent the re-disposal of ferries where the need is greatest. Nor does the government decide whether tenders are business transfers. The Government also proposes that transport company inspectors be given the right to withhold travellers without a valid ticket with power. This is a new practice since today the police have such authority. Furthermore, the Government proposes to impose obligations on public employees for the carriage of passengers in connection with work, e.g.: home help workers. Such transport cannot take place today. Granting of rights continues as at present. It is proposed that the authorisation should not be limited in time. Police certification requirements for other types of permits shall also be introduced. The updated police record shall be provided. The government proposes every five years. The working party believes that the pilot-in-command of pilot licences is to be continued. The working party also believes that the introduction of skills requirements would improve the situation in the taxi industry and that the individual taxiway could be registered as its own AS. Today there is a certain distortion of competition between taxi license holders and coaches, for example. in the case of tendering for the Rikstrygdenverket. The Working Party considers that these rights should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. We also point out that during the 2002 budgetary procedure, the Stortinget – Right, Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party – decided that ferry operations should be put on the market. The working party refers to previous comments, where we consider ourselves critical for the general use of tenders. We believe that workers' working conditions, pay and pension rights must be respected by tender and that the tendering system must not lead to social dumping. We believe that when another company takes over an existing tendering procedure, it should be regarded as an activity transfer. We are also strongly critical of the fact that transport companies' own inspectors should be able to physically restrain people by force. We believe that such authority should be entrusted to the police. The working party doubts whether the use of these for the carriage of passengers by public servants is justified and would point out that such work does not have to be at the expense of the primary tasks. We believe that the government's proposal for permission treatment is satisfactory with demands for an updated police record every five years. In order to summarise this briefly: the Workers' Party will continue to test the needs of taxis' rights and introduce the requirements of competence and the possibility of a limited liability company. Trolleys and coaches shall be treated in the same way by tenders. Tenders shall be regarded as business transfers and the power to detain persons physically shall lie with the police. On behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, I address the suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e626	Tor-Arne Stroem has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e629	The proposal for a new law on professional transport has something positive in itself, but unfortunately also a good deal negative. Let me take the positive first. In the budgetary negotiations with the government parties last autumn, the Progress Party had an impact on competition between the ferry companies, in other words on the use of tenders for the purchase of unprofitable routes. This means that efficiency is increasing. And all competitive experience shows a higher level of service, better efficiency and lower prices. Whenever calls are made by municipalities and county councils seeking better regularity and, above all, more frequent departures, tenders are made so that the saved funds can be used to improve the route provision, for example through: more frequent departures. In the suspension, the Party of Advances shall form part of the majority which ensures that travellers who do not have a valid ticket can be detained. It is true that in the context of the introduction of this option there is also a real possibility of purchasing a ticket. It has been shown on several occasions that companies in their savings banks have reduced the number of ticketers. Therefore, it has been difficult for some to get a ticket. It would therefore be strange if it were to be so that that is what is the basis for some being held back. It's not acceptable. Apart from what I have just said, the Government shows a lack of action, while not seeing the possibility that competition can improve and provide a good collective offer. I am thinking here especially of the need test of the permissions to drive the bus and taxi. One of the main problems of collective provision is the total lack of competition. The bus routes around this country, with the exception of the buses, are based on the fact that the different transport offices in the counties consider the need for permission and grant concessions to drive. A free establishment will provide a better offer, and the purchase of unprofitable services alongside, where one grants exclusive rights to the winner of the offer, will provide a much better and cheaper offer. I am aware that some county councils already buy some bus routes on offer, but unfortunately, most people do not. There is a great potential for savings that individual municipalities could use to improve the supply. Unfortunately, when the Right comes into government, you don't smell what you thought before. Drying is also a monopolistic industry, with partial exceptions, of course, in the areas where there are several taxi centres, such as in particular. in Oslo. But here too, the granting of permits is based on needs. In most other countries, there has been liberalisation of these rights, including in Sweden, with a good result – although there were clearly problems at first, which will always be when new things are being tried out. But you've learned from that, and now the result is good. The Economic and Social Committee has been working for several years — from 1990 to 1995 — with this particular issue. They concluded that the need test should be removed. But unfortunately – the case has gone back and forth between different agencies and is now in its 12th year. Jammen can't find out that you have to have another investigation. This matter has been resolved well enough, up and down and down. One cannot ignore the result that should have been achieved and that was also achieved by the Food Law Committee, namely that this system should be abolished. It is an old-fashioned system that should have been terminated many, many years ago, but unfortunately. It just confirms what I've said several times before, that the right is different parties when they're in opposition and when they're in government. Unfortunately, they have gone away from their previous promises that the required test for taxis should be removed. Unfortunately, there is nothing I can do about it, but at least I will address the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e644	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e647	I'm not going to use ten minutes, but I'm just going to comment on a couple of points in the bill where SV has been critical of what the majority is in favour of. One point is where it is proposed that air carriers’ inspectors should be given the right to withhold travellers who do not have a valid ticket and who do not want to be legitimised. Transport companies have been authorised by the Transport Act and the Railway Act to provide them with the opportunity to charge a fee if the passengers do not have a valid ticket. But in this case it is proposed to go further, namely to give companies the right to hold people back. And it's justified that it's going to work preventively. The hearing authorities are divided into views at just this point, so there is a different view of this matter also outside this house. In SV, we are sceptical about expanding the right of individuals to hold people back and apprehend. In our opinion, this is a task for the police, and it belongs in the penal code. There are several counter-conceptions about doing that, and I can mention a few. An attack is a discretionary assessment, and it is difficult for individuals to handle. It's a kind of assessment that you get to be trained in when you take police training, and that's the kind of skills you should have if you're going to be able to apprehend people. Another argument is that the person exercising coercive powers may himself be held liable for criminal matters. It's going on, and it's going on. And last, but not least, the one who is put to apprehension can in some cases be exposed to danger. There may also be a safety risk for the person to apprehend. That is why we in SV will oppose the proposal. We believe it's a police task. Transport companies should also take care of their interests through preventive measures, access control, etc. The second point in the bill, where we have disagreed with the majority, concerns tenders in the ferry sector. The proposal here follows on from the decision to deal with the transport budget to facilitate the competitive launching of national road ferries. The working party, SV and the Senterpartiet were opposed to doing so before the test offer scheme was evaluated. And it is not clear that the proposed cost reduction of 13 pst, which was the basis of the trial offer, is fulfilled. On the other hand, there is scope for major restructuring in the ferry sector, merger and development of the monopoly situation. That's also something that the shipping companies have clearly said. If you get monopoly, costs will quickly be driven up. Therefore, the testing scheme should be evaluated in our assessment prior to the submission of tenders. The situation of workers in the case of tenders for national road ferries is an important aspect of this case. Reality is very often that it is the wage costs, the employee's pension and salary relationships, that are pressured out when companies are going out and competing on price. It is often not possible to reduce the number of persons employed on ferries, but it is the pension scheme of the individual who first leaves when tenders are made. So the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have a common proposal and a common comment that will ensure the employees in this situation. Employees often become a balancing item. We propose that the rules for the transfer of activities in the Working Environment Act should apply in all cases where activities are offered, and that pension entitlements should be continued in the event of tenders and tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e668	I would like to focus mainly on three points in the new Transport Act. It concerns the regulation of the taxi industry, offers in the ferry sector and the right to withhold travellers without a ticket. The supply of dross is currently a result of a political process run by the county and thus relatively constant, while demand is market-driven and very varied. Following a review of the regulation system for taxis, the Economic and Social Committee presented on 23 May 1995 a report setting out, inter alia,: concluded that similar arrangements as for coach loops should be introduced for the taxi industry’s part, i.e. that the system of authorisation under consideration is replaced by a system of rights based on personal claims of good repute, financial standing and professional qualifications of the person carrying out the taxi business. In the Christian People's Party, we have noticed the positive results obtained in Sweden by a similar arrangement. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased with the assessment the ministry has on this issue. Experiences include: from Sweden, the number of taxis available on a national basis increased by 25 pst. The Christian People's Party believes that competition in the taxi industry must be opened up to a greater extent than is the case today. In Norway, several taxi centres have recently been established within the same rights district by regulating the number of permits. Therefore, competition between taxi centres has now been facilitated in several places. In November 1999, the Ministry of Labour and Administration decided to abolish the maximum price regime for taxis in areas with more than one central character and, if the conditions were otherwise conducive to competition. In the summer of 1999, the rules on coach loops were amended, including: as a result of adaptation to the EEA free cabotage legislation. As a result, parts of the taxi market face increased competition from coach operators using small buses. This has created unsustainable conditions in some taxi centres. The Christian People's Party is included in the majority of the Committee which has noted that the Economic and Social Committee has recommended the abolition of the test of the need for taxi licences and its replacement by a permit scheme based on standards of good repute, financial standing and professional qualifications. This recommendation is supported by the Ministry of Competition, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Industry and the Swedish National Works Agency. We have noticed that the Ministry of Transport believes that more competition needs to be opened up in the taxi industry, and that the Ministry will come back to the question of the need to test taxi licenses after evaluating the changes that have already been made. The Christian People's Party will wait until the department has evaluated the changes that have already been implemented, to decide on the question of abolishing the licence test and, where appropriate, to replace it with a licensing system based on other requirements. We assume that this process will be carried out as quickly as possible, so that the Storting can take a decision on the possible suspension of the taxi license test in the near future. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party has noticed that the Progress Party will propose that «need-tested» be removed from the title of Section 6 of the Act already now. We are a little surprised that the Progress Party will promote liberalisation in this area, without having the necessary evaluation material on the table first. So for bids in the ferry sector. It's in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002–2011, addressed the main conclusions in the evaluation of the current testing scheme for national road ferries. The Christian People's Party followed this up in the Budget-inner. S. No 13 for 2001-2002 as part of the majority of the Committee, together with the members of the Right and the Progressive Party. We indicated that a good ferry offer is essential for housing and value creation in Coast Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that by offering national road transport connections, efficiency will increase and lead to better frequency and capacity. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's work on the suspension of public road ferries and, where appropriate, the delegation of the authority to the State Road Administration. In the light of the hearing on ferry services in spring 2000, the issue of extended worker protection was raised by the granting of rights to bus and boat routes. The Christian People's Party will await the report of a reduced selection of parties to go through the Working Environment Act. They want, among other things: assess the use of tenders in relation to the legislation governing the transfer of activities. When the report of this group of parties is available, we will decide on the extended protection of workers when granting permission to bus and boat routes. So the question of the right to withhold passengers who have not paid a ticket. Ticket revenue is the main part of the financing of public transport. The companies therefore depend on being able to respond to travellers who do not fulfil their part of the transport contract by paying a ticket. By virtue of the Transport Act/Railway Act, transport companies have been authorised to adopt transport regulations such as: requires travellers to pay a specified fee if they do not have a valid ticket. The Christian People's Party believes that the fee is a reasonable penalty against people who have not paid for themselves. We see it as necessary to establish a safe permit for the right to withhold travellers in cases where a ticket has not been paid. The Christian People's Party believes that such a permit will have a great preventative effect, primarily in relation to getting travellers by public transport to redeem tickets before they board, but also in order to get passengers without a valid ticket who do not pay an on-site fee, to indicate sufficient personnel to enable the fee to be recovered afterwards. In the Christian People's Party, we are committed to stress that the right of carriers' inspectors to restrain travellers must be harsh, in the interests of legal certainty – in the sense that a person should use physical power to the minimum extent possible. We record that the hearing bodies have been divided into views on the proposal that the carrier should be able to withhold persons without a valid ticket when they do not wish to provide the personnel. We see the objections to being able to physically intervene with individuals other than the police. At the same time, ticket receipts are very important and the preventive effect of the proposal is so good that we support the Government's proposal, with the clarifications made in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e704	I would like to make a few comments on some of the paragraphs of the new Transport Act. First, the question of the suspension of the pilot test for taxi licences, as proposed by the Food and Agriculture Committee. I agree that it makes sense to wait with any change from the need test to a permission scheme based on standards of good repute, financial ability and professional qualifications until an evaluation of the taxi industry has been carried out. Together with the Workers' Party and SV, the Centre Party asks that a total review of the taxi industry be carried out and that not only needs testing or not being assessed. It should also be assessed, irrespective of need testing or not, whether to introduce qualification requirements into the taxi industry. Many people in the taxi industry themselves are also concerned about that very question. I have noticed that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party believe that by putting the national ferry service out on offer, one could improve the ferry supply, efficiency would increase, and this would lead to better frequency and capacity. As far as I am aware, the evaluation of the bid outreach trials that have been carried out has not given rise to the clear conclusions of the majority in their comments. An evaluation carried out by Møreforsking shows correctly that the winners of the trial offer have taken into account a reduction in operating costs in the improvement of supply. But the result after a year of trial is that the company has failed to realize the planned cost reductions. What consequences this may have for the companies in the future if subsequent bidding rounds produce the same results, I will not predict anything for sure, but in the worst case, it may lead to bankruptcy, purchase and monopoly situations in the ferry industry. In my view, it makes sense, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have requested, that the Government return to the Stortinget with an evaluation of the supply of the ferry operations for each rollover of the national transport plan. It was interesting to be right on the previous speaker, Jan Sahl, who praised the offer of the ferry business. In the previous period, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party stood together and asked for an evaluation several times before one went on offer. I understand that Jan Sahl and the Christian People's Party have also changed their position in that matter. So I'd like to take another side of the offer. It turns out that in very many cases where agencies are offered or offered, employees are put in a difficult situation. For this reason, the members of the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party of the Committee also pointed out that the rules governing the transfer of activities in the working environment should apply in all cases where activities are offered. This is a way to provide a small guarantee of security for those who work in these industries. The Ministry of Transport has found it necessary to establish a secure licence for the right to detain travellers if they cannot show a valid ticket and refuse to provide the name, address and date of birth. The Ministry hereby gives the transport companies its inspectors the right to detain passengers. The centre party does not have any difficulty in understanding that for the traffic companies it is important to collect the ticket revenue, which is the most important part of the financing of public transport. But the proposed amendment of the law extends to private individuals their right to use power over others. The central party believes that it is primarily the task of the police to exercise power over private individuals. Seizing people can also pose risks, and the danger of using more power than necessary is also real. The central party disagrees with the proposal contained in the new draft law and will vote against the proposal of § 33(2), (3), (4) and (5). In this context, the Workers' Party and SV have shown that transport companies can resolve their needs in a more flexible way, by amending Section 173 of the Criminal Procedure Act. The two parties refer to the comments of their respective parties in the position of Ot.prp. No Sixty-six. The Central Party does not have a member of the Judicial Committee. I have therefore not been able to refer to the comments of the Judicial Committee, but I found that the Labour Party and SV point to a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e730	I am pleased to note that the committee's position largely endorses the Government's legislative proposal for a new law on professional transport by motor vehicle and ship, which is to replace the applicable laws on transport. The current law has been amended several times since it came in 1976. Overall, it has led to a lack of clarity in the law. The desire to have a better law available is an important reason why the Government has made proposals for new law rather than further adapting the necessary material changes to existing law. The new name of the Act, the Professional Transport Act, also provides a much more informative and comprehensive description of the scope of the Act. I am pleased with the opening-up of the proposal to also open up the use of tenders in the ferries, in line with what is already applicable to car and boat routes. This could contribute to the more efficient use of resources, so that funds can be released to expand and improve holiday provision for people and business. However, the minority is concerned that the opening of tenders to national road ferries could lead to mergers and a monopoly situation which could, in the next round, raise costs. I have some understanding of this concern, but I still believe that the old concession system with an approximate right to renewal also created monopolies. An active competition policy is therefore important, while transport authorities must keep under review the scope of individual tenders in order to contribute to the best holiday solutions for the public. With regard to the protection of workers through the use of tenders, I would like to point out that the existing laws on transport and regulations provide for certain conditions to be laid down for the right of establishment which previously performed the regular services to be placed on the premises which are being offered. Equally, pay and working conditions are required to correspond at least to one of the national collective agreements in the relevant areas. These provisions will continue with the new law. The question is whether to extend the protection of workers through the application of the rules on takeover of activities in the Working Environment Act. As mentioned in the Proposition, the Government has reduced a selection of parties currently subject to the Working Environment Act, including, inter alia, the following: the question of the rules governing takeover of activities in relation to tenders. As mentioned above, the European Commission has made proposals for a regulation on public procurement of collective services. This proposal provides that the competent authority issuing tenders may provide for the rules on takeover of activities to apply. Under the EEA Agreement, if adopted in the EU, this can become binding rules for us. In such a situation, I believe it is natural to await the outcome of these processes. In the context of the minority's proposal that the right to hold passengers without a valid ticket should instead be enshrined through a change in the criminal law and the Criminal Procedures Act, I would like to point out that the purpose of the proposal is to obtain personalia, so that the additional fee already provided for in the Transport Act can be recovered. This is a civil claim, which can be recovered in the usual way and must be separated from a criminal prosecution. The level of the additional charge is determined by the Ministry of Transport as part of the transport regulations of the transport companies and must, for preventive reasons, be in a certain proportion to the price of the ticket which has not been paid. I therefore do not see it as natural that the law should be enshrined in criminal law. In most cases the recovery of the fee will in itself be sufficient. Like the minority, I also see that the right of the traffic companies to withhold travellers without a valid ticket has some problematic aspects. However, with the limitations of the scheme drawn up in the proposal, in conjunction with requirements for individual approval based on training, instructions and conditions, I believe that a proper balance has been made, as expressed by the majority. With regard to the issue of the future regulation of taxis, it is announced in the proposal that the Government will come back to this. I have noticed that the majority want the Storting to be presented with the question of need testing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e747	The Workers' Party will also kill the carpenters. Does not the Council of State object to the possibility of private actors appreciating people? And doesn't the Council of State see that it should be the task of the police? We are critical to include a special rule in a special law such as the Professional Transport Act. Such rules are, in our opinion, subject to criminal law. Does the Council of State have any view on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e754	I think of this as the most relevant question. As I went through this, I assessed it under the penal code on the one hand and what we are now proposing, on the other hand. What we're doing now is actually cleaning up the basis for a practice that's already used in some places. There is a difference between municipalities on how to practice this detention. I would like to remind you that it is a matter of holding back until you have entered the personal data. It's not an attack. Having carefully assessed this, I do not want this to be a process in terms of punishment and criminal law, because then we have a completely different situation than the one we are now talking about, which goes on the occasion of the transport companies to restrain road users who have not paid a valid ticket. We also know that this is of great economic importance to the companies. In this city, for example, it is of great importance that there is an opportunity to recover the income that is otherwise lost if you have no opportunity to hold back, and to ensure that there is a dialogue to make people pay for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e765	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e768	We are increasingly faced with the fact that the lack of legal provisions in the Working Environment Act contributes to increased uncertainty for people in companies that are being tendered. There is an uncertainty regarding both safety and safety in order to maintain agreed wage and employment agreements. This is the real challenge – and the background to the view of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre in their comments that the rules for the transfer of activities in the Working Environment Act should also apply to cases where the national road haulage operation is put on the market and the operation is taken over by new operators. This is not a surrogate argument against the suspension of tenders. It is to take seriously the experience of tenders in the entire transport sector. We are all for the best possible offer at the lowest possible price. Such a measure may not be achieved if the rights of the employees become the balancing item in a tender. The good offer and the efficient operation are created by safe employees, employees who feel belonging to and responsibility for the business. You don't get such employees by creating insecurity. This theme is very central and well known in the land-based transport sector. There is therefore every reason to look at the experience it has gained before falling headlessly into the liberalisation of national road haulage. During the various consultations carried out by the Committee in spring, it has been clear from both the labour market and the employers' side that the potential for efficiency in the industry has been removed. The main remaining savings are labour costs. And this cannot be immaterial to the government parties, which in the Sem Declaration express great respect for human dignity. Not least the Christian People's Party should bear this in mind, and not just – in pure joy of being able to sit in government – push the problem ahead. The ferry connection is far from well enough in many places in the country. I think we can all agree on that. We know it's important to find solutions that can raise the standard and offer. But to believe that the only answer to the challenge is to launch the ferry operation on offer is at best naive. In the worst case, it's an experiment where it becomes the employees and the passengers who have to pay for the experiment. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 13 for 2001-2002 the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have a common note: ‘These members refer to the experience gained from testing offers in national road ferries that have been evaluated by Møreforskning. The winnings of the sample tenders have taken into account a reduction of the operating costs of 13 pst. in their tenders in spite of the improvement of the offer. After the first year of the tender, the companies reported that they had not been able to realise the planned cost reductions.These members point to the fact that a general opening of bids for national road ferries could quickly lead to mergers and a monopoly situation within the shipping structure. These include: confirmed by the shipping industry. Such long-term development could drive costs in national road ferries. These members consider that experience so far should not conclude with a general admission to bid in the national road transport operation.» It is my opinion that the Christian People's Party in government cooperation with the Right has begun to move on the roads they have never wanted to go before. My appeal to the Christian People's Party is therefore that it is never too late to turn around. My challenge to the Christian People's Party is to keep my faith that the Christian People's Party is also a defender of well-functioning collective systems, both at sea and on land, for the benefit of users and employees. Finally, let me comment on the proposals on the transport companies' need for more effective ticket control. It is important to show respect for the work carried out by control officers and at the same time to understand the day-to-day difficulties they have to deal with. The best way to do that is not to give them approximate police duties, but to better facilitate the organisation of their work. This means, among other things: to make access control as important as exit control.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e792	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e808	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 411]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e824	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 412]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e840	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e847	The first part of Ot.prp. No 82 for 2001-2002 is a follow-up to proposals made in St.prp. No 62 for 2001-2002, which was debated in the Stortinget earlier today. So I don't have any new comments for that part. But in Ot.prp. No 82 include proposals for the law on the provision of basic banking services through the despatch network of Posten Norge AS. Today, the Post Norway BA is required to provide basic banking services throughout the network. The question in Ot.prp. No 82 is whether this obligation should be legalised. A number of the Committee, all the non-participating Progress Party, support a law-making process so that there is no doubt that this is a social responsibility for the Post. The majority are also open to assess any change in the obligation to enter into an agreement with only one financial institution, which is granted a single right, and which is required to provide basic banking services throughout the network of despatch. A clear requirement for change is that this should not weaken the ability of the Post to provide banking services to all customers throughout the country, and the majority of the Committee minus the Progress Party has joined the representations here.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e859	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e867	The odelsting shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e874	During the debate, Mr Ausdal Starrfelt, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party, put forward proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The additional adjustment costs related to the dot load system are reduced by 20-30 pst.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘It is estimated that 5 million will be allowed since 2003. more for police control on the most unclosed road sections.» These proposals must be considered as requests and will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e923	The Party of Advances and the Coastal Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e935	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Coastal Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e949	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e960	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee shall be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e967	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tor-Arne Stroem, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 3-6, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party The President takes first of all proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to the Storting with an evaluation of bids in the ferry business in connection with each rollover of the national transport plan.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1077	For the title of the paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 6. The title of the paragraph shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1120	For the title of the paragraph there is also an alternative proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 7. The title of the paragraph shall be replaced by:Arrival of scheduled passenger services.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1174	For the title of the paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 9. The title of the paragraph shall be replaced by the following: The Progress Party has announced that it is against § 9, second, third and fourth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1335	Paragraph 22, sixth paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Article 22(6) shall be replaced by the following:The contract of evidence concluded on the basis of offers shall be valid for at least 5 years, with the exception of temporary routes. When there are particular reasons for this, a concluded agreement may be extended for a shorter period. Workers related to activities on offer shall maintain such rights and obligations as are provided for in Chapter XII(A) of the Working Environment Act. In addition, pension schemes shall be passed on without any reduction in pension schemes.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1423	The President will vote on proposal No. 6, from the Advancement Party, to Cape. Paragraph 6 of the fifth paragraph of Paragraph 29. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 29(5) shall be replaced by the following:The Ministry may provide for the right to withdraw the right to exercise the right to exercise jurisdiction in the event of the rightholder’s indictment of acts of violence, victories or severance.’.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1485	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are moving against § 33, second to fifth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1644	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1654	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1818	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1828	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1934	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e1944	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e2147	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e2157	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e2200	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e2212	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e2226	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1843e2237	There is no record.
