ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e26	From the delegation of the European Parliament to the 107th Interparliamentary Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Marrakech, there is an application for leave, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr. Karin Andersen. The application concerns the period from 14 March to 22 March to 22 March for the representatives of Karin Andersen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, from 15 March to 22 March for the representative of Thore A. Nistad, and from 18 March to 22 March for the representatives of Rune J. Skylaaen, Knut Storberget and Finn Martin Vallersnes, respectively. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hedmark County, Grethe G. Fossum, there is an application to be exempted from meeting on the Stortinget under Knut Storberget's leave from 18 March to 22 March for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Hedmark County: Helge Bjørnsen and Bernt Egil Torp For Hordaland County: Mali Grete N. Aksnes For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad and Jan Petter Rasmussen.3. Mali Grete N. Aksnes and Morten Ørsal Johansen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Rune J. Skylaaen and Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e86	Helge Bjørnsen and Jan Petter Rasmussen are present and will take the seat. The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e91	On behalf of myself, I would like to propose a treatment guarantee for young and new drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e96	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e110	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e117	The proximity shops, like most of those who grew up in the 1960s, remember them, are getting fewer and fewer. Societal development has created a new type of consumer and a new type of store. For us who grew up in the district, for example. in Åfjord, was often the first contact with the city when we were going to buy a confirmation dress. It was felt as a highlight to get to Trondheim, to the city, and drive escalators on the EPO. Today, shopping centres, chain shops and price offers have become part of everyday life throughout Norway. People no longer live as isolated as before, and they are more mobile. The requirements have increased, and with the pressure on the local stores. People want cheaper goods, larger selections and shops that are more adapted to a new lifestyle. Therefore, there are few places in Norway where it is not a chain store, the new form of nearby store. The buyer on the corner has turned down the old sign, but is often franchise buyer for other people's ideas. It was precisely this the big chains in Norwegian grocery trade that looked earlier than most, and they have given the market what the market would have. The result is that today they control 98 pst. of trade in the grocery stores, including distribution channels and purchases of goods. It has created wealth, it has created lower prices, and it has created a profitable industry that is now expanding in new industries. But it has also helped to increase the requirement for profitability in gambling industries, for example. Norwegian Typing, gas stations and postal services, and it's helped to make the speed of the shop's death, to use the dramatic concept, have also increased. As these shops disappeared to major places in the neighbourhood, municipal centres or regional centres, the customers who were most purchasers also disappeared. Therefore, if the profitability is to be returned to the local shops, consideration should be given to the possible return of these services to the local environment. That's the only way we can guarantee future profitability. And that was the reason why the ministry launched the MERKUR programme in 1996, as a substitute for the direct support provided. SV wants with his proposal, as I see it, to help reverse the time. The MERKUR programme is today a publicly funded rescue network for the most vulnerable shops, but it is a prerequisite that they have a plan and that they have ideas about a new future. This MERKUR programme, which the Ministry of Local Affairs is part of, together with the industry itself, has helped to save many of the shops that want to do something. 500 shops are currently part of the MERKUR programme. They have increased turnover, and some of the reverse operation is that the store is provided with new tasks, such as Mail in Store, hairdresser, cafeteria and tasks that can be solved in a cheaper way. When a unanimous committee asks the Ministry to evaluate the MERKUR programme, it is my opinion that, in the next round, perhaps we should point out the MERKUR programme so that it is even more directed towards branches, often island communities, where the distance is particularly large and travel time is long. A new direct aid will therefore not solve the problem for the edge shops. On the other hand, I believe that the solution lies in the fact that the local store is offered to carry out public tasks. The government is working on modernising, streamlining and simplifying the public sector. This work opens up more flexible, user-oriented organisational models for the public service sector. The government should assess the role of the local store in making public services more accessible so that the local shops are given new jobs that can increase profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e138	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e141	The representative Michael Momyr says that SV wants to reverse the time. Sometimes it may be appropriate to reverse the time. We see that the EU country Sweden has now decided to put in place a number of support schemes for the local shops, precisely because they see that it is necessary to cut back on time. Does the representative Momyr think that the EU Member State Sweden and other EU Member States are slowing back when they now show an active attitude towards providing support to the local shops?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e148	In general, I believe that giving direct operating support, regardless of industry, is a less appropriate way of contributing to development than if one were to, for example, a company. use arrangements under the MERKUR programme. I have never believed that direct support schemes are the way to go. That's why it's a point for me that we start from the MERKUR programme, evaluate strong and weak aspects of it, and that in the next round we'll be able to sharpen the program so that we reach the shops that have the greatest need. About using direct support: Yes, I stand firm by saying that, in my opinion, it is not to turn the time forward, but to turn it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e153	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e156	As has been said earlier, there is a consensus that closer cooperation with the food chain should be taken into account in order to ensure the provision of retail services to those who live most remotely. It's a challenge because no one wants to run stores – or, for that matter, other business – without a earner's money on it, at least you won't lose money on it. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is difficult to imagine that one should be able to subsidise to such an extent that one can either continue to operate an existing store or establish new ones. When one so knows it's just 2 pst. there is no doubt that there are currently large economic surpluses in the food trade which can help to find solutions. The wish of the working party is that solutions should be available so that without excessive travel time it is possible to meet their needs in relation to the retail trade. It is not just in the case of trade in goods that it is a challenge to live in the outlying municipalities. As soon as the shops have closed down, the gas stations have also disappeared. This is, as I said, a challenge, where we politically want people to have their offers, but no one is willing to lose money or run with loss. The MERKUR programme is outlined by some in the food chain as a way to go. I am therefore pleased that the Committee asks the Government to consider carrying out a new evaluation of the programme. This, together with the decision that closer cooperation must be taken with these chains, means that I have great faith that it is possible to focus on these challenges. So, of course, someone would say that putting this in focus doesn't help much if it doesn't actually do anything. In this way, the proposal from the SV and the Central Party is a concrete proposal. The reason why the Workers' Party cannot agree to the proposal is that the direct support system that we had worked to a small extent. That is why, in 1996, we replaced it with the MERKUR programme. When we believe that evaluation and cooperation are the way to go, it is with a background in the strong role of the chains in the food market. Not least, we believe that the State must take responsibility for coordinating some services that shops can offer to the public. And I want, without moralizing, to recommend more to the chains – which currently have great profits – to also engage in the social task of getting everyone to have their daily food needs covered, without having to travel unreasonablely far.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e167	Although some edge shops really have breathing difficulties and need oxygen, we agree with the majority of the committee that reintroducing a passive system in the form of public money support is not the way to go in this case. Experience with operating grants previously granted was that it was perceived as a fixed contribution to the operation of the store rather than as an incentive for profitable operations. There are so many other and better ways to run a store in the future, we believe in the Progress Party. Of course, the most important thing is the ability and willingness of the self-employed storekeeper to develop their own business. Actually, he does not experience anything other than the experience of many other small and competitive enterprises and businesses, namely sharp competition, where much is determined by his own efforts and those of his fellow workers. Here it's important to use ingenuity and see opportunities, we mean. I'll do some examples. Sjur Gran on Revetal was brought forward by the trade journal Fritt Køpmannskap and named ‘Køpmann of the Year 2001’. Although his business is not particularly central to it, bangard's bet on service and full range has contributed to attracting customers from a large area. He has also stressed that the store should be a meeting place. Another example being drawn out is Coop Mega at Røros. Here they have a separate department with locally produced food where they offer more than 50 products. This contributes to increasing turnover. So if only the will and the ability are strong enough to do this in a good deal of cases. There are also other opportunities to arouse a positive interest in the situation of the edge shops. The local population can engage strongly. It has been established in a few years around 50 public limited-liability companies operating the last stores. Furthermore, it is affordable that the large chains have linked a number of edge shops to their purchasing system without requiring them to profile themselves like Rema, Rimi or Prix. Thus, these shops have been able to benefit from reasonable purchases in large quantities without having to comply with chain requirements for sampling, performance and streamlined operations. But this must be based on voluntary action, and no pressure from politicians, we believe. The party welcomes the fact that it is now necessary to follow up the shops participating in the MERKUR and to assess economic developments in comparison with non-participating shops. It is a responsibility to get the most out of public funds. It is then possible to confirm that the MERKUR measures have actually given more viable and robust shops and fewer closures, not only in some cases, but in a larger context. Political parties can also contribute to the reduction of shop deaths and rather create optimism through a strong reduction of taxes, taxes and public intervention, as it creates significant problems with the level of taxation of the commercial industry today. Border trade can be partly attributed to high taxes on alcohol and tobacco. In 2000, 85 pst. of the eastern folds traded once or more in Sweden, 85 pst. of the Finns’ mark(s) once or more in Finland and 50 pst. by the inhabitants of East Agder once or more in Denmark. Here, politicians have a job to do in tax policy, so that much more is tempted to act in their own country. We have a job to do when it comes to lifting some restrictions imposed on the trading industry. This could be done, for example, by: These include opening hours and authorization provisions. The party currently has a proposal for a treatment to open up the sale of beers and wine in grocery stores and specialised stores. If these products can be sold where most people buy their groceries, it will mean a vitamin injection for the trade in the districts. We also have to do something about the form field and the registration obligation that pushes down the merchant. The number of forms is still increasing. It is a comprehensive regulatory framework that is particularly tough when margins are small. So there's a lot of ways to deal with this problem, so we don't have a big store death. Here, the Progress Party will make a significant contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e193	The term ‘outline’ defines the representative Hedstrøm and I clearly differ. When the representative Hedstrøm draws Røros as an example on a outskirts, I would say that Røros for me is part of the central areas of Norway. With the edge in this context, we're thinking about places where you actually have to drive a boat for an hour in the ocean. Then you get to an island community with maybe 70, 100, 120 inhabitants who have a local store that has a hundred percent customer connection, but which simply has too few inhabitants to get goods in a simple way. In this Document, No: The 8 is not based on communities like Røros, which is almost an urban area. Here we are talking about societies that we have a lot of in Norway, both in the West, in the interior, and not least in North Norway, where we have small viable communities, but which unfortunately are so small that with the margins a merchant has, it is not possible to run a store there and have a decent income. See the representative Hedstrøm difference between Røros and e.g. Utsira or Sandland in Finnmark, where there are 70-80 inhabitants, when he talks about support for edge shops? Or is he looking at Røros and a kind of society that has the same types of challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e203	There is considerable mobility in the Norwegian people. The ratio is that due to the rural policy that has been in place over the last decades — which has also been the responsibility of SV — almost half of the population live in the eastern region. The representative Ryan also has to admit that when the population base is no longer there, when some people live scattered here and there, the nutritional basis of an establishment is also gone. It's a mobile pattern. The Progress Party, as I mentioned in my main post, wants to use far more general instruments, such as lower taxes and taxes, and to provide alternatives. But we will be realistic. When you read the investigation that has been carried out on support schemes for the edge shops, you will see that, for example: Sweden, where selective support has been provided in a number of areas, has only exposed these problems. There have been a number of closures in the 1990s and around 2000, despite all selective support and grant schemes that SV now wants us to introduce in Norway. We don't want to look at the galleon that maybe at a little later – but finally – will give the same result.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e210	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e213	In my post, I will explain why I think this by providing support for out-of-street local shops is of the best district policy that can be pursued in this country – and of the most reasonable measures we can take. But first of all, I would like to say to the representative Hedstrøm – who was on the platform just before me – that SV has never conducted a policy where we don't want to support the very least societies. Unfortunately, SV has not been in a position to implement its district policy. That day will come, and then Hedstrom will see what kind of district policy SV will lead. So over to why it's important to bet on the local store. I want to give three reasons for that. Firstly, it is said that the local store is absolutely essential for people to get access to ordinary groceries in a simple and rational way – without having to drive a car or boat far from the farm. Secondly, in the process of renewing the public sector — which is also the focus of this government — I think the local store can do an excellent job as a public service office in the community it represents. This means that simple municipal and simple state services can be added to the local store so that it can function as a small public service office for the community concerned. The purchaser must receive training and financial compensation to perform precisely these types of services. So let's think about this. locations where the library has one hour of opening per week. If you add the library to the local store, it will be open every day. I could have mentioned a number of other examples if I had had longer speaking time. My third reason for keeping the local store is that it is an important informal social meeting place for people in the countryside. Like people in the city who walk around the malls and eat and talk, people in rural areas also need an informal meeting place. A coffee hook where you can sit down and turn off a chat with both neighbors and other people in the countryside is hugely important for the coherence of a village. If the local store disappears, all three functions will be lost — the social meeting place, the possibility of some simple public services, and – not least – the ability to obtain groceries in a simple and rational way. I think the merchant in Utkant-Norway is one of our best district workers. I could imagine giving a tribute to the Norwegian merchant, who in many outback communities is on from morning to evening, who takes out a very modest salary. We should value it as a big deal – by making a contribution so that he has the opportunity to continue his idealistic work in this way. Countries with close shop support today have not always had it – not Sweden, not the United Kingdom, nor France. However, they have introduced it because they have seen that it is necessary in the rural policy pursued by the EU. Thus, both for environmental and housing reasons, they have put in place a number of support schemes for the local shops — both in relation to maintaining shops and in relation to bringing goods to people. There are also other arrangements. In Sweden, you can get NOK 200,000 per person. years in support of a local store. I am therefore surprised and disappointed at the government parties, which once again only have beautiful words in terms of district policy. When you make suggestions for a few concrete steps, there's nothing out of it. I agree with the representative Momyr when he speaks positively about the MERKUR program, and when he speaks positively about a number of other things in relation to the districts. But when it comes to reality and you're going to try to make a decision so that these shops really get rocked, there's nothing out of it. A major weakness of this government and district policy is that one is unusually good at using words, but unusually weak in action. I would like, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, to include the minority proposal in the file.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e236	Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e239	I will first give tribute to the proposer for including this topic in Document No. The 8-proposal, even though I feel that the way it's looked at may be a little colored by an unnecessary rhetoric, but I don't think I'm sufficiently prepared to apply for a positive tool, which in total can lead to what the proposer is looking for. Support for the edge shops was discontinued, and the MERKUR programme was established with the support of the Christian People's Party. MARKUR builds up skills, and also suggests that one can get common services associated with off-site shops that have been postponed, especially when the population is declining. We have had a certain effect by adding mail, libraries, cafeterias and other services to shops on the edge. This is a positive step. I can imagine that municipalities need to take greater responsibility for the further development of local services. Municipalities have a responsibility towards the inhabitants around the circuits for having a service office. There are a number of services that residents have the right to do, which municipalities should try to locate at these centres. That is why I want the responsibility to be placed somewhat more locally. Then you see a possibility, you see a problem, and then you can solve it together. In addition, I would like to challenge some communities. I think that's how the slogan I once saw at a store says, "Use us today, and you'll have us tomorrow." Many of the trade leaks that are taking place today, either in Sweden, in cities or in supermarkets, are, in my opinion, a wrong strategy for the individual citizen. It is very little economic to travel long distances – spent time, petrol and money, whether it is to Sweden or to other places. Use your local store, and it will be more likely to survive. This is a censure that I think we have to send out to many communities, because that's where the primary responsibility lies. I also want to develop an experience that I got when I was visiting a farm in North Dakota. There's the big distances and the big backyards. They didn't have stores. They were closed. Suddenly, a large car drove into the garden room — a bus shop with a wide range of goods that ran on farms twice a week to meet the needs of local communities. It was the way one had solved this problem in an area that is nutritionally strong, but where there are very few people. It can also be an alternative in some small Norwegian communities. In addition, I am told that wholesalers refuse to drive goods out to local stores with a small customer base. Then I have to say that I react, especially when I see that many of those who buy the chains, the wholesaler, have a billion-dollar surplus. There is a serious lack of social responsibility when, instead of being willing to drive goods out to some small shops, they say they have to buy their goods in other shops, then sell them out again in their district stores. It's an insult, and it shows a ownership with very little sense of community and little responsibility. I would ask the rapporteur to turn II into a transmission proposal today, on the basis that the majority in Stortinget will not vote for this proposal. We are some of the intention of the Ministry to continue working on these ideas, and we have full confidence from the Government Party that the good intentions of this debate and the discussion of this Document No. The 8 proposal will be implemented by the Ministry in an active attempt to build a better foundation for the edge shops in the future. In order not to vote against the proposal, and to show confidence in the Government, I would ask the proposer to turn II into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e258	The centre party was initially pleased that there was such a degree of consensus in the Committee on the importance of the local community local store. After listening to the debate, I'm a little unsure whether there's really as much consensus as what's coming out of the vote, but we'll get back to that. It is true, as the case-rapporteur pointed out, that there have been major changes in the structure of grocery stores. Chain formations have been particularly important and currently account for a very large proportion of the entire range of grocery stores. I also think it's right that the consumption pattern has changed significantly, and that people's buying and trading habits are different from what they were just 10-20 years ago. At the same time, we see that one in particular in the districts is struggling to meet the most basic needs for the purchase of groceries, and that is what this is all about. It is not a question of having different brands or different types of groceries, but it is simply a matter of having an opportunity and a right to buy groceries within an affordable distance of home. That's what we're discussing about the local store. We have seen a trend in which a greater number of services have been seen in the context of the different communities. I think that's basically good. This concerns the possibility of seeing mail and groceries in the context, the possibility of seeing petrol and groceries in the context, and other services, and in particular public services. But this is not necessarily uncomplicated for the individual local store. The question is whether the agency that wants its services performed in the local store compensates adequately. It is a significant discussion theme, not least in relation to the postal service added to the store. In sum, adding more services to a local store does not mean a burden on the store, but on the contrary, it leads to increased robustness for the shops concerned. That's why I think it's important what's being underlined by a majority of the committee, namely that the public has a responsibility, both in terms of compensating for the services of each department that are provided in the local store, and also in terms of the relationship between the agencies that want to offer their services in the local store. The Committee strongly agrees that one will look at how the MERKUR programme can be improved and at a possible re-evaluation of the programme. It is good that it is requested, and it is important that one looks particularly at the experience that has been gained in our neighbouring country in terms of support schemes. The centre party and SV have their own proposal that we want a separate scheme to be established related to the shops where the travel distance to the nearest purchase option is particularly large. We underline the importance of this. These are the shops where the representative Ryan was in, where it may be a very long way to get the most basic groceries. I have never quite understood the point that it should be problematic to reverse time. I think that looking back can be wise sometimes, both to look at how things have been changed, and to learn from mistakes that may have been made. That's what some of us want to point out. Here, things may have been done that are wrong, and in the opinion of the Centre Party and the SV, it is wrong that a person cannot have a direct support scheme linked to those who are the most vulnerable. That's what this is all about. But we might disagree a little bit about what's really an edge shop. When the representative Hedstrøm refers to Coop Mega at Røros as an edge shop, I think it's a bit remarkable. It is not the kind of shops I have on my tongue first when I talk about edge shops, and not even when we are talking about a separate proposal on direct support arrangements for edge shops. Then it's about completely different types of shops. I think it's important for the Center Party to stress that we're not discussing whether local communities should have the right to live or not. Our starting point is that when people want to live somewhere, they also have to trade the most elementary groceries and food they're going to eat, so get the most necessary errands done, without having to travel for hours. That's why I think the representative Hedstrøm's starting point here really shows how little the Progress Party understands about the Norwegian district policy, and what the Norwegian outlying areas are struggling with. Local communities take a big responsibility. I think a lot of municipalities do too. However, I do not agree with the representative, Gedrem, that the municipalities will assume a greater responsibility in this area if it means enough a simple solution to avoid liability by reading it to the municipalities. It's often the state agency does when they don't find their own solution, or don't want to give more money – they're teaching it to the municipalities. This should not be the case with regard to the role of the local shops or with regard to the services of the public authorities in relation to the local store. State agencies should take responsibility here and should coordinate between the performance of that type of service and its compensation. With regard to the question of whether the proposal for a proposal for a second reading can be transformed into a transmission proposal, we will, on the part of the majority of the Committee, consider it at the end of this debate, in particular as we expect signals from the Council of State and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e295	There are two aspects in the last article where I feel the need for some clarification. Firstly, in its proposal, the Centre and the SV say that: ‘on behalf of the Government in the context of the 2003 State Budget, proposals for financial compensation for shops located very far from the nearest purchasing option’. In my opinion, there is a low level of precision on this proposal, and it is difficult to interpret whether there is distance, whether there is time, kilometers or other criterion, as operating results, the number of shops in the vicinity, which should be decisive. Therefore, I feel that the proposal that is being made has a very low level of precision and has little use. The second relationship I want to discuss concerns the assessment by the representative Arnstad of my view of the responsibility of the community. I would argue that in many contexts – I say in the light of many years of vocabulary – it is the communities themselves that have primary responsibility when it comes to living conditions, contacts, services, the will to survive, the ability to create a quality society, and their responsibility to take care of existing services in order to keep them tomorrow. Therefore, I believe that the Storting should be less involved in local relations. Today, locals who are more privileged than ever to use both wired and other means of communication will always be able to have acceptable contacts with the outside world. Today, it is actually possible to live in places where it would never be possible before. Therefore, I believe that the challenge should primarily be returned to the communities. Save yourself, and the public will contribute if there's enough spark in the community to fail to survive. I actually think that one will create a better future for many communities if they take responsibility themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e309	Let me make a little confession first, and that is that the level of precision in this proposal may not be quite great. But then I would also like to say that there is nothing new in this room that some proposals are not marked by a very precise design. We are, on the part of the Central Party and the SV, seafaringly open that the Government, when it comes back to the Stortinget with a proposal, may be allowed to design the more detailed criteria. But we're saying that this has to be about very long travel distances. Whether it's in time or in kilometers, in a lot of cases, the two things are going to be coincident. If there are many kilometers, it will often take a long time. But we can be open to give the government the freedom of action to design the more detailed criteria for that. I believe, like the representative Gedrem, that most communities take a great deal of responsibility for the development of service provision in the alleys and towns that form part of the local community. I'm not in doubt about that. They fight for it every day. But what we're talking about here, and that's commented especially on by the committee, is that there's an increasing number of public agencies that can imagine offering services through the local store. We see that the Post has done it. But there is a lot of discussion around the country about the Post is willing to pay what is actually required to perform Post in Store. And I believe that it's a state responsibility to assess, not a municipality. This also applies to other public services that may be offered through service offices, which may be placed under a local store or under other public services. We must not read about this to the municipalities, which must be included in the government's responsibility. And that's what we're saying about the setting. I think a lot of communities, when they fight for the existence of, among other things. their local shops, feel that the support of the large community today in relation to past times is small, not only in terms of concrete support in terms of economics and professionalism, but also in terms of support in terms of simply understanding what district policy is all about, and what local society means.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e318	To this end, with the definition of an edge shop: shall it be the last store in a municipality or in an area with a certain number of customers, or is there any other criteria to be taken into account? Of course, this can be discussed. But what this debate boils down to when it comes to providing support for possible edge shops is that there is a limit. Of course, the individual must be allowed to live and work where it will in our long-range country, but where does the outer limit go for society and the public to set up a service system in many different areas? I'm assuming that for the Center Party, too, there's a limit to this. I'm counting on one person like that. living on an island in the gulf, is not enough for the public to set up with a fully-fledged service apparatus. So my question to the Center Party is, where does this central party limit go?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e324	This debate slows down the view of an overall committee that the MERKUR programme is positive. It should be evaluated, and some of us believe that there should be a little more offensive. It is important that the entire Committee is involved. Then it boils down to the fact that the Senterpartiet and SV believe that for some shops for which there is a very long travel distance, there should be a possibility of direct support. It is not for the public to set up a service appliance, because it is the local merchant who will perform that service. Many of the local entrepreneurs who have endured for a long time – and that is part of it – are the ones who provide the service to people in the community. It's not public. But they should be supported in order to develop it further. The centre party's starting point is that when a living and working place, one must have the opportunity to buy groceries in order to cope with everyday life. And it should be possible for one to have the opportunity without having to travel the country and the beach around. Then I understand that the representative Hedstrom wanted a discussion about whether one person is sufficient or not. There's a debate I'm not going to go into. But I would like to show to the Progress Party that there are an incredible number of communities in the country that have 50, 100, 150, 250 inhabitants. They're going to have an offer to buy the most elementary of the goods they want, and they're going to be able to do that without having to drive for miles to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e333	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e336	The government sees the important role of the store in many small communities in the districts, especially in places where the distance to the nearest centre is large. It is therefore an important task for the Government to have a targeted policy to ensure the viability of food shops in smaller communities. The Ministry is currently working on these challenges through the MERKUR programme, which is an abbreviation for the commercial competence programme for edge shops – to take the mythical away from the concept. The objective of the MERKUR programme is: facilitating the maintenance of a high-quality service provision in the districts by further developing and strengthening existing service provision to ensure that the local community in the districts access to a grocery shop at or near the place of residence contributes to an increasing understanding of the population and of policy-makers of the importance of the grocery store in the local environment. It is therefore a three-fold objective which also contributes to the political environment bringing into focus the importance of food shops for small communities. Through the work carried out under the auspices of the MERKUR programme, I believe that the challenges that the setting points to are well addressed. The work is focused on increasing the competence of retail operations, facilitating the provision of new services and the importance of local involvement to ensure the continued operation of shops. I would like to stress that the MERKUR programme is working closely towards the largest food chains in Norway. The government will continue and further develop the work done through the MERKUR programme. Through this programme, a main focus from the beginning of 1995 has been on providing new services to small shops that are struggling with the economy due to low turnover. In outlying areas throughout the country, there is a clear cooperation with different actors who buy services in small shops. I want to mention here in particular Post in Store and tipping. Municipal services have also been added to the store. In order to gain experience and knowledge, the MERKUR programme, in cooperation with the foreign municipality project, decided to set up a project in five outlying municipalities in Nord-Troms and Finnmark – Gamvik, Lebesby, Loppa, Kvänangen and Måsøy. Here a number of services were provided to the local shops. The project is special, precisely because close contact is established between the municipality’s political and administrative management and the nearby store. In the first row, municipal services are concerned with information and communication to the various local authorities, but library activities are also part of the experiment. In addition, mail, tipping and fuel sales are in some cases added to the shops. In the pilot project, MECUR has helped to make financial contributions to stimulate the provision of services. Any continuation assumes that the municipalities and others receiving services cover the costs incurred by the shops in this respect. But the feedback from the participants is positive. This indicates that it is going to be possible to arrive at a reasonable arrangement, so that this can continue even after the project period. I would like to stress that it is a prerequisite for the Government that the public agencies – as well as other service providers – have to pay the shops to have the services performed. A more detailed report on the project now taking place in these municipalities will be available in a year's time. The report will contribute to the preparation of further work on the MERKUR. It is a wish of the Government that such a trial project — as well as other experience in this area — can further facilitate the organisation of other services that can be added to edge shops. It is now four years since the MERKUR programme was evaluated. The programme aims to be dynamic, in the sense that it will be able to adapt to emerging challenges and needs. To this end, the Government, as the Committee points out, will carry out a re-evaluation of the work carried out and carried out under the Programme. In such a review, it may be appropriate to look at other countries’ ways of addressing the challenges of ensuring viable shops in outlying areas. Another point pointed out by the Committee is how cooperation with the food chain should be further developed. As mentioned earlier, the MERKUR programme has been in close contact with the food chain today. I welcome the fact that further development of this cooperation will be part of the further development of the MERKUR programme. The Committee points out in its position that the State has a responsibility to coordinate state agencies and enterprises responsible for the services it may be appropriate to add a local store. This coordination work will be followed up through the national project with public service offices. I want to take an initiative with the Ministry of Labour and Administration to look at the opportunities available, in order to find solutions to the challenges facing the most peripheral areas in ensuring a satisfactory service provision for the local population, including through the grocery store.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e370	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e373	Governments are right in much of what she said. She is right that the MERKUR programme has worked very well in increasing the competence of many local shops around Norway. But the problem is that some places in this country are so small that regardless of whether they have the best skills in the world, they don't have enough customers to get the store to go in such a way that it becomes profitable. That's where the problem lies. The MERKUR programme is excellent for maybe 90-95 pst. of our local shops, but then there are some shops that have such a thin population base that it is not possible to run economically, regardless of whether you have 100 MERKUR programs. My question is therefore: is the Council willing to look at these kinds of shops in a completely different way from the shops that you generally talk about when you talk about local stores? In fact, we are talking about a type of aid scheme, but not a purely subsidisation. We have a lot of subsidisation of different services in this country. Just think about what we're subsidizing opera tickets and theatre tickets with in this country – for every performance! In this context, we are talking about support schemes for local shops that provide some public services, not passive support, but small retail stores that, in addition to selling groceries, perform some public services, but which nevertheless do not make it go around. Is the Council willing to look at these types of marginal shops in a different way from the general proximity stores we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e380	I believe it is important to support the grocery stores with public services that can be provided. I think the modernisation of the public sector is good. I have found that the first start-up with e.g. Post in Butikk, which was a district policy tool because it was difficult to maintain the post offices around, now is actually going to give everyone who lives in Oslo West, a better postal offer. During the spring you will have mail shops that are open until noon. 23, because the idea that has come from a district policy perspective has been pursued and brought back. But when it comes to the question of whether we want to do something special for those shops that don't have a large enough customer base, even with the introduction of this competence and the work done through the MERKUR programme, through direct support, I don't want to respond positively to that. The reason why I do not respond positively is that we are facing a major reform of regional and district policy instruments. I do not want to add new leads in terms of what we are going to spend regional and district policy instruments and money on, in a process where this government is going to go in order for us to transfer the funds on these chapters to the county councils, and where the county councils are to much greater extent going through their regional development programmes to design regional and district policies. That's why it's wrong for me today to start putting new leads into a program where I really think we're going to decentralize the authority. But since we're facing such a reform, I don't think it's right that we start adding new leads to where the money is going. That's what I'm going to respect. I want the county councils themselves to be allowed to do so in the future, and that is why I do not make any new promises about this type of instrument here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e387	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e392	Let me first say that I have a considerable sense of the intentions of the proposer in relation to this Document No. The 8 proposal, for the importance of the local store in the most special outlying areas, cannot be overestimated and is probably as important as the school and kindergarten. In fact, the number of stores of this standard has been halved in the last twenty years. However, although the number of shops is halved to approx. 4 800 today, we still have a larger store density in Norway than, for example, Sweden, some of which have referred to earlier in the debate. We actually have a density of 25 pst. on what the Swedes have and can offer, and in addition we have a more decentralised structure in Norway. I share Inge Ryan's view that we have to try to find out more accurate arrangements. When he defines the most marginal types of shops, it gets to be the next challenge. To leave this means that it will be linked to a state support, I don't think it will be the way to success. Because of centralization, it has become increasingly fewer people to sell milk, bread, soap or whatever it may be, to, especially in District Norway. The challenge must be to get more binding arrangements in relation to what we have from public and other institutions – such as Posten, Norsk Typing, Spedition Services and other municipal services – that can help us achieve what we want more. That is why the Council of State refers, in my opinion, to the presentation of a report on the premises for further work on the MERKUR programme. What is in the Committee's recommendation in section II, which specifically refers to the food chain, is relatively inconclusive. The owners of the food chains are not well-known for what they are doing for free. I have understood the representative Arnstad's definition of his own proposal so that the level of precision may be a little low, so I strongly recommend that you send this to the Government. I'm also going to contribute to this getting the follow-up that the Council of State has been having today, to find alternative solutions to achieve the goals I think we all agree that we are going to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e405	The question is whether the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are willing to do about their proposal for a transmission proposal, and we are! Why are we doing this? Well, because we actually want this case to go further in the government. We also interpret part of the state council's statements to that point that she, among other things. will see what Sweden has done. It indicates that there is movement in the cause. Then it is important for us that that movement does not stop by that we put the matter dead here in Stortinget. Perhaps at next year's state budget or at a later crossroads, we can get some solutions that will allow us to store the small local shops that many of us are concerned about, so that we can avoid some small communities being evicted. That is why we support the proposal that was put forward for transmission to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e418	Then we are ready for voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e425	During the debate, Mr Ryan has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for financial compensation in respect of the 2003 State Budget to be submitted by the Government to shops that are very far from the closest purchasing options.’ It should be noted that the Coastal Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-14.ana.ud1818e456	During the debate, the vote on the proposal for a second reading was converted into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government initiate closer cooperation with the food chain in order to ensure retail outlets in our most marginal areas of residence.’ The President proposes that the proposal in this form be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
