ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e28	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e33	I'd like to suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e38	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e52	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The President will also draw Odelstinget's attention to the fact that this list of speakers now looks like an opportunity for us to be finished at the morning meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e65	It has been shown over time that there is a need to soften some rules around this with a name. A joint committee agrees with the Government that although a name is a way of identifying individuals, it is primarily a personal matter. Against this background, the Committee supports the main theme of the legislative proposal, which involves less involvement of the public and greater flexibility and freedom of the individual. Being able to have two surnames appears to be a good solution, not least it is an advantage where there is a desire to use more than one of the family names in order to show its belonging. One then gives a greater opportunity to refer to its origin, to more than one family line. The fact that one then wants to use a hyphen to show the difference between having two surnames compared to having one surname and one middle name appears, as the Committee sees it, to be a straightforward and practical solution. By providing the possibility of two surnames, the respective names will also have a larger user group. One must expect more people to take advantage of the possibility of using just two surnames. There will again be an impact on the protection of the respective family names. It is such that when a person uses two surnames, both names will be registered to a user, taking into account the requirement for released names. A majority of Right, Christian People's Party and SV have therefore made a significant deterioration in the protection of names when they both want to increase the number of users and, at the same time, lower the limit on the protection of family names from 500 to 200 users. The minority, consisting of the Labour Party and the Advance Party, believe that the decoration made in the context of a person’s being able to take a protected name right up to his or her parents is sufficient. At the same time, one will be able to refer to a certain connection to the name. In this respect, it is also worth noting that in the submission from the Government it is stated that there is no lack of name in Norway. In the case of first names, the Committee agrees that it should clearly do so before the denial of names. It is therefore appropriate to require that the name must be a significant disadvantage to the carrier before the name is refused. This will also simplify the processing of name requests, not least where users want a slightly more unusual or rare name. In relation to the protection of names, the spelling is taken into account. So it's no longer a question of equivalent or confusing names. In view of the fact that a name is a name as long as it is spelled in a specific way and that, in such a way, it is solely the spelling that is essential for the maximum protection requirement, the Progress Party considers that protected names must be treated as such regardless of what is incidentally the applicable spelling standard. It becomes a little strange that protected names are released because they match the current spelling, while unprotected surnames, for example. has an additional h, which is not the current spelling. As an example, it can be illustrated by the surname Dal/Dahl, with and without h, where the surname with h is not protected, while the name that does not have h is protected and where it is now stated that all can take the protected name because it complies with the applicable spelling standard. In the case of organisation, where name changes etc. shall be located and notified, shall be regarded as competence and rapid processing as essential components. With the long term of the proceedings of the county councillors, a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV have concluded that the first instance of name-finding should remain with the population registers. When one now reduces the number of public registers offices to 99, a few will have the necessary pooling of skills in the population registers. It is also important in this context to note that the population registers will continue to be co-located with the equality offices and thus provide good access to legal assistance if necessary. Today, first instance treatment is essentially a matter for the population registers, so that competence already exists at this level. As far as the Board of Appeal is concerned, it has been found that it belongs naturally to the county. Whether the Government wants to have this in all the counties in general, or whether it wants to bring it together with some statesmen, is an issue of appropriateness, where quality must be crucial. I want to address our proposal, and in this context I would like to say that I am delighted to hear the minority's explanation of their organisational model, as it stands as something unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e95	André Kukkestad has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e98	It has been said here that the name is personal, and I fully agree with that. I think that name is what stands strongest in terms of our own identity. Maybe that's what we're all connected to. Name is also a symbol of tradition. The name tradition is strong in Norway, just as it is in all other countries, and therefore it may be a bit sensitive for many. Personally, I don't think a change or decoration of the name law will lead to people running man of houses to change their names, just because of what I said first. The name is such a large part of our identity that I think most people actually choose to keep their name as it is today. Nevertheless, in the Workers' Party we believe that it should be possible to change their name to a greater extent than it is today. We've seen examples of people wanting to change their names to a greater extent than before, and it's time for an embellishment. Name traditions vary from society to society, depending on religion, relationships with relatives and the evolution of modern society. Cohabitation has become a more common form of life, and eventually also a more stable form of life. In Norway, we have an institutionalized name change only by marriage. But it's one of the most common, as more and more people choose to keep their original family name by marriage. So I'm very happy that it opens up so that cohabitants can get access to take each other's last name and choose the name for themselves and their children. Therefore, access for cohabitants to choose the name in line with spouses could indirectly equate children born outside marriage with children born in marriage. The proposal also allows people to form double surnames in the form of two simple surnames combined with hyphen. I note that a majority of the hearing bodies support this proposal. In this way both parents' surnames can be continued, and families can form a common surname without the surname of one spouse, partner or registered partner having to give up. Society is changing faster than before, and the impulses of the outside world are stronger than before. We cannot, through legislation, meet or anticipate the need for change, but legislation can try to facilitate diversity and flexibility. I believe that the bill today does, at least to a greater extent. It is essential that the rules of the Naming Act are as much as possible the same for all persons residing in Norway, regardless of their culture, background, religion, etc. I believe that this prevents discrimination, and it is important for integration that immigrants can continue their naming traditions. The proposal takes far more account of foreign names than the current law, including: the rule that no new names of foreign language or spelling should be authorised is deleted. So a little bit to the previous speaker. The name protection scheme - protection of surnames - is maintained. However, the majority of the Committee considers that the limit of protection should be reduced from 500 to 200, inter alia. having regard to the complexity of legal protection, and the need for less protection. The Labour Party disagrees. Over half of the population today have legally protected surnames, and we agree with the principle that there should be strong reasons to prevent people from taking the name they want. At the same time, a bit of the point with the number of legally protected names is that one is assured that the name cannot be taken without connection or consent from all those who bear the name, and who I was referring to initially: when the name is such a strong part of our identity, there is also something we want to protect, we do not want others to just be able to use our own name. And it's important for many, given that names often have local traditions, it says a lot about our own kinship, etc. In view of the fact that there are many unused surnames that just offer good choices, we do not see the need for a reduction. Although legal protection provides protection in principle for some surnames, this is not about a right reserved for the few. Over half, as I said, of the population carries legal surnames. So there's a large number of people who will get reduced protection by name. In Denmark, we see that this is different. In principle, all surnames may be legally protected. Today’s legislative proposal also involves a change from three to two main bodies to deal with name issues. It should be the same body that has all the first reading of name changes, and adding this treatment to the population registers, with the counties as the Board of Appeal, will provide a more rational system than that provided by the Ministry. A regional body is the most closely related review body for the decision taken by the public register.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e119	Our name is an important part of our personality and social identity. We get our name at birth, and this will be a symbol of our entry into society. The government's proposal for a new personal name law involves significant simplification in relation to the former 1964 law. For this government, freedom and simplification are important policy objectives, and this is also followed up in the proposal for a new name law. People get more freedom to choose their names. Old family names and double surnames are allowed for those who want them. In the view of the Right, the right to choose a name shall lie with the population and the authorities should, to a lesser extent, review the wishes of the individual in such cases. It is important that legislation shows respect for the wishes that may be behind a choice of name, whether from tradition, culture or religion. In the last decades, Norwegian society has undergone major changes. Many citizens have backgrounds in other cultures with traditions and qualifiers that differ from the Norwegians. It is now possible for persons with a foreign naming tradition to continue this in Norway, for example. through access to take surnames as first name and vice versa where you have a background in a culture that does not distinguish first name from last name. In addition, we have experienced that some immigrants have had problems getting a job because they have had a foreign name. This can now be easier, for example. for some immigrants. This has the press, among other things. has been a problem for some environments, and name-changing, as is now possible, will make this easier for these groups. The law also gives greater freedom to continue or resume name traditions, including: in the Sami culture. You can now freely get surnames that tipped parents or grandparents have had. This freedom to take names with roots far back in its culture is an important contribution to the indigenous population and national minorities in order to preserve traditions and cultural heritage. In addition, this law is, in fact, also important for gender equality. Women's access to double surnames is facilitated. It was clarified from the Progress Party that there is a removal of the legal protection for surnames. We don't think so. We believe that with 200 people who have a surname, it is a good enough legal protection, against the fact that today there are 500 people who must be carriers of the name. There will also be substantial simplification, both according to the procedure and not least in relation to freedom of choice, so that should be the responsibility of the Progress Party. This is probably the biggest difference between the majority and the minority in terms of the change in the name law, that there is a reduction from 500 to 200 carriers of the name to get legal protection. But legal protection doesn't go away. It disappears for 600 000, but it does not disappear for 1.7 million Norwegians who still want legal protection. The representative Kukkestad asked about the organisational model that the Right and Christian People's Party is in favour of. It is true that the proposal by the Party of Advancement and the Right actually states how the practice of this whole system should be. It says: ‘If the public register finds that the notification is to be accepted without doubt, it shall be decided by the public register.’; That is to say, the People's Register is to deal with all the current matters, and the difficult matters are then sent to the County Council. I will quote again from the proposal: ‘If the public register finds that the notification is not to be accepted or if it is in doubt to be accepted, the case shall be transferred to the county State, which shall decide whether to accept the notification.’; I think it's a little paradox when the Progress Party here mentions lack of legal protection. This actually gives a very legal protection in the roll-call cases where there are really problems that may be difficult. Instead of having a population register, which we have a lot of places in Norway – it is well up to 100 population registers – you get 20 counties, which are supposed to interpret the law in the same way. In our view, it will then be a more consistent and consistent legal management and practice, which will safeguard the legal protection that the Progress Party is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e144	In principle, it may seem strange to have a law for names. Can't people call themselves what they want, and does anyone have anything with it if I want to call my child Trude, Trine, or Tussi? It was Trude. Here it may be appropriate to bring forward the favourite word of the great detective Hercule Poirot: order and method. That's what it's got to do. We have to get things right! If the name area were to be completely exempt from legislation, it would be easy to imagine that people changed their first and last names. It could easily create unsustainable conditions in our social system. Our name is an important part of our identity. We have strong naming traditions and clear rules for surnames, first names and middle names. In a society that is becoming increasingly diverse, there is also a development in the name field. That is why there is a need to adjust the legislation in this area, and we are doing so today. The Ministry of Justice has presented a fair and tidy legislative proposal, which has been largely approved by the Committee. The new law is well adapted to the current needs of the population. The term ‘relative name’ shall be replaced by ‘surname’, which corresponds to the daily number. Many surnames have been protected. This means that the person who wanted to take a protected name had to obtain permission from all those who bear the same surname. It is a fairly comprehensive job, as the limit of protected surnames has been set at 500. Although many people have a strong relationship with their surname, the Christian People's Party agrees with the ministry that there is no reason to make it too difficult to take a new last name. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the reduction of protected surnames from 500 to 200. It also opens for double extensions, which can be typed using hyphen. Double surnames shall be considered as two surnames. Many people want to be associated with more than one genus. It'll be easier to do with the new rules. The ability to take middle names is retained. You can also get a double middle name with a hyphen if you want. Two non-bonded surnames will be considered as middle and last names. So here it's important to be aware of the details! I guess we've all heard stories about strange first names. So far it has been that you have not been able to call the child something that has been a disadvantage to the child. Now the freedom of choice is increasing. There must be a significant disadvantage if the name cannot be used. There are cultures where surnames and first names are used together. There is no clear distinction between first and last names. There is no reason why this should not be practiced also among groups in Norway. It is therefore important to adapt the legislation. But it has to be documented that a surname has tradition, origin, as the first name for it to be used in this way. I'm not going to go into all the details in the setting. Those who are particularly interested in name tagging are encouraged to read the settings. This proposal can be seen as part of the process of making Norway simpler! As regards the proceedings, the Ministry proposed that all proceedings be transferred to the county office. As a result, the procedure could be reduced to two levels. With the old rules, there were three levels. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right, has stated that curative matters should continue to be the responsibility of the People's Registers. On the other hand, it is important to ensure that more dubious cases and rejection cases are dealt with by an instance with greater professional qualifications. That instance should be the county office. The Ministry shall be the Board of Appeal. The last point I want to comment on is the frequency of name change. Should you be able to change your name forever? This year's name is Ole Pedersen, and next year's name is Sverre Ole Pedersen. It could have been both interesting and entertaining, but would, of course, help create chaos in our well-regulated society. That's why it makes sense to set a limit on naming every ten years. Of course, there are some exceptions from this rule, for example: in the case of marriage. In this area too, the Christian People's Party appears to have made a good balance between the wishes of individuals and the needs of the great community.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e173	The President will ask the representative Einar Holstad if he wants to raise proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e176	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e181	The proposal is therefore concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e184	The Name Act has not been subject to a comprehensive revision since 1979. I see it as important that we get a name law that respects far more than today the diversity of motives behind people's wishes for names for themselves and their children. In my opinion, a name law should not unduly prevent the individual from taking the desired name, especially when the choice of name for many is a very personal matter. The proposal for a new name law contains several concrete proposals based on these considerations. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal that the first name and surname may be refused if it may be a ‘significant disadvantage’ to the person taking it and not just to ‘disapprove’ as the law of the day says. If in doubt, the question of a solid Norwegian name should be clarified now: The first name Harry will under no circumstances be refused if the Stortinget adopts the proposal. I also think that the protection of surnames after today's law has gone too far. Today there are over 120,000 different surnames in use. At the same time, only about 1,000 of these so-called free surnames, i.e. that any person may take the name without any special link being required. In return, almost 2.1 million people carry these free surnames. These numbers speak for themselves. Although names may not be described as scarce, the proposal to lower the protection to names that have 200 or fewer carriers leads people to more existing surnames to choose from: the number of free names will more than triple, to approx. 3,000. The legislative proposal also takes far more account of the name-codes of Sami, national minorities and immigrants than the current law. Today's name laws have given only limited opportunities to choose names according to their custom names. Norwegian society has increasingly become a multicultural society. This diversity should lead to a greater degree of tolerance and flexibility also through naming legislation. In my opinion, there can be no contradiction between caring for and developing the traditional Norwegian name culture and at the same time accepting that other cultures should be able to choose names according to their name labels. According to the law of the day, it is very difficult to choose two surnames associated with a hyphen – so-called double surname. The scheme that as a general rule one has been able to choose only one last name has led to a far greater degree of the man's surname than that of the woman being passed on to children. It has been possible to give the child's surname as a middle name. It must be clear, however, that gender equality considerations mean that a system should be introduced in which a curator may choose two surnames associated with a hyphen. The proposal for a double surname therefore gives people a much wider choice compared to today's name law. I would also like to highlight the proposal that consensual residents who have children in common or who have lived together for two years will be able to choose their names in line with their spouses. Cohabitation has gradually become very common in Norway. I do not see that there are sufficiently serious reasons why all the cohabitants should be denied the possibility of marking family relationships by, for example. to choose a common surname. The importance of common children also suggests that some consensual residents should be able to choose their names in line with their spouses. Name is an identification relevant to society. A more liberal name law can lead to possible disadvantages because the same person can make several name changes. It is therefore proposed that, as a general rule, no first name and surname should be renamed more than once every 10 years. Derogations shall be made, inter alia, by: marriages, adoption, cohabitation and where there are other specific reasons. This takes account of the individual's freedom on the one hand and the needs of society on the other. With regard to the management of the scheme, I note that in its position the Judicial Committee has not followed the proposal of the proposal to add the names to the counties as the first instance and the ministry as the Board of Appeal. I see that the proposal can cause disadvantages, for example: because the distance to the public can be large, while the county officials have a large number of curative naming issues to decide on. I see clearly the advantages promoted by the minority proposals, but will, of course, follow up on the Committee's position. Should implementation cause problems, I will come back to Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e209	In the case of the free names, the question is whether you have the opportunity to take the name without having any connection whatsoever, that is, you can initially find a family that has a name you think is nice or good, or that, if necessary, gives status, and then choose to take that name as your own. The Council of State says that names are not scarce, which was shown in a very good way in the proposition. But some people feel a need and a connection to a name because it gives them the feeling of being a unit. Is it to understand, then, that the Council of State believes that people’s desire to take any name without being associated with it – in order to provide a skin of attachment to a family that is not related to it – is more important than giving people with family ties such protection as the present law gives them?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e216	I expressed in my post that we, among other things. through the 10-year rule, there must be a balance between the interests of individual freedom and the stability of society. It is therefore proposed to lower the protection from surnames with fewer than 500 carriers to names with fewer than 200 carriers. We have, as I was told, 123 000 genealogies in Norway. Only approx. 1000 of these are free, so after the change, the number of free names is going to be above 3,000. It will still be so that very many will be protected by their name. And then what are we doing? Well, we're going into situations so that we avoid unnecessary proceedings. We will be able to find more easily the number of carriers – we can enter the name in the population register, as the representative himself is in favour of doing, and send a confirmation to the name applicant that the name has been granted. So it seems that 200 carriers over 500 would involve red tape and a simplification in terms of last name notifications. This comment has also been made by other speakers in the past. That is a position that I acknowledge, and which I addressed in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e225	The councils were up and presented their vision. Like the Progress Party, we in the Labour Party are a little concerned that someone can take the identity of ‘others’. It's like today that most of us have a name that we feel has to do with kinship, location, or in other ways something that binds our name to others around us, family, especially, or the place we come from. When we discuss the number of free names, I'm not sure that's what's necessarily the most important thing in this decoration of the name law, because people might choose names within their own kin when you want to change names. It's not necessarily that you want a completely different name, you want a name associated with it. In this way – if I have understood the name law correctly – it gives great access to name change, even if you don't necessarily have a large number of free names. So for the Workers' Party, it has not been the most important thing to debureaucratise – as the Council of State was in it – but we may not be so familiar with that either because we are concerned about it. I just want to ask the Council of State in what way he thinks that there will be a great red tape, and I think less red tape, by setting the limit on 200 carriers of a name instead of 500 carriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e232	We'd like to drill a little bit in bureaucracy. If the limit is set to 200 instead of 500, it will not be necessary to assess whether the applicant complies with the law under Section 4 of the bill in order to take a protected surname when the number of carriers of the requested name is less than 500, but more than 200. Nor will it be necessary for the bearers of the name to consent under the second paragraph of Section 2 of the bill. For example, there will be no need to assess whether the requested surname was the last name of the person concerned – Section 4, first paragraph, No. 4 of the bill. 1 – if the person fulfils the conditions to name the farm as last name – Section 4, first paragraph, No. 8 – or whether the person has a specific connection with the surname – Paragraph 4, first paragraph, No. 9th@item: inlistbox These are some examples. And that's what led me to draw the conclusion that I made. I am myself in the situation that the name Dørum – given that the majority of the committee becomes the majority of the Storting – becomes a free name. I'm positive about that. It's a good old farm name, and I've gradually found out that those who have that farm name have nothing in common except that through the history of the people's migrations in Norway you have approached places that have had the farm name, and taken it with great boldness. So with this boldness, which can then be included and expanded to more, I am one of them who – to keep me in touch with the Workers' Party representative – is being hit, but I see it as a considerable joy for others that they can get to name Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e239	Several have not asked for the floor for a reply or an intervention, and the debate on case No. 1 is over. [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e247	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e254	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Einar Holstad on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by André Kvakkestad, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Promise Party proposal No. 3, from André Kukkestad on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e324	For the first subparagraph and for the second subparagraph, the first sentence, an aberrant proposal, paragraph 1 shall be made. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 3 of the Act on personal names is amended as follows:The name of more than 500 persons in the Kingdom as surname may be taken as surname of others without the consent of those who already have it. § 3, second paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following:Name of 500 or fewer persons in the Kingdom as surname, may be taken as surname only if all those who already have it as surname agree.’ [[name law]] An alternative is to vote between the Committee's suspension and the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 and the first sentence of the second paragraph and the proposal of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, followed by the other paragraph and sentence of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e420	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the personal name law, the first paragraph of Section 6 shall be replaced by the following:A change in the spelling of an surname of letters commonly known abroad is not considered to take another name.’ [[name law]] Alternatively, between the Committee's suspension to the first paragraph of Section 6 and the proposal of the Progress Party, then to the second paragraph of Section 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e509	For § 11, there is an aberrant proposal, no. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the personal name law, Section 11 shall be replaced by the following:§ 11 Notification obligation and the name management bodyThe person who wishes to take, change or omit the name must notify it to the public register of the municipality in which the notification relates is registered. [[name law]] If the public register finds that the notification is to be accepted without any doubt, the public register shall take a decision to that effect. If the public register finds that the notification should not be accepted or if it is in doubt that it should be accepted, the matter should be transferred to the county State, which decides whether the notification should be accepted. The decision of the county council to accept or refuse to accept a notification may be appealed to the department. Complaints about decisions taken by the public register are dealt with by the county body in accordance with the rules governing the sub-committee's proceedings and the competence in appeal proceedings with the ministry as a review body.In some cases, the ministry may decide that notifications should be made to and processed by other administrative bodies.The ministry may provide detailed rules on the use of the notification form and the content of the notifications and on the procedure in other cases.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e613	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-03-21-lower.ana.ud2659e623	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
