ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e45	The representatives Morten Höglund and Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Applications for leave are submitted by the representative of Thore A. Nistad on 6 and 7 June to attend an OSCE conference in Bucuresti, Romania. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e74	Morten Ørsal Johansen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Marit Arnstad will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e79	On behalf of the representative of Åsa Elvik and myself, I would like to propose that the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team be represented in the Regulatory Council, the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission and other relevant Councils and Committees in the Fisheries Management.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e84	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e98	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e107	The Committee considers that self-employed women are entitled to maternity benefits. The Committee therefore considers it natural that legislation should be amended in order to apply the system of maternity benefits to all working women. For the Committee I think it is quite obvious that there is an equal need for protection against dangerous work for the foetus and mother among self-employed persons as among workers. The Committee therefore states that there is no factual reason to continue to separate the rights of pregnant women who are workers from pregnant women who are self-employed, if in both cases they have paid a national social security fee. On this basis, the Committee points out that self-employed people follow different rules regarding social security contributions and employers' contributions. It is therefore the Committee's view that the benefits should be equivalent to the level applicable to sickness benefits for self-employed persons, in accordance with the rules applicable to the payment of the levy. The party of the proposer, the Centre Party, has gone a little further than the rest of the Committee by asking the Government to amend this. That will probably be explained by the representative of the Central Party itself. Once the Committee has considered it sufficient to recommend to the Government to incorporate this into the 2003 budget, it is based on the positive and clear signals we have received on the occasion of the case. The Committee therefore refers to letters from the Minister for Children and Family Affairs dated 5 April that date. The letter states that the same department is working on a consultation note on changes to the maternity benefit scheme. The Committee has therefore found it satisfactory to take note that the Ministry will continue its work with a view to amending Sections 14 to 13 of the National Social Security Act so that self-employed persons can benefit from the maternity benefit scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e122	The current system of maternity benefits is not satisfactory. The legislation does not take into account self-employed women, which means that they cannot receive maternity benefits. By correcting this bias, the health of the mother and the foetus will have the same protection regardless of whether the mother is employed or self-employed. The rights of pregnant women have come as a result of the need to protect the health of the mother and the foetus, not as a result of employment or self-employed persons. Because self-employed persons are not entitled to maternity benefits, many women in this group continue to work for economic reasons, even if they should not be. This is very serious, because many of these women have work that is physically stressful. This group of women was alarmed by a former political adviser in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs to report ill. Firstly, pregnancy is not a disease and should not be treated as such. Secondly, it is contrary to the law to report disease when you are not ill. But this also helps to underline the need for non-discrimination so that women do not get into a dilemma where they have to choose between their own health and that of the foetus, or to act contrary to the law. Government Parties may not support the Central Party's remark to encourage the Government to remove the self-interest from the grant of maternity benefits until they are paid. Self-employed people pay lower contributions and contributions to social security and also receive different benefits. This also applies, for example: sickness fund. It would therefore be wrong – at least without a more thorough assessment – to make a single exception here that eliminates this difference between employees and self-employed people. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs has announced that they are working on a consultation note on changes to the maternity allowance scheme and that in this work they will also review the maternity benefit scheme with a view to legislative changes in the field of Document No. The eight-proposal is concerned. Although, on this basis, it might have been natural to see all the changes as a whole, a recommendation from the Storting to the Government to include this in the 2003 budget will already mean nothing more than that we underline the unacceptable situation and give support to the child and family minister who has already indicated that she wants to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e135	I think it is very positive that the entire committee has joined on such a broad basis the important reasons behind the issue, namely that maritime-going women should have the same rights to take their own child into account, in relation to the period just before maternity leave. I think that's good, because that means that we recognize that this is an important issue of equality. There are many women who want to set up their own businesses, there are many women who want to enter leadership positions, and they have to have the same opportunities to take care of their child as they do. It is also an important question for children because the rules on maternity pay are designed primarily for the purpose of the foetus and the protection of the foetus. I am therefore pleased with the suspension and the fact that one here should come back with proposals for schemes that ensure that self-employed persons are also covered by the maternity benefit scheme. I am also pleased with the signals that come from the Minister for Children and Family at this point. It is obvious that the Council of State is concerned about this issue. I think that's positive. The centre party has chosen to make a few comments related to the coverage of the arrangements in the case of sea-going operators. This is because there are two Achilles heels in the current arrangements for sea-going traders. One is that it is not possible to take supplementary insurance, i.e. for maternity benefits and care for sick children. that one will never be able to reach the highest possible coverage in relation to exactly the two schemes. The other applies to the quarantine period or the part-time period which, in relation to the maternity allowance, may mean that during the period in which there is a risk to the foetus, one cannot cover anything, because it will be in the last half of the pregnancy that this is a current issue. So the 16 days you have to cover this on your own is a problem with respect to the exact scheme of maternity benefits, which is to be a system related to the risk of negative influence or dangerous work. Therefore, the Centre Party has pointed out that the self-employed scheme, which is still being maintained there, is difficult. I hope, in line with what was said here by the representative from the Right, that the Government will make a more thorough assessment of this issue and look at the possibility of making the scheme effective from the first day of also in the case of a seafaring trader. I would like to say that the maternity benefit scheme and the care scheme for sick children are specific for the seafaring sole proprietor also in relation to the maternity benefit scheme. The maternity benefit scheme is a scheme aimed at women, while the care schemes for sick children and maternity benefits are schemes aimed at the child. This is precisely why it is important that one here does not place children of seafaring traders in a position different from that of children of workers. In addition to what is now said about maternity benefits, the next challenge for the Government will be to look at how sea-going traders can be covered by their expenses in being at home with sick children. Then they are not at home because they themselves are ill, but because the child is sick. And the child’s disease should not be linked to the type of work or activity that their parents carry out. I think we have a positive attitude from the Committee and a positive response to a case complex that is important, and that is both about equality and about how to get more women into the labour market and more women into the business community, a goal that is common to all parties in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e148	I'm not going to spend a lot of time in a case where the social committee agrees on all the essentials, and I can only refer to what both the case-rapporteur and the representative Heieren Hundhammer said in their speeches. I would like to stress that, for the SV, the main reason for changing the rules is that lack of rights and financial arrangements do not have to prevent protection from hazardous work for both the foetus and the mother. In addition, such an amendment to the legislation would also imply greater equality between women whether they are employees or self-employed and is thus a reasonable requirement of fairness that we cannot see any good, factual reason not to comply. The change that an overall committee is now entering, as SV sees it, has a different dimension. It means a little more real equality between sea-going business women and sea-going businessmen, as the representative Arnstad was also involved in his post. Such a scheme has existed until now, women who are self-employed, have suffered disadvantages and loss of income in connection with pregnancy, which male traders have not had for natural reasons. In this way, men have had a competitive advantage. It has also been unreasonable from a gender perspective. Women who wish to do their utmost to protect the foetus and to seam in relation to risk factors shall not suffer unfair economic and commercial reasons. That would be totally unreasonable. That's what I wanted to present as an important perspective for us in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e159	It is clear from the recommendation that an overall committee will ask the Government to propose a change to the Social Security Act § 14-13 so that the system of maternity benefits is applied to all pregnant women who are working in the labour market. I support this proposal and will work towards a change in the law so that self-employed persons can be covered by the maternity benefit scheme. It cannot be justified that a foetus should be protected less when the mother is self-employed than when she is an employee. Maternity benefits are provided to healthy pregnant women who have to stop working because the working environment may be harmful to the foetus. The condition of the law on the right to maternity benefit is that the woman is required to stop working under law or regulation because she is pregnant and it is not possible to relocate her to other suitable work in the company. The relevant provisions of the law or regulation apply mainly to workers. In addition, the right is linked to the fact that the employer has first tried to redeploy the woman or to organise the work. As the text of the law in force is formulated, self-employed persons are therefore excluded. In order for this group to be included, a different model has to be created. The most nearby solution is likely to be that pregnancy control has a central role to play in the concrete assessment of the woman’s working situation. The Ministry of Children and Family is currently reviewing the birth grant scheme with a view to simplification and improvement. I intend to send the proposals to the hearing during the year. As my letter to the Social Committee of 5 April 2002 shows, I have seen that the question of maternity benefits for self-employed persons should be addressed in this consultation note. I have noticed that the Committee recommends that the Government incorporate the amendment into the 2003 budget. I will try to get this to as far as possible, but the legislative amendment must first be sent to the hearing. It will be necessary to clarify, inter alia, during the consultation round. the relationship with the quarantine period and the voluntary sickness and maternity benefit insurance scheme, as also the representative Arnstad has been concerned about. This could lead to changes in several provisions of the People's Security Act. Furthermore, it is necessary to clarify the criteria to be used for assessing the existence of entitlement to maternity benefits and the role of a doctor or midwife in relation to the social security system. In any case, the intention of the amendment must be to ensure that the foetus is given the same protection regardless of whether the mother is an employee or self-employed person. We're going to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e176	It's a good day for women's policies, and it's a good day for equality policy. The Christian People's Party believes that pregnant women must have the same rights and opportunities for maternity benefits, regardless of whether they are employed or self-employed. It is paradoxical that if a pregnant woman is employed in a public institution and has to stop because heavy lifting can harm her unborn child, she will receive maternity benefits from the first day if it is not possible to organize the work or to relocate her to other work in the institution. Is the pregnant woman self-employed and has to stop working because heavy lifting e.g. on the farm or in the establishment may damage her unborn child, she will not receive maternity benefits until 16 days have elapsed. There are also other inequalities between employees and self-employed persons. I am thinking that even if a person does not have a waiting time as a self-employed person before receiving a birth grant, a only paid 65 pst. of the revenue, while an employee receives 100 pst. of the wages and salaries of the first 42 weeks. This with different treatments for children’s disease should also be considered. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Minister for Child and Family Affairs has addressed this problem and other aspects of the birth grant scheme with a view to simplification and improvement. It is necessary to clarify whether the insurance scheme should also apply to maternity benefits. I am pleased that the Council of State has so clearly confirmed that she will work for a change in the law so that pregnant women are equalised. This also gives the fetus equal protection. An overall committee wants to provide pregnant women with financial security from the day she has to leave work because the foetus may harm the working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e191	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2954]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e207	When the Stortinget discussed the quality reform on 12 June last year, it was endorsed by the Ministry's proposal for changes in grade structure. In the new degree structure, a lower level shall be three years and a higher level shall be two years. Organized research training shall continue to be three years. In addition, the government asked for questions related to possible conversions of the professional studies, the employment studies and the teacher training. That's what it's done. We will have increased quality and internationalisation in higher education once we have now dealt with degree structures in higher education. It is nice to be able to thank the Committee for constructive work on a so-called unanimous attitude, as we present here to the Stortinget. The Progress Party has its own proposal on legal study, which I believe they are commenting on. In St.meld. No 11 for 2001-2002 refers to those courses which will be exempted from the main model. In assessing the extent of education, the Government has taken the view that as many of the studies as possible should be included in this main model, but exemptions have been made for the clinical studies such as the medical, psychological and veterinary studies. An overall committee agrees with the Government in this regard. The Committee agrees that the level terms ‘bachelor’ and ‘master’ are defined centrally, but leaves to the institutions themselves to establish additions and clarifications, in order to provide an appropriate description of the level and content of each study. There are in particular three areas which have been the subject of the Committee. It concerns economic, auditor and theology training. The degree of «civil economist» is currently given for completed integrated economic studies of four years duration at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Higher Education BI and for studies of two years in excess of two years at the universities of Agder and Bodø. The Ministry proposes that this four-year study be exempted from the normal 3+2 model. The Committee considers economic training to be a general higher education and has therefore seen no reason to exclude this training from the usual degree structure. The Committee considered the 3+2 model to be well adapted to both an international labour market and an international education market. An extension of the study period will have financial consequences, points out in a letter to the Committee. However, the Committee has unanimously stated that this is a necessary extension for full international education. The model is also more flexible, provides a wider range of options and also allows for smooth transitions for lower-level candidates from universities and colleges. An extension of the study period will increase the ability to capture and integrate new subjects such as: ethics, environment and ICT. This will give us a qualitatively better civil economy education. The Committee has therefore been unanimous in its view that the civil economy training should follow the same degree structure as other training courses, but defers the introduction in 2004. Nor could the Committee see that there is a basis for keeping the higher degree training out of the degree structure. Although this will extend the study period by one semester, it is also possible to gain a professional breadth in key societal areas such as the environment and ethics. The Government states in the Communication that the civil industry design study will be extended by six months to a five-year master's degree, and the Committee agrees. The theology study can be seen as a unified professional training in which theory and practice belong naturally. There has been a clear trend in the theological faculties towards a much stronger integration between the theoretical and practical aspects of the training of the clergy. The Committee has facilitated the process of reaching a consensus. theol. is retained and shall be a six-year study in which one-year practical theological training is integrated. There is also the possibility of a master's degree in Christianity, but it is new that it can also become a master's degree in theology. This is at the request of the institutions themselves, which is considered to be historic and a victory for the training of priests in Norway. The Committee welcomed the Ministry's proposal that the degree of completion of architectural studies should be «master» in five years of education, but that the School of Architecture in Oslo should retain five and a half years of architectural education. All in all, I think this represents a conversion that will give us a better quality in higher education. The new degree structure is not just about a change of name, but should be a motivation for professional improvement. In addition, the conversion is in line with commitments and intentions in international agreements, see below. The Bologna process. One of the objectives of the conversion of the degree structure is also to facilitate national and international student mobility, in which case it is important that most studies are adapted to the international degree structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e233	The size now addresses a number of issues relating to quality reform in different contexts and in different areas. I feel the need initially to stress that what we are dealing with today, with the harmonisation of the degree structure and the assessment of various exceptions to the adopted main degree structure model, is also part of the quality reform. In other words, it is not primarily a question of improving efficiency, shortening study time for several studies, and thus also freeing financial resources in order to save money, but rather of being able to release resources to improve the overall quality of our studies and to improve the further development of the studies. Now that the degree structure is harmonised between Norwegian and international denominations and between education at Norwegian universities and universities and foreign education, this is also a clear result of our being in an international and globalised world in higher education and research. It is an explicit political desire to at least 50 pst. by Norwegian students, they shall have at least six months of foreign studies as part of their education. In the same way, we also want to work for foreign students to find it equally attractive to take part of their education in Norway at Norwegian universities. The decisions taken by Stortingen in this matter help to facilitate this work. We suggest that Norwegian degree structures should not only be recognisable and comparable to international terms, they should even be the same – and also equivalent – in relation to international comparisons and exchanges, whether in the case of students or finished candidates who are already in the labour market and who are applying for a job in an international labour market. At a time when the labour force is scarce – we have virtually no unemployment in the country – it is of course an objective that as many students as possible complete the studies at the normal time, and that they get out of work as quickly as possible. In this context, the degree structure and quality reform are an important contribution. In the right, of course, we agree with the main model, a three-year Bachelor's degree and a five-year Master's degree. But at the same time, it is important for us to stress the opening provided for flexibility and diversity in terms of the length of the study. When the main objective is to improve the quality of education, it is important for us to make it clear that this is in front of both system thinking and slavish adaptation to an adopted model. It is nice to note that the bulk of the population has joined such an assessment, that both quality considerations and the particular nature of the study can be divided differently from the main model of time and length for some studies, and that this can be accommodated by the decisions the Stortinget is invited to take today. It allows the places of study to develop and profile their peculiarity and to strengthen their competitive advantage, both to future students and to the market in general. I think this is one of many contributions to raising the quality of Norwegian higher education and looks forward to the practical implementation, which is primarily up to our good schools to implement and implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e250	Increased internationalisation due to a new degree structure — it is likely to be a bit hard to deal with. Standards that are internationally recognisable, on the other hand, are something that would have improved internationalisation quite instantly. But it does not wish – strangely enough – for the majority. You'd rather have a different system. There has been a broad consensus on the main principles of the Communication. The Committee has even been unanimous throughout the debate. We have no reason to express views beyond what is in the document, except for one thing. There's another study that should be questioned, and that's the law. Law has been subject to several changes — even in recent times. All these conversions have been essentially related to the length of the study and thus the quality content of the study has also been affected. Now it has to be further reduced, by one year, to be adapted to the normal model of 3+2 years. This puts a big question mark on the Progress Party, especially when we know that the law offices – which are competent, and which many want to use – have extremely long waiting lists, that the legal system as such cannot take matters away, and that the recruitment is poor. The answer could not be to spend less time training candidates and getting candidates with a generally lower level of knowledge — then to fill them up there. This would seriously harm the legal certainty of the individual. In view of all the ideas that have been aired regarding the extreme theoretical angles of the legal faculties, the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that if we reduce to the normal model, we should have a more practical approach to the subject. We therefore propose the introduction of a practical and legal seminar as an integral part of the master's study. We think this is going to have a device that is similar to the devices that apply to theological study. We believe that this will improve quality and increase legal certainty. I would like, on behalf of the Progress Party, to address the proposal on which we stand alone in the inner East. S. No 188.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e269	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e272	We have behind us a decade of extensive reforms of our education system – from primary to higher education. It started with the state colleges for approx. 10 years ago. Hopefully we learned a lot. In any case, we have learned something in this period of major reforms: there should be scope for different arrangements. There's room for models next to the main model. There's several reasons for that. Among other things, it is important to take care of the exposure existing in the different institutions. This reform – adopted and followed up today – is being met with a great deal of commitment in our educational institutions. New study programmes are well under way, where there is a greater interdisciplinary nature. We open up internationalisation and ask institutions to facilitate the development of new study programmes so that part of the study can be taken by a foreign institution, just to encourage more people to take up education abroad. The majority of the Committee – a unanimous committee – broadly follow up on the Government’s proposals. But in one area, we clearly do not agree with the Government. It's in the Civil Economy Study, where we say it's going into the 3+2 model. It was difficult to understand the government's argument about why they wanted to exempt this study from the model. That it has worked well for a long time is an argument that we hear. But now we're going to shape education for the future, and then the majority of the committee – every time a unanimous committee – believes that the civil economy study too should be based on the main model, that is. 3+2, precisely to adapt to what is happening internationally, and the possibility of exchanging students abroad. We also received strong requests from several of the institutions that train civil economists, that they wanted to get on the 3+2 model. So there were strong and clear signals from different environments that the training should also be based on the 3+2 model. It now has a unanimous committee in favour. The business college in Bergen has had a little longer time to adapt. It's a little strange that the institution that's going to train the leaders of the future has problems in converting as quickly as other institutions that have a different role. But we take note that they need a little longer time for conversion. The Committee has given them the opportunity to use one more year, but in that case the system shall also be in place for the Bergen School of Economics. So finally a little bit about theology and pastoral education. What the Committee says, in addition to being an integrated six-year course, is that those who train theologians and performers, i.e. The community faculty, the theological faculty and the University of Mission, must also be concerned with thinking about 3+2 structures, i.e. they are trying to organise their education so that if anyone finds out that they are not going to be a priest, they can quit after three years and take another education, for example targeting work within the Norwegian Church, that they also work in relation to the 3+2 model and are concerned with finding good structures within this model. This is a good setting. We take care of diversity, and we get those that it's natural to put in place within the 3+2 model.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e289	Most of the other parties have now spoken. And so that it should not be misinterpreted, and that silence on our part should mean that we support the setting with the pen, I just want to confirm here from the pulpit that we fully share all the conclusions of the unanimous vote. I find it unnecessary to repeat the reason as indicated by the almost unanimous setting. I'm sure one of the other parties that haven't had the word -- the Center Party -- shares that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e294	It was blessed to hear!
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e297	Also the Christian People's Party joins this unanimity here. But I have been made aware that there are three points in the summary in this setting that should be corrected, so that it comes in line with what is stated in the message. On the first page, where the degree of veterinary medicine is mentioned, it shall be referred to as ‘cand.med.’ and not as ‘cand.med.’. It's in the second column, second paragraph. On page 2, first column, second section, reference is made to the civil engineering study, and in the last sentence it shall follow a ‘3+2 model’ and not ‘2+2 model’. In addition, in the case of Norway’s agricultural high school, one word has become wrong. It shall read: ‘Except, the direction is landscape architecture that still can’ — not ‘shall’ — ‘be an integrated 5-year study’. Then it becomes as stated in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e310	The corrections made by the representative of Scarbøvik will be reflected in the record.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e313	I am pleased that a joint committee has presented an attitude that I think can lead to quality improvement in a number of our studies. It's very positive. Personally, I am very happy that civil economist training also came into the new study pattern. The reason why it's pretty short is that civil economists have gradually taken on a lot of leadership positions in our society. Many of them find themselves in situations where large amounts of money go through the businesses they have to deal with, and it is easy to be tempted. It's not hard to be ethical if you're never tempted. I think it's very important that precisely that group is given the opportunity to deepen something more in the general sense of society and in ethical issues. This training on ethical issues, I think, is very important. I hope, then, that the extra time now spent by the civil economist study will be used extensively in just the two areas – social understanding and ethical issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e321	The President would point out that he fully agrees with the representative of Onarheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e324	I just have to confirm what Vidar Bjørnstad said, that the Center Party fully supports this setting. We agreed that not so many would take the word, but when everyone takes the word, and someone takes the word several times, I think it is important to say something about this. I want to stress that I am very pleased that a joint committee does not want the education to be as streamlined as the government originally provided. It is important that some studies and some institutions can run any other race than the 3+2 model. We will also see this in connection with other matters, such as: higher education of art, to be dealt with later in this room. I would like to stress that I am very pleased that, in the field of theology study, the cand.theol. degree is maintained, that what one has actually worked with since the mid-1970s – integrating parts of the practical-theological seminary into the theoretical study – can continue, and that the institutions are given the freedom to integrate this in a way that serves the students, so that they can become skilled priests in the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e333	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President would also point out that it is good to spend the day today on this type of debate. [[Fotation, see page 2954]] During the remaining time before the Storing is going to split up, there's hardly time for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e351	The Party for Progress has submitted a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to increase the financial support for ANSA’s advisory services in order to provide the organisation with the real opportunity, in a professional way, to maintain the rapidly increasing volume of work compared to decisions taken and the change in student choices that have taken place from 1964 to 2002.’» The proposal already explains why we want to increase the financial support for ANSA, and it is supported and argued a little more for it in the vote, among other things. It appears that ANSA has the same advisory staff today as it had in 1964. It was about that time. 3 000 students abroad, and today it is approx. Fifteen thousand. The Party and the undersigned also consider that the authorities must now intervene and support the operation of a new position in ANSA and that it should do so as soon as possible. The majority, on its part – the other parties – believe that the need for and public support for ANSA must be assessed in the context of the annual government budgets and the revised budgets, and in this context refer to the parties’ positions. If you do just that, and go back and check what the various parties thought during the examination of this year's government budget, you can see that there is a majority on the Stortinget who believe that ANSA should be given increased funds and a further position. Right, Christian People's Party and Left actually proposed a new advisory position in ANSA in connection with the teaching budget, but they did not get the Progress Party with them, and it was voted down. Now the Progress Party wants to push for this new position through this proposal, but they do not get the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left, so it gets down. So it's a majority on the Stortinget that has a strong willingness to give ANSA a new position. They just don't get it. So the question is, why? I have my own theory on that, and it is not very pleasant for the Norwegian political environment, but I hope the President will forgive. My theory is as follows: During the discussion of this year's state budget, the Progress Party voted in a spectacular way together with the Workers' Party and SV in connection with the teaching budget. I think the Progress Party did it because you were mad at the government parties that wouldn't let Carl I. Hagen become the Grand President. Then it was found that the education budget was a suitable place to mark this, because then you could remove some performances, which you thought would make the Prime Minister reasonably irritated. Then why don't the government parties on their side want to fix this now that they have the opportunity? I think it is related to the fact that the government parties are now mad at the Progress Party which did not agree with the government parties in the State budget. Then they think that now they get the Advance Party to fry a little bit in its own fat. They are allowed to be unpopular in ANSA and in the foreign student community for at least another six months, until next year's government budget. – We will not help the Progress Party to correct their own loss. That's how I think unfortunately it is. And I'm aware that it's not very nice to say that. But when Norway is governed by cooperation between Tuppen and Lillemor, it has to go a little wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e375	The President was in his own mind to look through the fanatical theories of Simonsen's representative, but the President seems to have gone very far when he characterises the Norwegian Storing and the Norwegian Government as 'Tuppen and Lillemor'. I would strongly recommend him to stop with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e378	I'm not going to comment on Simonsen's theories. We disagree that a person should deal with individual appropriations in cases of this size and nature other than the usual budgetary rounds. But I want from the pulpit to express our view of the positive work that ANSA is doing in relation to advice to students abroad, and also in relation to information to potential foreign students here in Norway. In this context, I think it is an important perspective to record an ever-increasing number of professional actors who have financial interests in relation to recruiting students for foreign studies, and I think that in cooperation with the public, ANSA is an important pillar to build on. I would also like to take the opportunity to mention a matter I have touched on earlier, which concerns students abroad. We want a development in which the number of students abroad is going to increase, not only in the case of those who take full-time education there, but also in the case of those who are going to take part in an education where the majority are going to take place in Norway. In particular, on the basis of information from ANSA, we have recorded an ever-increasing problem that students abroad do not get enough — or not at all — legal help when matters appear, and it has something to do with the legal certainty of an increasingly large group of Nordics abroad. I just want to repeat this and encourage the Council of State and the Department to bring this perhaps small, but at least important perspectives up to foreign students, and ensure that this is captured when the number out now will increase to an even greater extent than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e391	Without commenting on something that has been said before, I think I have a word to say: I want, I want to, but I don't get it! The number of Norwegian students abroad has gradually increased in recent years. In June 2002, there were about 15 000 degree students and nearly 5 000 partial students outside the borders of Norway. The number of students abroad will increase further as a result of the Stortingen in the treatment of St.melding. No 27 for 2000–2001 endorsed the Government’s proposal that all students in Norway should be offered an offer to take part in their education abroad. We have also heard earlier today that the degree structure itself will increase internationalization. Education funding in Norway contributes positively to the choice of study abroad by many. The large number of Norwegian students at foreign universities needs good assistance, advice and guidance. Since 1964, therefore, ANSA has held one position as a student adviser, funded by the Ministry of Education's budget. When the position was created in 1964, there were 3,173 students from Norway who studied at foreign higher education institutions. With more than 20,000 students abroad, we now see that the number of foreign students has been fivefold since 1964. The work done by ANSA in the form of assistance, advice and through its networks is very important to provide security for Norwegian foreign students. Norwegian higher education institutions will as a result of Innst. S. No 337 for 2000-2001 are required to ensure increased internationalisation by students taking part in their education. This will result in an increasing number of foreign students having problems with both Norwegian and foreign agencies and bodies. It will therefore be an effective exploitation of existing competences to transfer this whole complex of subjects to ANSA, as the most competent independent institution in this field. It is therefore necessary to include such a transfer of additional work in a larger assessment. From 2001, ANSA saw the need to hire an additional student counsellor, while the application for additional funds was for treatment. This resulted in an ANSA deficit of more than 0.5 million. 2001 kr. A similar result for 2002 cannot be achieved by organisations of this type. The Progress Party would therefore like to see ANSA fully funded two posts in the Advisory Service of the Ministry of Education budget. In view of the position of most other big parties, the Progress Party finds it very striking that we do not get a majority in favour of this proposal. On 29 April 2002, during the examination of an interview by the representative of Skei Grande to stimulate studies at foreign institutions, the representative of Bjørnstad from the Workers' Party pointed out that ANSA has ‘registered approximately. 80 enquiries a year from Norwegian students abroad with a request for legal assistance’, and it is therefore important that Norwegian students abroad are provided with legal assistance and guidance that they need’. The representative, Bjørnstad, stated that he hoped ‘because this is a matter that the Government can address, so that the legal certainty of foreign students can also be well safeguarded’. That's what the representative Bjørnstad said at the time. On this basis, the Progress Party finds it surprising that the Workers' Party now – a little over a month after this statement – does not follow up on strengthening the only existing counselling service for foreign students. The most surprising thing, however, is that the government parties do not support this proposal. At the latest in the Budgetary Section. S. No 12 for 2001–02, the government parties supported this proposal and then ‘very positive about the work done with counselling for foreign students’ and then proposed to grant 0.5 million. kr to an additional student advisor for ANSA. The Progress Party regrets that this point was not possible in our budgetary settlement on the educational side with the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The Progress Party now gave the Government a handshake to implement this proposal in revision, and wonders at the continuity of the priorities of the government parties. Int. S. No 197 for 2001-2002 shows that the majority, consisting of all parties with the exception of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, have proposed a budget of 1.5 million in the revised national budget in 2002. kr to upgrade the IT systems to ANSA. This proposal is entirely positive. However, the Progress Party notes that this is only a technical upgrading of the IT structure and network services of the study information department of the ANSA. This Decision does not improve the situation of the many Norwegian students abroad who experience difficulties in their everyday study. Int. S. No The majority, consisting of all parties with the exception of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen, also argues that ‘the need and public support for ANSA must be assessed in the context of the annual government budgets/audited budgets’. For the government parties, this statement is based on their own unfairness, as the Progress Party does not benefit from increased support for the advice service in ANSA, which is largely identical to the proposal that the government parties themselves entered in the Budget. No 12 for 2001-2002. ANSA is now most likely to have to resign from one of the two positions they hold in the counselling service, which means that the help for counselling, assistance and legal security guidance given to Norwegian students abroad today will be severely weakened. The Progress Party hopes that the Government will see the seriousness of this situation and implement measures in next year's government budget. In addition, I will address the proposal on which we stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e414	The representative has taken up the proposal to which she referred. The President will propose that if, on presumptuous grounds, there should be more – in addition to the speakers who have already spoken – who are asking for the floor, they will only have 3 minutes of speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e419	A focus on internationalisation in higher education is important. Document No The 8-proposal from the Progress Party addresses the situation of ANSA is an important political issue. The work done by ANSA in the field of internationalisation and for Norwegian students living abroad is important. The size has adopted a goal that means that we need to increase the number of students taking all or part of the education abroad. The world is getting smaller and smaller. It is important that students go out, experience and participate in culture, language and traditions, and take this back with them. There's a lot of ways to do this. It is important to strengthen universities and universities' competences in the field of education abroad, and also to strengthen the dissemination and information service to students. It's important to focus both on scholarships and legal aid, which has been mentioned in the past, and ANSA is an important part of this. SV joins the joint comment that refers to this being addressed in the annual government budgets and in the revised national budgets. This is about audacity, and we are on the political priorities we are making. When the Progress Party takes this into account in a Document No. Eight proposals, but they did not propose strengthening them in the budget, nor did they come into agreement with the Government with regard to the revised budget, and it is not about honesty. Politics is about making proposals, but also about following them up in real life. The Progress Party addresses an important issue, but what it is about is that, in order to achieve something, it is implemented in the context of the annual government budgets and through the economic priorities of the individual parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e435	The Christian People's Party fully shares the proclamation of ANSA's work as very useful and necessary, not least when we aim to increase internationalisation for the students. But I have to ask what is the difference between New Year and now, when the Progress Party now comes up with the same proposal that they had the opportunity to vote for earlier. Well, the difference is that the government in the revised budget has taken up the situation of ANSA, and therefore proposes a budget of 1.5 million. kr to upgrade the IT systems. So you don't want to fight back on a matter that was voted down in the past. In addition, the Christian People's Party wants to continue to see this in an economic context, so that ANSA gets a handshake, even from the government parties. It is quite possible to follow up later. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to see this in a context, as we say in the setting, where we refer to the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e444	There is no one in the Committee who does not recognise the important work ANSA does. Therefore, the Government also proposed to grant 1.5 million. kr for upgrading IT equipment in the revised budget. When the majority don't say yes to this allocation, it's not because we don't value the job ANSA does, but simply because it's a budgetary question. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, as the Advocate-General said, have made proposals for an additional advisory role. Then we were voted down by the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party. I haven't been a big-time representative for so long, but I've been a big-time representative long enough to understand one thing, namely that if you're going to have a chance to get something through, you're going to have to deal with it in budgetary procedures. The right, Christian People's Party and the left proposed such additional appropriations in the budgetary procedure, but was voted down. In the end, I would like to comment briefly on a couple of aspects. In the special comment of the Progress Party in the setting, it is stated: ‘There is no doubt that the advisory service was blown up last autumn when ANSA saw the need to hire a new adviser. This decision has caused financial problems for the organisation.» Yes, that is precisely why we wanted to grant extra money in the budget last year to such an advisory position. When the representative Evje from the pulpit says that she ‘complains that this point was not possible in our budgetary settlement’, I can say that the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left also regret that it was not possible – but it was not on us. In parallel with the examination of this Document, No. The 8th proposal has been debated on the revised budget. Then I find it strange that the money for an additional advisory position was not at all a priority post from the Progress Party in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e464	First, a small correction to the post of the representative Simonsen. He talked about a budgetary settlement and left out the Senter party, but fortunately there are other representatives who have mentioned it. So the centre party was part of that budgetary agreement. It is true that a proposal for a new position for ANSA was not included in that budget. That's why, I think, the government's adding 1.5 million. kr for upgrading the IT equipment. In fact, the work of ANSA is very important. Especially in relation to aggressive agents from many universities around the world who operate their marketing, I think ANSA is an important tool for providing good information about places of study, etc. abroad. So I'd like to end by saying that the central party in its proposal for the revised budget actually put back this position, with half a million dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e474	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e477	I feel that it is necessary to answer some claims that seem to hang in the air here. The Christian People's Party was very pleased that they had suggested and invested money into new IT systems. ANSA is going to be very happy about this, and I'm also sure that ANSA is. This was absolutely necessary, because the old IT systems had actually collapsed. If you had not received this money, ANSA would have been out of service. Then a majority in this room had to take responsibility for the fact that this office was out of service. What we're doing now is an advisory position. If people go a little bit by themselves, they'll remember that before Christmas last, we had a lot of rounds of government parties where this was a theme. Those who have been on the Stortinget longer than last fall until now know that the Progress Party over and over again, both the fraction, the party president and several, have addressed ANSA's problems and forced them through solutions, both when Lilletun was the government council and under other government councils. You know this if you go a little bit by yourself. When it is now claimed that we have not said anything about this in the revised budget, there may be a reason why we presented this as a document no. 8 proposals: The revised budget is a revision and should not be included in a wide range of new measures because of a lack of conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e489	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2954]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e505	: It is commendable that the proposers highlight the economic situation of apprentices in higher education. However, in this context, the majority of the Committee points out that apprentices are also entitled to scholarships and loans today, in line with all other secondary school students. In other words, apprentices under the age of 19 who live at home can be supported by a need-tested approach to the caregiver’s and own economy, and apprentices under the age of 19 who live on shelter can receive an education grant of DKK 3,385 per year. month independent of the economy of the parent(s). But since apprentices, unlike students, have an apprentice's salary, 60 pst is going. of each krona they serve, for deductions from education grants and loans. Wages and salaries are regarded as unemployment-free income and are therefore deducted from the first crown. But if the apprentices like students have an extra job, they can earn up to the amount of free money that's now increased to 5200 kroner without credits or loans. In addition, apprentices may receive support for 11 months per year. years of education, while other secondary school students normally receive support for 10 months. The same majority believe that the examination of this proposal should wait for the announced review of the support scheme from the Loan Fund to young people in secondary education, so that it can be seen in full. In this respect, the majority specifically calls on the Ministry to assess the need for changes in support schemes for apprentices. From the Workers' Party's side, I would like to add that we clearly see the need to improve the grant scheme in higher education, and will come back to this when we deal with the revision of the Loan Fund schemes. With these words, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e522	I'll briefly take up two things that are important in this context. One is the word «abbreviation» and the other is the word «need test». Apprentices who are within their – to say – attainment period of the education, have a normal course of two years in school and two years in the company. When they're in business, they make money for the company and themselves. During this period, there is a wide range of problems, because apprenticeships in the company do not have for all types of education anywhere in this country where there are people. That means that if you live in a place where you don't get an apprenticeship in the company, or can sign an apprenticeship with a company, near where you live, you have to live for yourself, with your own household, your own rent, your own food budget, etc. We know that books and other things related to higher education have to be paid by the individual student. We also know that we want grant schemes to be put in place for this. We know that the Workers' Party has turned around together approx. 200 million. NOK to fix this problem, but it's really just going to be a little bit of money. What's heavy for the apprentices who don't live at home is the rent. In Oslo, we need over 2,000 skilled workers. We know that, because it's been presented to us by the media a lot and often. For one with an apprenticeship contract with a company in Oslo – which may come from Hedmark, which may come from More and Romesdal – it goes without saying that it is not possible to rent a dwelling here in the city and pay it with the curtailed additional allocation you get from the Loan Fund in the form of grants and loans. Then these apprentices face two choices: extra work, considerable overtime in the job they have, or going to the social office. A lot of people do the last thing and are social clients throughout that part of their education. These are the actual ratios. What's important here, I guess, isn't how we turn on words in our own law paragraphs, but looking around us a little bit, admitting that what we thought when we made the paragraphs, was good at that time, but that time has gone away from us. An apprentice with a rent in Oslo between $6,000 and $7,000 a month can't possibly make this happen. We need to remove the abbreviation rules, and we need to remove the need test. And that's what our proposal is very simple about, but as the majority don't think it's so important right now, because we're going to take it in another block. It doesn't help those apprentices who don't have food, it doesn't help those apprentices who don't meet their basic needs in a welfare society, and I'm not talking about luxury, I'm talking about pure basic needs. We're sorry that you want to spend more time on this. It's knowledge that should be well known to most of us who have children at that age, or who have had it quite recently. With this, I would like to address the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative of Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e535	The representative Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e550	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e571	During the debate, Mr Evje, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to organise the legal study so that a practical and legal seminar is organised as an integral part of the master’s study with an extension of study time to 6 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e609	During the debate, Mr Evje, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to increase the financial support for ANSA’s advisory services in order to provide the organisation with the real opportunity, in a professional way, to maintain the rapidly increasing volume of work compared to decisions taken and the change in student choices that have taken place from 1964 to 2002.’» An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e631	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e638	Then the result is 92 votes for the vote and 17 votes for the proposal. Nevertheless, the result is that the setting has been adopted at a good margin.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e641	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e648	Then we're back to the original numbers. In the case of alternative voting between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Advance Party, the vote was supported by 93 to 16 votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e655	During the debate Ursula Evje presented the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary legislative changes to allow apprentices to apply for scholarships and loans without rules on curtailment and need testing.’ An alternative is to vote between the position and the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-06-06.ana.ud1555e684	There is no record.
