ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e45	The representative Arne Sortevik, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by Mr Karin S. Woldseth on 3 December and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Jan Koløy, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e68	Jan Koløy is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e82	Illegal spirits are traded in large quantities in Norway. In the fall we have also been shown how bad it can be when you drink smuggler liquor. More than 10 people have died after drinking spirits containing methanol. In addition, those who have fallen ill but who have escaped from it with their lives – a tragedy for those who have been affected and for their families. Against this background, the representatives of Alvheim and Nesvik have proposed that private and official laboratories be allowed to check whether alcoholic beverages contain methanol, a proposal that all parties in the social committee have rejected, with the exception of the Progress Party. Opening up hospitals’ laboratories to test whether spirits contain methanol would be an unacceptable priority for health care resources. Hospital laboratories are already very busy analysing samples from patients. Further burdening these laboratories with the testing of illegal spirits and perhaps delaying the analysis of samples from sick people would be a completely monstrous priority. In addition, it is not appropriate to open such tests, both in private and official laboratories, in view of the illegal nature of the product. Public testing of illicit liquor would be a handshake to smugglers and others who were able to tamper with the illicit circulation of alcohol and would, in effect, allow the smuggler to have access to public quality stamping of smuggling liquor. The result may be greater turnover of illicit spirits when people are tested the product before it is consumed. Nor has it been given that such an offer will only be used by the purchasers. Those who sell illegal spirits may also sample a batch and sell it to people with stamps: ‘First-class spirits. Say hello to Ullevål Hospital." We as politicians cannot be aware of that. The turnover of illicit spirits is also not about crime in line with the person who has a home-burning device in the basement that he takes up until Christmas and Easter to make a bottle or two for himself and the neighbor. We're talking about organized crime with branches both domestic and foreign, where alcohol sales to the Nordics both enrich the backers and smugglers and finance other types of criminal activity. Back to the customer: From the fact that methanol-containing spirits were sold, the matter has received a lot of attention. And no one has been able to avoid being informed about the risk of drinking illegal liquor. In addition, there has been thorough information on the symptoms of intoxicating the toxic alcohol, so that hospital contact can be made quickly if intoxication is suspected. No one can therefore say that they have not received sufficient information about the risks you are facing if you are thinking of buying smuggler liquor. People who are already in possession of illegal liquor are asked to get rid of this soon, either by emptying it out or by putting it on the stairs to the nearest police station. However, if someone goes to the illegal and foolish step of drinking such alcohol, one must also be prepared to bear the risk involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e99	The autumn we've been behind us was marked by a very big smuggler scandal, where a number of people have bought methanol-containing smuggler spirits on the illegal market. More than 10 people have died as a direct result, and a large number of people have been hospitalized with some serious injuries. The party of progress could not just sit and watch a number of people suffer serious health damage or even death as a result of their own stupidity in drinking smuggler liquor that could contain methanol. It is true that Norway does not have a death penalty, nor because of one’s stupidity or that it has committed a crime by buying this illegal product. From a purely judicial point of view, this proposal we are now considering would have to be characterised as being in border countries for what would be recommended. In the very difficult situation you are in, and with several thousand litres of methanol-containing alcohol that no one knows where, the proposers have chosen to put life and health ahead of a principle of how suspicious such a proposal is for the sake of justice policy. I actually believe that in this situation it should be allowed for a period of time that it was possible to test if one had this deadly drink in his own home. Some have claimed that it has been so long, and with so much media coverage, that the person who drinks this liquor must know that it is very dangerous and therefore must not be drunk. I agree, of course, that it should not be allowed to sell or buy smuggler liquor. But it is a long way from this type of crime and until it is associated with the danger of life. Even politicians have to take inwards that there is a large and unbridled market for the widespread purchase and sale of smugglers. This is because Norway is one of the countries in the world with the highest taxes on alcohol, and in this respect I can more than assume where the blame lies for the huge trade in illegal goods. The Party wishes to introduce a temporary system allowing public and private laboratories to check whether alcoholic beverages contain methanol. When I heard the previous post from the representative Heieren Hundhammer, I was frightened. The representative Heieren Hundhammer concluded his post by saying that now people should be aware of what has happened, really know the consequences of drinking this product. Well, I can't see it from the same point of view as the representative Heieren Hundhammer, because I think we can't impose the death penalty in this country for stupidity. The representative Heieren Hundhammer denies any opportunity to help some people in this matter. We agree that it is wrong. We agree that this is a product that is not allowed and that should not be allowed, but it cannot be so far that any responsibility is waived from this room because as lawmakers we prevent these tests from taking place. The proposers have proposed a temporary arrangement, as we write in our remarks. That's what the matter is. On this basis, I refer to the proposal contained in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e118	Harald T. Nesvik has put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e121	It is with respect to report a rather special case that is leading today, because the law and order-party over something, the Progress Party, will ask the Stortinget that a long way to legalize crime. With this presented here – both when it comes to people's grip and the signal from a possible positive decision in the Stortinget – one signals to criminal traffickers that one can test their goods so that one can drink safely, even though both buyers and sellers have done a criminal act. It is quite perceptive that the party that has held on to law and order is appealing for this. Everyone thought it was sad and tragic about the deaths that have happened. But it is quite striking that the Progress Party, which is raising this proposal, did not seem to have any concern for all the deaths that we know from research would have occurred in the wake of their alcohol policy release. That would be hundreds. I don't hear any concern when it comes to it. On the contrary, the representative, Nesvik, says that Norwegian alcohol policy leads to this. It is a signal that one would want criminal waitresses that run smuggling to determine the framework of Norwegian alcohol policy. It is the Christian People's Party in deep disunity. I would like to see the case spokesperson say from the point of view of orientation and introduction and say that it is a pleasure that almost a group of people reject this horrific proposal. The next must be that one should go to the meat inspection slaughterhouse when smuggling meat is introduced, which can also represent a death hazard. I hope for the longest time that the proposers cannot have seen the consequences of their submission.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e130	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e133	I do not think that the representative of the Aarøy and the undersigned in this type of debate is a surprise to many in this Chamber. Of course we can stick our head in the sand, and then we look up every four years to see what's happening around us in this kind of problem, or you can see the reality of the day in our eyes. The archipelago has clearly chosen to stick its head far and deep into the sand. It is not Norwegian alcohol policy that is the reason we are talking about charging policy. I really hope that Norwegian alcohol policy is more than the sky-high level of taxes that we have in this country. At least the Progress Party chooses to believe, but it is clear that the representative of the Aarøh does not. There have been several possibilities for so-called weapon names path. Then we also talk about criminal acts. It's criminal to buy and sell these weapons. Then my question to the representative of Aarøen is: Does the representative of Aarøen believe that this is wrong because you do not receive punishment even if you have committed a criminal act? That's the exact same thing. For the Progress Party is proposing a temporary arrangement – there is nothing that should be permanent – to bring some of these thousands of gallons of this deadly fluid around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e142	When you're a little pressed, it's always convenient to talk about something else and try to distract the attention to the matter by pulling in completely different things. It will not be closed by the representative Nesvik. Today, we are talking about a huge social problem that has a lot of branches, and so he should not be shut down in a debate about completely irrelevant things! I think most people in Norway are aware that the person who put his head in the sand of alcohol policy is the Advance Party, represented by Nesvik here today. He ignores the criminal problem. He solves it by stabbing his head in the sand and calling for public control of illegal goods, so that it can be used freely. He's worried about what he's going to do with this liquor. I can help Nesvik with that right away! Here we have a good sewage system where it's possible to turn it off. I have not heard that this leads to significant pollution of nature – so the solution is very simple. At least the solution is not that society should set up and certify a criminal activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e151	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e154	Someone might say that this is a matter it has no intention of taking the word in, but I think the matter has such a special character and a special purpose that there is reason to comment on it anyway. It is that illegal alcohol is traded in Norway and that it is done to an extent not known, but it appears to be on a large scale. During the last year, this illegal alcohol has led to many deaths, and this makes the relationship with this illegal product even more serious than under Norwegian legislation itself. The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, as the proposer, said that the problem was our fault, among other things. due to high taxes on alcohol. I think it's going to be acting almost like Erasmus Montanus when he described Mother Nile. It is the responsibility of public authorities and therefore our responsibility to expose this illegal product and remove it from society. I think that's our problem. If we don't see it, with this proposal, we will open up some kind of consensus that will also affect other areas. For example, drugs, such as alcohol, are also available. the impurity such, unfortunately also takes life. And then, based on that, you should also require some kind of official control of these and therefore some kind of authorisation system, so that you can use it. I do not believe that this proposal can be supported in any way. The representative, Nesvik, is right now saying that this is supposed to be a temporary arrangement. When I read the proposal the first time, I did not get the full impression of it! But at least it's in the notes now. I don't think it's appropriate to use official laboratories, but also private laboratories, for this business. It would be to use them to authorise an illegal product and it would be a form of legalizing an illegal product. And such a quality stamping of illegal spirits will actually help to maintain and further develop this kind of crime and activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e169	The very best that can be said about Document No. The 8th proposal from the Progress Party is that it is well-being. But also at that point, I am a little in doubt when I listen to the attempts at justification given by the representative Nesvik. I hope for the longest time that the introduction of the concept of ‘death penalty’ in this context was an accident at work. And if it wasn't an accident at work, it's -- I almost said -- active and deliberate thoughtlessness. Introducing such a concept in the context of human beings being exposed to acute health hazards, possibly life-threatening, through their behaviour, is to disrupt both any serious debate on the death penalty, which is a legal concept related to the law enforcement of society, and a serious debate on health and social policy. It is extra real that such reasoning is carried out by a party that otherwise pre-defends the individual's unlimited right to endanger both his or her own health and that of others, not quite so acutely, but there is little to say that seigpining is preferable in all contexts. It is simply not in conjunction when a party which otherwise predestines the complete freedom of adults to choose their own behaviour regardless of its consequences will use public research institutes, including private ones, to actively participate in criminal offences. The representative Nesvik drew a parallel to a weapon name path, but that parallel obviously fails. We have not yet established a weapon-name path in this country that invites people to come to official control of their weapons, and then take it home and, if necessary, trade it illegally afterwards. It would be an incomprehensible creative form of weapon name path. I think it would be an advantage for all parties and also for the Norwegian people about the Progress Party for once admitted that here one has gone out on a galley that is going absolutely wrong. Let me add that the methanol cases at the same time illustrate a fundamental problem that has to do with both drug policy and other aspects, namely that human behaviour in some contexts is fundamentally irrational. As far as I have been able to follow, the outlying segment has not been affected by the tragic accidents associated with the consumption of contaminated spirits. It makes it even more thoughtful. After all the public attention that has been around this, it would be thought that the vast majority of individuals in pure and pure self-interest would steer miles away from the illicit consumption of alcohol. But then one. It also shows that it is a hypothesis that has very little in common, to believe that regulating the rates of taxes on legally traded spirits would have an impact on human behaviour in this context. If people are willing to put themselves at risk for life to save a few dollars, it's very little that speaks for the fact that you'll at all be killed by rational measures. I will end by challenging the representative Nesvik to respond to whether he really did, and after this setting, a nearly unanimous social committee has issued, will really insist that the Document No. The 8-proposal he has put before the Grand Duchy is a thoughtful and sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e187	I will admit that I had not planned to take the floor in this matter. I've been running politics for 25 years, and I have to admit that this is the most crazy proposal I've ever seen before any political assembly. However, I must try to ask some serious questions to the proposer. The problem here is that this alcohol is not pure alcohol, but methanol. Within the drug field, we have this problem with unclean goods in many areas. For example, we are constantly hearing that impure heroin is coming in that causes those on heroin to die. We are constantly involved in the entry of unclean ecstasy tablets, etc. leading to the death of, or serious illness of, young people. The only logical link with the Alvheim and Nesvik proposals is that it is now followed up by saying that if heroin users, for example, use heroin. Whenever it is found that heroin is in circulation, the heroin user can take his heroin to an official laboratory and have it tested that the quality is good enough before the shot is taken. My questions to Nesvik will be: Do Nesvik agree that there is, of course, a logical link between the proposal he has promoted and such a further development of the way of thinking? And when can we expect a follow-up proposal from Nesvik to test heroin users for its purity?
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e194	The proposal by the representatives Nesvik and Alvheim thinks that many can think about before you think about it. The obvious thing here, if you were to draw parallels in terms of control, like Nesvik is talking about here, would have to be an amnesty linked to the delivery of the smuggler, the delivery of homeburners, and the lack of criminal law responses to it. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Nesvik, what might be the reason why the Progress Party does not actually propose it. When you draw a parallel to this with a weapon name path, the parallel – if you could draw such a parallel – would be that you had the weapons checked as to whether they were fit as weapons, whereupon you take them home without any criminal-law responses being linked to the fact that the weapons were actually illegally purchased. Several have been involved in controlling any drug, which is a quite obvious parallel. The number has varied, but we have mostly had more than 200 overdose deaths in Norway just because of drugs that vary in purity, and where we see that it works in relation to overdose deaths. In the extension of what the Progress Party here suggests, it would be quite logical to open up the testing of those substances in order to say something about purity, so as to prevent overdose deaths. But that's just the way to think about it. That's the way to think about it. That's the way to think about it. That's the way to think about it. That's the way to think about it. It's only if you can see that a farmer is moving from E2 to E4 without seeing what the consequences are, that you can figure out how to make such a suggestion. I think there are a lot of people who are actually going to be able to share thoughts that aren't ready until you meet the counter-conceptions. But the fact that, as a parliamentarian, you have to sit down, write it on a sheet and deliver it after you may have both days and weeks to think it through, is alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e203	I just want to make a few small comments. The amnesty requested by Ballo in the case of the surrender of alcohol has actually been tried. It was introduced quite quickly, among others. in Eastfold, where they were invited to put the booze outside on the stairs of the police. Unfortunately, it didn't work. In the case of Inge Wage Teaching, we get to take note of it. Is this a well-worked proposal? To say what I also said in my post: If you see it from a legal point of view, it is extremely worrying. I fully agree and have no problem with that. But we write in our remarks that we want a ‘temporary arrangement whereby public and private laboratories are allowed to check whether alcoholic beverages contain methanol’. It's not about the hospital's task to do this, but it's about changing a ban. So you can be prosecuted by criminal law if you try to do tests. That is what is happening today. Among other things, we had: a situation – it was well in Bergen – where someone was supposed to have tested this and was actually reported for it. That's what the matter is. In the case of contaminated heroin in the market, which also kills, the proposers have not assessed that part at all. What is the problem, among other things: In the case of heroin, the purity of the drug is, in fact, the purity of the drug. That's very often what makes you get the problem of overdose, because you're not used to it. But that issue has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 712]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e231	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e238	The proposers address a very important and central theme in this Document No. The 8th proposal, which is how we, as a society, can manage to prevent people who have previously been punished for moral crimes from getting jobs that put them in contact with children, and that can give them new opportunities for abuse. State Council Dørum has already notified in its reply to the Committee that it is in the process of amending legislation in some areas, in line with the proposal. Doorrooms shall be provided with a health care centre. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, has chosen to do its work in depth and in detail in the proposal. We have reviewed the individual proposal and made a decision. The question of police clearance for adults working with children is central to the proposal. The proposers propose to extend the scope of this action, with the agreement of the majority of the Committee in the case of decommissioners and support contacts. However, I would like to stress that a clean police record in itself is not a guarantee that a person is fit to work with children. The police record will only provide information as to whether he has previously been punished. But it may still be that you have committed unsavory acts without the police being aware of it. It is therefore important that a police record be added only to other information about this person. With regard to the issue of police attestations for persons working as support contacts or relief services for children, the Committee considers that it is as natural that this group should have police clearances as those working in primary school and kindergarten. In addition, support contacts shall be very isolated with the child and shall also be the responsibility of children with disabilities or behavioural problems. These children do not have the same prerequisite for communicating to the outside world about any abuse by other children. On the other hand, there is more disagreement in the Committee as to whether a police record should also be required for support contacts recruited by the family. The majority, with the exception of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, have supported the Minister of Justice's assessment that a distinction must be made between support contacts or offloaders recruited by the municipality and those recruited by the family maritime. The person who recruits the parents is usually a person they trust, and that is not the same need for police clearance. This could be done, for example, by: be a close family member. Moreover, in many cases it would seem directly offensive to require police certification in such contexts. There are limits to what we can achieve through such types of controls in the immediate family. The majority of the Committee opposes the requirement for police attestations for persons participating in voluntary child and youth work. We're afraid there may seem very inhibiting in recruiting leaders for volunteering. Already today, we know that teams and organisations are struggling to get leaders. In addition, we believe that it is difficult to draw up the distinctions in respect of other meeting places of similar character. The proposers propose that persons convicted of moral crimes should not hold posts, either on a voluntary basis or on a paid basis, involving a relationship of trust and responsibility towards minors. In the context of the review of the suspension of the sexual offence committee, the Stortinget adopted a proposal asking the Government to propose that abuse of children as a general rule should lead to the loss of a position involving contact with children. I assume that this will be followed up by the Minister of Justice, and that if not for too long, we will be presented with such a proposal. In addition, the majority of the Committee considers that police certification should also be required for health workers working with children. We are therefore promoting a proposal that the Minister of Justice should consider a legal basis that health workers working with children have to provide a police record in connection with employment. We assume that this too will later be presented in a suitable way to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e266	Children and young people are vulnerable, and it is important that children and parents can have full confidence in people working with children and young people. Government parties are concerned with the safety of children and young people and will do what we can to prevent people who have been convicted of past crimes of morality from being given tasks that could endanger the safety of children. Today, a police record is required for employment in kindergarten, primary school and child protection services. It is an important prevention measure that can prevent convicted offenders from getting close contact with their children in a way that may increase the risk of abuse. The representatives of the Progress Party here propose to make a general demand for a police record for all those working with minors. I would like to stress that a claim for a police certificate alone does not guarantee that a person is fit to work with children and young people. It merely provides an indication of whether one has been previously punished or under investigation for such circumstances. Unfortunately, not all cases are reported, and the evidence is not always sufficient for a conviction. In those cases where the submission of a police certificate may prevent an infringement, this is an important and appropriate measure for certain groups, in the opinion of the government parties. The Ministry has therefore notified in a letter to the Committee that a preliminary authorisation should be given to require a police certificate for detonators and support contacts until a permanent mandate has been drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think it is very positive that the Minister of Justice has taken the initiative. The right takes children's legal certainty seriously. However, when we do not consider it appropriate to support a general requirement for a police record, for example: for managers of non-governmental organisations, this is because it raises more complex issues. Most adults in sport, the speeding movement and other organisations are involved in unremunerated and unremunerated efforts, and we fear, therefore, that a demand for a police record could be hampered and negative for voluntary work. I would also like to remind you that today the police have the right to notify organizations and teams if you are aware that people who have been convicted of moral crimes are heading towards work there. I would like to conclude by saying that the majority of this case believes that the requirement for a police certificate for certain professional groups is a clear contribution to crime prevention and a good instrument for the safety of children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e281	There has been an interesting introduction to this debate. What, unfortunately, is my opinion so far is that you focus on how adults perceive this, and it is with respect to report to the Progress Party a totally wrong approach. What this is all about is how we can prevent child abuse, and then, as adults, we have to take action that affects other adults. But it's a duty and a task for us, and I think we should take inwards. It is in this way that we have the opportunity to protect children from being subjected to abuse. I think that everyone in this room, the few who are here, agrees that the worst thing that can happen to a parent after something like that has happened is that you wonder, what did I do wrong, what else could I do to prevent this from actually happening? That is the intention of our proposal, and I think that is important. I'm sorry, but I think the majority here is defensive. One is concerned that, through a police record, one cannot ensure that abuse occurs. No, for all intents and purposes, we have not said that either. We've said that this is part of a measure to reduce its potential. And that's how every time the Storting takes up a case for treatment, you have the intention to improve the conditions of someone affected. This is also the case in this case. Now the majority are coming down and proposing police clearance also for health workers working with children. Of course, we should support that proposal subsidiaryly, because it is a step in the right direction, even if we think it is far too small. Then you're concerned that this can be inhibitory and negative for volunteers and others who work with children and youth. And once again, you're concerned with the adult approach – not what the children need, but how we're going to take care of and protect adults. And once again, I think that's going to be totally wrong with what's meant by the matter, that's to prevent children from being subjected to abuse as much as possible. And in most cases, unfortunately, adults do, and often, unfortunately, very close family members do. I think that close family members will also understand that when you leave the most valuable thing you have, namely your children, to someone else, you ask questions to make sure they actually take care of them. It's the most important thing in this case. This shows that a similar case of sexual abuse has been dealt with in the past, where the majority said that abuse of children as a general rule should lead to the loss of a position. For the Progress Party, this is far too bad. The offenders should not be in contact with children, and we also felt that what was then too defensive, for there is a signal in this: as a general rule, should lead to a loss of position. We think it's passive and defensive, and it doesn't put the spotlight on adults. That's why it's important for us to go much further in that way. People who commit such acts must not be in contact with children. The growth and future of children is not something you lefler with. There must be clear leads: they must be ensured maximum, and it depends on us as adults. Children do not have that quality and quality until they grow up and learn by being participants in life and society. That's why we adults are going to make sure that these things don't happen, and we're going to do our utmost to prevent it. I take up the proposal of the Progress Party and at the same time warn that we are going to support the subsidiary proposal of the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e295	Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e298	It is good that the Progress Party has promoted this proposal, because we believe it is important that we take these debates into consideration in the Committee. It also gives us an opportunity to discuss a little bit of what works, and what doesn't work. It's also positive. SV has had some contact with the National Resource Centre for sexually abused children, for example: health workers, who have now been submitted as a majority proposal and who are also supporting the Progress Party in a subsidiary manner, but who are initially a proposal from SV. We have also asked the Minister for Health in advance whether he thinks police clearance should be required in healthcare institutions where health workers are going to work with children. The answer I thought was wonderful. It showed that at least the Ministry of Health does not fully understand what the other departments are doing. Reference was made to the Police Register Committee and was of the opinion that this sample should assess this in its work. But we've been in touch with at least one member of this sample, who responded negatively to this claim, and thought they wouldn't touch that particular topic. That is why we come in with this proposal, because we have understood that it is a major problem, among other things. that disabled children and other children who are particularly vulnerable to sexual abuse. We believe that police statements can be an important tool in this regard. In the case of unloaders and support contacts, the undersigned has made a mistake. The comment in the setting that the Christian People's Party has in it, where one does not want to distinguish between deconstructors and support contacts that are recruited by the family seams, and deconstructors and support contacts that are recruited by the public, we should have supported. So we should have supported the minority in this case. But I think it's going to be quite hopeless when the party makes such suggestions about the table on the same day that we're going to give the vote. This is the background that we're not dealing with the minority. So we should have done that. I am also pleased that we have had previous discussions with the Ministry to propose that ‘infringement of children as a general rule should lead to the loss of a position involving contact with children’, and that the proposal of the Progress Party has been respected in this way. But I want to ask a few questions to the Progress Party anyway. I think it is commendable that the party is raising these debates, and I have also understood that the party has taken inward that the proposals that the party is promoting will not be a guarantee against children experiencing abuse in the future. But I think it would be time that the Progress Party might have promoted some proposals that had worked much more than these proposals. For example, why has not the Progress Party called for the strengthening of child protection? Why has not the Progress Party called for the strengthening of treatment provision for offenders? After all, the party of progress is the one who wants the most severe punishments in any context and especially for sexual perpetrators. What also makes this problematic is that many of the overgrown seamen are victims. They have been subjected to sexual assaults such as children or gross care failure, have not been caught up in society, and have thus committed assaults, among others. because some of them have major problems dealing with adults, not because they necessarily have a pedophile lay. These are difficult questions, but what is absolutely certain, is that treatment could have helped a good part of them, and thus could prevent new victims from being exposed to these people since then. So I'm going to challenge the Progress Party to expand its horizon a little bit in terms of justice policy, and they're also making sure that there's money inside for treatment, which can help the whole community forward, and not just come up with the easiest solutions. It seems to me that in some contexts the party has good proposals, the party could have made more accurate and even more expensive measures sometimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e313	The most important task we adults have is to get secure conditions for the growth of our children. Children shall be safe at home, in kindergarten, at school, together with a support contact, together with child protection employees, etc. Our duty is to try to create the desired security. The requirement for police attestations for persons working with children and young people is an important measure. Through this, we can prevent people who have been punished in the past for moral crimes from being given tasks that bring them into contact with children in such a way that abuse can take place. For the Christian People's Party, the rehabilitation aspect in criminal matters is central. We believe in the expression 'blank sheets with color sticks for'. But when it comes to the safety of children and the protection of the most valuable things we have, we take no chances. The children have first priority, and we do not want to risk past convictions of criminals violating them again. Many parents with disabled children recruit support contacts and relievers themselves. These are familiar with the family and have the trust of both parents and the child. Should a police record be required in such cases? For the Christian People's Party, the answer is clear. The vast majority of cases of sexual assault are committed by known people. Therefore, the requirement for a police attestation should also apply to private staff support contacts and deloaders. If you have a legal requirement to obtain such a certificate prior to recruitment, neither your parent nor the child's caregiver will experience discomfort by requiring and submitting a police certificate. Neither the Workers' Party, Right nor SV supports the proposal for a police certificate for detonators and support contacts. This is alarming. Children with relievers and/or support contacts are often the most vulnerable — those who deserve most protection. The fact that this proposal is not supported by more is both sad and incomprehensible. Finally, I would like to commend the Minister of Justice for having addressed the important issue raised in Document No properly and proactively. 8:117. The Ministry of Justice has actively pursued follow-up activities in other sectors. This is an example for follow-up. I look forward to examining the notified legislative proposals from among others. The Ministry of Health. The availability of police certification requirements in more cases than specific legislation is now possible through regulatory design is a necessary solution immediately. This concerns our children, the most valuable thing we own. The government’s response to the proposal contributes to increased security for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e328	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e331	I decided to take the floor when the representative Ellings explained the position of the Progress Party, which has become quite typical when we are discussing criminal-political will, the will of justice and, to the extent possible, the policy of justice. The strategy is to accuse the other parties – who are not willing to go as far in a specific matter as the Progress Party does in this matter – of being almost willless in relation to the important problem we are actually facing here. I think it's a little strange that it's the Progress Party that's riding this argument right on this case, where you're actually also colliding with very important principles that the Progress Party has previously prejudiced, the question of the individual's freedom, and the extent to which we're going to demand control and certificates from almost everyone. Because it is the case that at least some of us will meet a certain number of conditions when it comes to police statements, and that is what we see in the situation in this case. I expect that the Progress Party will also see that, within the private sphere, it will be impractical to require a police record. However, I ask the question: is it such that we are now moving in a direction where police statements and so far control into the private sphere are also acceptable progress party policies? This is dangerous. It is dangerous for several reasons, and the most important one, there have been several of the representatives involved, is that this is not effective in the fight to prevent child abuse, because it does not at all identify the possible offenders – many of them are not convicted. Another very important aspect is that this way of driving policies actually helps derail those measures that really help. Representative No Marte Thorkildsen from SV has been involved in this: Where is the Progress Party when we are discussing the measures that really help? I would like to add to the list that Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen was on: Where is the Progress Party on the issue of the liberalisation of sexual legislation, pornography, drugs, which we know has a very close relationship with child abuse? Where is the Progress Party in these contexts? I think it's too bad that the Progress Party is always going to take credit for being the most active in these fields, when we know they're going to fail where it really applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e339	Thank you for the challenge, first of all from the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party. To SV: Politics is about making what you actually stand for visible. Of course, on the same line as SV, the Progress Party does. It is said that it is about a profile of what you do, in relation to caring for more pieces and reducing crime indirectly by other means. Yes, it is clear that it is part of the overall assessment made by any political party, including the Progress Party. We have our clear priorities, in line with what SV has. Both the representative of Thorkildsen and the representative of Storberget stated that there was no guarantee against an infringement. No, and it is regrettable – if it had been so simple, I should have made suggestions a long time ago. But the point is that there is a contribution to reducing the possibility of abuse. That's our intention, and I assume that everyone agrees. With regard to our ability to strengthen actions that work, I assume that the Progress Party should have an open position on all good proposals, regardless of who promotes them, and make an assessment of them, whether there are things that we can support, or not will support. In extending it, I can show that in our alternative state budget, we are strengthening the criminal justice system, for example. with 142 million. kr. Now, unfortunately, it was not adopted, in line with what SV might have wanted for its budget, but it is at least a signal that there is a priority there. The representative of Storberget is concerned that we are "accused" the other parties. No, I don't know if we've done it. In that case, perhaps the representative Storberget has perceived it this way. What I've said about is the story, what we've done, and what the other parties have done. That's gotta be allowed. I keep recording that the representative Storberget has a desire to tell me what a bad job the Progress Party is doing, and then it must be in his place that I am allowed to say something about how I perceive what the Workers' Party is doing. And they talk about "the freedom of the individual". Yes, of course, the individual should have a freedom, but not at the expense of the children – not at all! If it is the case that the representative Storberget has experienced something like this, at least I hope he will not experience it several times from some of the representatives of the Progress Party. Kids are one of the most precious things we have, and one of the things we're going to put the most into screening. That's the way it has been, and that's how it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e353	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 712]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e369	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e376	The representative of Storting Jan Arild Ellingsen has presented a Document No. 8-proposals asking the Government to propose that criminal law be amended in order to introduce non-criminal and unconditional additional penalties, without any reduction, if criminals use or possess weapons when committing criminal offences. The reasons for the proposal show that more and more criminals are arming themselves when carrying out criminal acts. This trend has led to a harsher and more brutal society as well as a higher risk for those who happen to be, or for service reasons, standing face to face with the criminals. The proposer believes that society should give strong signals that it is actually undesirable behavior to arm itself when committing criminal acts. The undersigned is of the opinion that, in addition, it is undesirable behaviour to actually commit the criminal acts. The proposer believes that a permanent additional prison sentence should be imposed — without any reduction — if someone uses weapons when committing a criminal offence. This proposal is, in fact, an attempt to impose minimum penalties for criminal offences involving the use of weapons. I would like to point out that the issues are being discussed in the Penal Court's sub-committee VII, cf. Now 2002:4. Before such a practice is adopted, there is a need for a fundamental review of the use of minimum penalties. In this context, I would like to refer to the Minister of Justice's letter to the Committee of 2 July 2002, which states that this will be done as part of the follow-up to the Criminal Investigation Commission. The size has earlier this year, prior to Document No. The 8th proposal, adopted a number of legislative amendments aimed at reducing, inter alia, the illegal use of drugs. Knives and firearms, cf. Inner. O. No 62 for 2001-2002. Among other things, there were: the penalties for the acquisition of illegal weapons with the intention of committing a criminal offence lifted up to a maximum of 10 years in very serious cases. The police have also had an extended access to search for knives and firearms. In today's legal state there shall be a penalty-sharpening moment if someone uses their weapons in a criminal act. As I said, the Stortinget has already adopted stricter penalties for gross violence. Time will show whether the courts take sufficient account of this in their judgments. When a total or a majority of the Grand Duchy adopts criminal acts, it is for the judicial authority to comply with those decisions. In that case, previous judgments shall not give effect, except that the judgment shall be more stringent than the case before the amendment of the law. If criminal atrocities are not taken into account in judgments, the Stortinget could, on a later occasion, consider imposing minimum penalties, but then as a result of the handling of the Criminal Felony Commission’s investigation. As a result of a more brutal and brutal crime, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progressive Party, is asking the Ministry to organise a continuation of sanctions for use and, in particular, for the threat of the use of weapons in criminal acts. There is therefore a proposal to this effect. Many people are subjected to brutal violence, but in addition, many are also exposed to threats of violence. This is for those who are subjected to it, a very heavy burden, which can easily lead to mental suffering for the rest of their lives. Many people find it frustrating that threats to the use of weapons are in many cases rather mildly punished when the long-term impact on individuals can be equally burdensome. In principle, the use of minimum penalties or mandatory penalties may have adverse side-effects. Minimum penalties may limit the discretionary ability of courts to apply a most appropriate response. Other forms of reaction, such as: different training or rehabilitation programmes may in some cases be more appropriate than prison sentences. Therefore, a restriction on the ability of courts to use other forms of reaction may, in fact, result in wrongful acquittals or lessen criminal penalties. The aim is to reduce the crime of violence. This may be achieved not only through the use of minimum penalties or increased penalties alone, but through good and preventative police work, improved investigation methods, faster resolution of the criminal response chain and a good follow-up. Finally, I would just like to reiterate that the Storting asks the Government to organise a criminal strengthening for the use – and in particular for the threat of use – of weapons in criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e405	I also think it is very important, as the rapporteur was in it, in many ways to give signals from the Parliament's pulpit in relation to the need for continued tightening in terms of the level of penalties for the type of crime that we are discussing here. Violence crimes committed with weapons are well the type of violent crimes that are now ‘wearing the most’ in several local environments, and the gross violence is actually also the one that is growing to a greater extent than other types of violence. So this is the reason to take it seriously. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that the courts have actually taken the Storting's signals seriously over several years, in particular through the change in the law that the Stortinge did when not only arms were included, but also particularly dangerous tools, such as. bottles, coffee glasses, clubs, etc. This is something you don't traditionally characterize as a weapon, but that when you use it as it is, it is to characterize as a particularly dangerous tool. I therefore see that the proposal of the Progress Party greatly limits much of the legal status that we actually have today, by making it clear in the Penal Code, according to the unanimous decision of the Stortinge, that when using particularly dangerous tools, it must be punishable. In all material cases, prison sentences are now also imposed unconditionally. So, in the view of the Workers' Party, the penalties are known enough and the possibilities to react absolutely are present. What, on the other hand, is a problem with regard to this type of proposal, and with which we politicians in many ways have to take a settlement, is the kind of policy that is seen here to be prejudiced, that in many ways the possibility of the courts to react with shades is limited. Today, we are increasingly confident that justice and criminal law will solve much of the undesirable behavior that is out there in society. And that's good. But when we give the courts more power to intervene before it becomes judgment, i.e. in the form of custody, while at the same time we want to give stricter sanctions, and to use the sanctions more, I think that we politicians should be careful to limit the discretion that the courts have always had. Because we politicians are always the first to scream out if we see that the reaction hasn't worked. It is stated in joint comments in budgetary positions from year to year that we demand that the results of the courts become more appropriate and that they also need to be more appropriate. The Advance Party has also supported the desire to expand, inter alia. the out-of-court settlement scheme. Then I would like to ask the Progress Party to tell me if there are any local co-judges from the Progress Party out in the whole country who, on the basis of such a proposal, would condemn a 16-year-old who has waving some knife in a threatening situation, to unconditional imprisonment when you see that there are completely different measures that help. Or would you take a drug addict who has room in some institution and can zone there, and who has done the same with some tool that can be characterized as a weapon, and destroy a positive rehabilitation because we've decided here in Stortinget that it should be a firm, unconditional prison sentence. This is a kind of policy, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur, who too severely limits the possibilities of the courts and makes them less able to achieve the objectives which a majority in this Chamber, including the Progress Party, has actually helped set. What we have also seen, and which should make us particularly skeptical about limiting such a firm punishment, is that in cases where we have a minimum penalty today, the courts have actually suggested acquittal because it seems that the penalties are too strict. Good examples in this way are, of course, the minimum penalty that you have for counterfeiting, which, however, is beginning to be a few years old. Today, when a 16-17-year-old is convicted of having used the scanner in the boys' room to counterfeit money, a fixed minimum sentence is laid down in the penal code for three years in prison. It is clear that it is consistent with most co-judges and also with professionals that such punishment should be imposed. It just shows that when we're going to use the criminal justice system more to solve social problems, we also have to give the courts the confidence to measure a discretionary response that actually works. The proposal we have here on the table is a step in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e418	I am constantly listening with interest to my political colleagues and co-debateants, for it is so that it is not bad to manage the whole and the whole truth alone. It's through debates that you can go up the boundary lines between each other. So also in this debate. In the previous debate, we heard a hint that the Progress Party went the farthest on a number of issues and had a wrong approach to the problem. I also hear that in this matter, by the representative of Storberget. For the Progress Party, this is an important matter. We are concerned about the gross violence that we unfortunately record in society, in line with what the two previous speakers have been. But the difference is what we want to do with it. We have said that for our part, where weapons are used, we want a criminal force to impose unconditional prison sentences. For us, it's about giving a signal about the severity of this type of crime. That's what's the primary thing in the case. Then it's claimed that we're putting leadership on the courts and the ability of the courts to exercise judgment. But I did believe, with all due respect, that the Stortinget was the legislator, issuing the laws, and then it was up to the courts to manage them within the framework they were given. Sometimes it may seem that the courts disagree with the Storting or refuse to take in the signals from Stortinget. In any case, as a magnificence representative, I sometimes stumble over some criminal measurements that I read about, or in other ways be informed about, as I think is a clear breach of what I actually thought Stortinget had given a signal about. That's why it's important for the Progress Party to give a signal that in some context it's time we said that enough is enough. It's also quite correct, as others have said, that we got a criminal tightening now in ours, which is a step in the right direction. But also there went the Progress Party anymore, not because we want to be the best in the class, but we actually think it's so serious that it's time to do something more drastic with it. It's one of our approaches to this. At least I assume that the courts, which I was in the meantime, are dealing with and following up the signals given from here, it is a unanimous decision of the Stortinget or other recordings coming from here. The representative of Storberget also wondered how the Progress Party would deal with outlaws, how to do so in relation to the punishment measurement. I find it difficult to answer, but I assume that they exercise a discretion that is reasonable, based on what kind of case they have, and what kind of framework the Storting has set in relation to what they are charged with. I have that confidence in them, that they do. At least I think it's the way you're going to deal with this. As I said, it's clear to us that we have to do something, and we're doing it by giving a signal to the criminals that a behavior out there where you're armed is unacceptable. It is true that when you come to the Storting on Mondays and read the papers, in very many cases you have to be prepared for a small media storm because there has been a lot of crime this weekend. We can discuss the background to that, but it is a fact that crime is committed that we are often asked if we have a view of. For the Progress Party, we believe in many ways that we are too defensive. It takes too long to get matters through the criminal chain, and not least we are struggling with settlements. It is a matter which the Committee has been concerned about more than once, and which is also an essential moment now when we are discussing the budget for next year. We all have challenges, but this particular issue is a clear political issue where the dividing lines go between what we stand for and what the rest of the committee stands for. I would like to conclude by saying that we are going to subsidize the proposal that the majority has promoted. Finally, I would like to raise the proposal of the Party of Presidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e439	The representative has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e442	I have to say that I am actually tempted to do something as unusual as subtracting myself from the list of speakers here from the pulpit, after hearing the contributions of the representative of Storberget, because I think it was a very excellent post. What's the problem, as I see it, is that some of these proposals that come from the Progress Party seem incredibly reasonable and incredibly fair. Why don't we just lock up people who have used weapons to commit criminal acts? It works completely in its place. The problem arises, among other things, as the representative of Storberget points out, when, for example: is a 15-year-old who has committed the criminal act. Are you going to jail the 15-year-old, completely independent of any mitigating circumstances, regardless of whether this is a sensible long-term measure? I believe that we, as justice politicians, need to take more things into account. First, it concerns the victim who has been subjected to a criminal act. Secondly, there are also future victims of criminal acts. It actually means a lot. You can get a lot of pleasure, for example. to castrate rapists, because one thinks: Fy sad, if it had happened to me or my sister, there is no punishment that is appropriate, because this is to destroy life. But it's not always that those reactions are smart. It's not always so that it's smart, for example. to lock up sexual offenders without offering them any treatment. Because when they release again, they can be much more dangerous than when they came in, and it can hit new victims. We had e.g. a discussion earlier this year, if we were to ‘oute’ sexual abusers on a separate website, with name and address. It was because the Progress Party then thought it was important to prevent abuse, because then all the neighbors knew that this person had committed sexual assaults earlier. But if this can lead to the human being never getting started again, never getting new friends, never getting the opportunity to function as a normal human being, with e.g. Sexual relations with other adults can lead to new abuses later, and thus new victims. Have we done our job? If the fact that the courts cannot judge each case separately, but must any criminal who has committed a criminal act by using weapons lead to man not being rehabilitated, but getting worse, have we done our job, or have we done a bear service? What I think is going to be so hopeless, is when the representative Ellingsen says that Stortinget's job is in a way to decide over the courts. We're going to try not to regulate them in detail. It is actually a point to try to avoid imposing such detailed requirements that the courts cannot use discretion. The point is that they meet each and every one of them. We're not doing that. We do not have the opportunity to go into each case and consider what is actually mitigating circumstances. In parts of the United States, they've done it so that they've made their own tables. They then ask a number of questions, such as:: Has he committed criminal acts earlier? OK, then we add in a few years. So, on the basis of some given criteria, they can come up with an entirely appropriate punishment. They explicitly say that no account should be taken of any mitigating circumstances — not with regard to age, not with regard to growth, not with regard to any mental condition. Nothing. Then justice is to be done to the fullest. I mean, it's quite a berry trip, because you don't get people rehabilitated! It's a completely meaningless treatment of people, and it leads to a society that we don't want at all. What I think is so worrying is when the Progress Party at the same time stands for a policy, where we're going to be a lot tougher, as they say, to criminals, without necessarily saying that this is a sensible course of action. On the other hand, the batch is to deregulate all the way and ensure that we have the least possible safety nets, make sure that child protection really works as badly as possible – that's what the batch does – so that we don't catch people along the way. It reminds me a little bit of the attitude of the policeman we met in New York, who thought that when children have committed a criminal act, they get to thank themselves for the reaction they get – which in this case was to be locked inside a cell of 10 m2 with men who just wanted to rape them – because they knew what was the result of such an action. We're not going to think that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e459	Crime has become rougher and more organised in recent years. The use of weapons is increasing in the context of crime. This is a frightening development. Developments require not only increased prevention efforts but also increased police efforts on the investigation side and clearer responses from society. The clear message of the Christian People's Party is and will be that crime in all forms is unacceptable. The representative of Ellingen believes to draw dividing lines between the Advance Party and other parties in this matter. It's going to be wrong. A firm attitude to the fight against crime necessarily implies retaliation as a measure. The measures taken in this case are intended to facilitate the reinforcement of all lots. But the Progress Party's proposal to impose firm, unconditional prison sentences if someone uses weapons when committing a criminal act is little nuanced. The fact that you have to be able to define yourself and be still in a separate class because you're unyanished is going to be wrong. The proposal also testifies to a lack of understanding that, through its proceedings, the courts should and should have a certain freedom to measure penalties as appropriate in the individual case. The case actually deals with a proposal on minimum penalties. The penal and other professional environments express great scepticism for the use of minimum penalties. We in the Christian People's Party are also concerned about increasing the use of minimum penalties. We know that it is difficult to understand the consequences of such generally designed legislation. There may be cases that the legislator has overlooked, and it is important that the courts are given the opportunity to carry out a specific criminal investigation. In addition, minimum penalties may, in experience, lead to grossly unfair individual results or to legally dubious acquittals. The Christian People's Party does not want any such consequences. The use of weapons is per person. Today, a criminally sharp element in criminal matters. The penalty should be increased in such cases, and in my experience it does. Fixed response that corresponds to the crime — yes — but punishments that do not provide a necessary room for the judgment of the court, that is the Christian People’s Party against.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e472	Carsten Dybevig has had the word once before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e475	I take the floor because Inga Marte Thorkildsen came up with a description of the situation in New York. She described that the police nearly raped those who were picked up on the street, who were running juvenile delinquency when they were put in custody. It's a frightening experience, if that's right, but at least that's not how I experienced it when I was in New York. I experienced the police as actually very capable and very «down to earth». They had a very good knowledge of what happened out on the street, they actually had a very good overview of how juvenile delinquency was in New York, and they gave a nuanced picture of how they were going to fight this. It's not right, as No Marte Thorkildsen says, that they used only punishment as the only way to solve juvenile delinquency. In fact, the same police officer as Inga Marte Thorkildsen is aiming for stated that there were over a thousand youth programs for young criminals in New York. And New York has come very far from combating juvenile delinquency, both because you have zero tolerance in relation to crime, and because you've got a number of social programs to get young people out of different types of youth. It's almost a religious sect, these youths. We have similar youth organisations in Norway. We may not have correspondingly developed programs that you have in New York. Perhaps there would have been something to fight for in Norway, too, to get similar views from the police in relation to these youth gangs, both in terms of treatment and communication between the youth and the police. I think we have a lot to learn. But the credibility that No Marte Thorkildsen now shows in relation to the description she gave of New York, I don't think is good. If the equivalent credibility we are going to have in relation to the experiences that Thorkildsen has on similar issues in Norway, then I don't know what. But at least it's important to have a nuanced picture of the crime we have. One of the factors that is important to establish is that it is not just punishment that is important here in this case in relation to the fight against crime. In fact, there is good police work, improved investigation methods, not least a faster winding-up in the criminal response chain and, ultimately, a good follow-up. It also includes a good social network around those who actually commit criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e486	Now President Inga Marte Thorkildsen didn't realize that she was accusing the police of carrying out rapes. It was probably in other institutions she feared it. No Marte Thorkildsen has asked for the floor and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e492	I can reassure the representative Deepevig that he misunderstood. The point was that when we were visiting NYPD's local police station, the policeman who accepted us believed that we were policemen, so he was probably a little bit more outspoken than the police usually are when they meet a Justice Department on their way. But I think that was an advantage in itself, because then we learned the truth. The truth was, of course, that the police don't rape minors or anything like that. The truth was that he told us that when a youth – or it could be a child, because they have a criminal detainee of six years, so that it could be a young person – has committed a criminal act and has been warned in advance that this criminal act can lead to his ending on a cell as large as the room in which he himself showed us – that was, let's say, about. 10-15 m2 – with 20 people fighting for him as his sex slave, and he laughs for this, then I don't feel sorry for him, because he knew what the consequence was. I told you. That's what the policeman said to us. I have to say that I think it is strange if not more than I reacted to this and perhaps also asked myself the question: what in the world can we learn from this man? I believe that it was a very strange experience, and my intention instead was not to insinuate that the representative Ellingsen or the Progress Party believes that this is future for Norwegian prisons. The purpose was to illustrate a little bit how it can go if we start to ignore the perfectly reasonable, factual arguments about what works, and just start thinking about what should be a fair, perhaps violent, reaction in the individual cases, instead of focusing on rehabilitation and the possibility of, for example, Young people will manage when they get back into society, or make sure that we get punishments to help young people start a law-abiding life. There may be many reasons why those youths have slipped on the outside, if not necessarily evil.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e504	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 712]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e519	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will also propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e528	This private proposal from the Socialist Left is based on the fact that the state is taking over the entire funding of the crisis centres. There are about 50 crisis centres in Norway. These are currently financed by the State, by the municipalities and in some cases also by county municipalities and other contributors. The State grant shall cover 50 pst of budgeted expenditure on establishment and operation and shall be granted subject to equivalent local funding. Crisis centres are an important part of the lowthreshold provision for women at risk of violence, which it is important to ensure to provide these women with the help they need in a difficult life situation. It is such that the government already in St. Prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, for the Ministry of Children and the Family, notified of an assessment of the conversion of the crisis response grant scheme. This case has also been dealt with by Stortinget in connection with St.prp. No 62 for 1999-2000 on the municipal economy in 2001. In St. prp. No 62 a plan for the liquidation or inclusion of earmarked grants was presented in the income system for the period 2001-2007. Under this plan, the earmarked grant for crisis measures shall be included in the framework grant to municipalities as of 2004. The size decision on this was made in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 2000–2001 for the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, where a unanimous increase was in favour of this. In retrospect, at least two governments have followed up this work: First the Labour Party Government and now the Cooperation Government. During the Labour Party Government, the Women's Violence Committee was also set up, as part of a reinforced effort for violent women. In its mandate, the Committee on Women’s Violence was asked to assess how crisis centres can improve their offer, including recommending the possible legalisation of aid to crisis centres in the context of reconversion of funding. The committee will deliver its inquiry in September 2003 but, in the interests of the 2003-2004 budgetary process, has provided an interim report in the autumn, such as: makes a recommendation on the financing of crisis centres. The clear recommendation of the Women's Violence Committee to the Government in this interim report is that the current grant scheme with earmarked grants for crisis centres be maintained until the sample has provided its investigation next year. The Committee considers that any conversion of the scheme should take place at the earliest for the financial year 2005-2006. I think we should have confidence in the Women's Violence Committee. Had there been an economic crisis for the crisis centres, I think the Women's Violence Committee had never made such a recommendation. A majority of the Committee, like the Ministry, believes that a postponement of the 2005 conversion will be problematic, because there is a great need to change the current funding mechanism and to provide more predictable funding for crisis centres as soon as possible. It's important to point out that for the current year, the municipalities have spent a total of 5 million. more on crisis measures. That means 10 million. Total kr since the government has to cancel out with the same amount. This shows that municipalities generally give priority to action for women in a difficult life situation. But for those crisis centres in a difficult economic situation, an overall government committee asks to look at immediate action to do something about it. It is important here that cooperation be established with the individual municipalities concerned. I note that SV has made a proposal on this. This proposal seeks to support the parties to the Government. We record that the Ministry will continue its work during 2003 with a view to ensuring the quality of the supply provided by the crisis centres. It should also be assessed whether the activities of crisis centres need to be regulated by the State when the responsibility for supporting operations is transferred to the municipalities. There are different options here, where the law enforcement of the enterprise is one. It is also necessary to assess the need for transitional arrangements for the current crisis centres in order to ensure the operation against the uncertainty that will result from a reconversion of funding. This gives us the opportunity to come back and discuss in full if not for too long. The majority therefore consider that it would be most appropriate to await the work of the Committee on Women’s Violence and the Ministry and not to adopt changes in the financing model of the crisis measures in the middle of an ongoing process, as a broad majority have previously adopted. On this basis, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal from the SV be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e551	It is important that we now get some of the things that sort out under crisis measures in the municipalities. Some of these responsibilities are not required by law, and thus they can easily fall out of a municipal budget where you may have already cut down on statutory tasks. This is what our 50 crisis centres are now experiencing. With a 50/50-percent division between the municipality and the state, with today's municipal economy, you probably will never reach the allocation that crisis centres should have had. It can't go on like that. The Ministry is now working on a proposal to include the earmarked grants for, among others. the crisis centres in the framework of the municipalities adopted by the Stortinget. But what does it do when there's too little money in the municipalities anyway? This is the only low threshold we have for these women who have experienced both violence and humiliation for a long time. What's even worse is the children's situation in these conflict-affected conditions. There are more and more children applying for crisis centres. We know that the crisis centres have been and are driven on an ideological basis. This is how these centres were started at the end of the 1970s to provide women and children with a safe temporary housing and care provision in an acute and threatened situation. Some municipalities have seen and understood the work done by crisis centres and have also participated with financial support. This financial support fell away from some crisis centres when the state took over the hospitals. On a question to the State Council on the relationship with extractions of funds in connection with the state takeover of hospitals, the Committee was asked, inter alia, to: this to answer: «Aids to the crisis centres have not been part of the specialist health service and are therefore not part of the extraction from county municipalities by state acquisition of hospitals.» Sometimes there's a very long way between life and learning. For several years, the county of Nordland has supported the eight crisis centres of the county. This has been out of the post somatic and was therefore withdrawn during the process of taking over the hospitals. The municipality of Nordland has sent two letters to the Minister of Health about this particular case – the first in February of this year and the second in October – that the crisis centres in Nordland lost their annual support and needed help. Unfortunately, the Minister of Health has neither cared about the crisis centres nor taken the trouble of giving an answer to the county council. Crisis centres around the country are threatened with closure. The Government must then not only look at, but find means of immediate action until the Women's Violence Commission's investigation takes place in the autumn of 2003, and the matter again, hopefully, is in Stortinget. The glow of employees and volunteers in this work should be rewarded with better predictability, when we know that the number, not least of immigrant women coming to the crisis centres, is only increasing. We now go into – too many – the most beautiful time of the year, namely Christmas. It's not like that for everyone. Christmas is the worst time for many women and for very many children. The number of women and children coming to the crisis centres is increasing considerably during the Christmas season. What should be a joy becomes too many just sorrow. Think of the children in such a situation! The Workers' Party will increase the State part of the crisis centres from 50 pst. to 80 pst. as from 1 January 2003 to facilitate the responsibilities of the municipalities, and we had hoped to have more parties involved. But no, it will not be the government parties and the Progress Party – unfortunately. SV will support us subsidiaryly. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e582	Torny Pedersen has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e585	The Progress Party is concerned about the future operation of crisis centres in order to integrate the grant to the municipalities for crisis response into the framework grant. We have noticed that there is work going on in the department assessing the inclusion of grants in the income system of municipalities from 2004 and that state grants to crisis centres are part of this inclusion. When we know that many municipalities are struggling financially, it is obvious that a result of such a reorganisation could be that crisis centres are being sacrificed in a municipal budget struggle. This is not a statutory task, which makes the centres further vulnerable. At best, we only get a situation of great variety from municipality to municipality. Worst of all, the offer disappears completely. There is little doubt that the services provided by crisis centres are needed. It is very unfortunate that, because of the lack of funding, this offer is drastically reduced. The Progress Party cannot see a reduction in the offer of vulnerable women and children because it does not agree on who will finance the crisis measures. The Progress Party believes that the financing of crisis measures must be primarily a task for the State, so that, irrespective of where you live, equal provision, funding and equal treatment of centres are ensured. It will also provide the crisis centres with predictable framework conditions. With this, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Progress Party wishes to support proposal No. 5, which is distributed from SV in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e598	Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e601	The background to the SV proposals that are on the table here today is that crisis centres are in an acutely dramatic economic situation. The crisis centres in Norway were started by firessellers on a voluntary basis. The geographical coverage varies. The purpose of the establishment of crisis centres was — and is — to provide a safe, temporary provision of housing and care to women and children in an acute and threatening situation. The number of users at each centre varies. Crisis centres have been groundbreaking in relation to families in a crisis situation for all years and have become familiar with new societal problems. Crisis centres have for several years been concerned with and familiarized with the problems of immigrant women in relation to forced marriages, threats and gender mutilation. There are about 50 crisis centres in the country. These are financed by the State and the municipality, and in some cases also by the county and other contributors. The State contribution shall cover 50 pst. budgeted expenditure on establishment and operation, and provided for a corresponding local financing. The use of resources at crisis centres is currently more a result of available resources than of the real needs of users. This is not predictable for the operation of crisis centres, and it is not a good enough offer for users. The crisis centres are the part of the auxiliaries that works best for abused and raped women and their children, showing the VISTA report, prepared by the VISTA Investigation on behalf of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. It has been shown that the centres operate economically precisely, but there are large cost differences. Today, the economy and welfare of each social office are crucial for women and children fleeing from violent men to receive the help and protection they need. Today’s economic situation means that much of the resource use in crisis centres contributes to the provision of operational resources. The salaries of staff at the various centres vary greatly. The 2002 draft budget of the Ministry of Children and the Family states that the grant scheme for crisis centres is unforeseeable and that the allocation is not manageable by the State. The size of the grant also does not correspond to the activities and voluntary efforts of the centres, but is guided by the support of the municipalities and other donors. The cross-ministerial working group set up in spring 1999 to investigate the grant scheme did not complete its work. It is now important to set up a new funding model for crisis centres with a more predictable government grant, making it easier to plan long-term for crisis centres. The crisis centres as a detention centre have a level above poor standards and are not appropriate in relation to operations. The centres are often not organized for children and their needs, and with threats, danger of killing, gross violence and fear from criminal environments, it is difficult to provide adequate protection in many centres. We have more examples of that. It is also poorly organised for disabled people in today's crisis centre. A rehabilitation and extensive construction of new centres are therefore to be expected. The Committee on Women’s Violence, the Ministry and the Government have not taken on board the fact that the crisis centres are now in an acute crisis due to poor local economy, and that county municipalities are withdrawing their sub-financing because the funds were withdrawn from their transition to health enterprises. Some municipalities financed their centres from the health budget. Threats of closure from several places in the country are now being reported because the centres are not a statutory task. This is in stark contrast to the Government's commitment to work against violence and to crisis work. It is tragic that the Government imposes on women this important and socially useful work without facilitating it. It's beggars, cacolotters, and women's ability to stretch like a piece that keeps the crisis centers going. But the knit is too long. This is where women’s volunteering is exploited far beyond what is right. We are facing challenges and new issues in our crisis centres that require a completely different apparatus than before. It's the responsibility of the public. I expect the Council of State to take inward the majority comment of a unanimous committee, promoted as proposal No. 5, from me and Torny Pedersen from the Workers' Party. We ask ‘The government is looking at immediate measures, given the difficult economic situation of many crisis centres today. It also asks the Government to find a solution for the crisis centres that have lost municipal support due to the crisis. extraction of county funds as a consequence of state acquisition of hospitals»; I also maintain the SV's two suggestions in the setting, and hope that we can vote on the two proposals first. Subsidized, we will support the proposals of the Labour Party and the proposals of the Progress Party. I bring up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e633	The President shall try to settle the vote in such a way as to satisfy most of the needs. So there was a correction of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox The proposal was made on behalf of both May Hansen and Torny Pedersen. The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e640	We've all noticed, at least through the media, that crisis centers all over the country are struggling with difficult economy and threatened by closure. Therefore, there is good reason to commend those who have made sure that this matter is dealt with in the storeroom today. Crisis centres are established on local initiative and geographical coverage varies greatly. Here in Oslo there is only one such centre, and in large parts of the country there is an inappropriately long road to the nearest crisis centre. Today, the crisis centres are financed by the state, municipalities and, in some cases, by funds from counties and other contributors. The State contribution shall cover 50 pst. budgeted expenditure on establishment and operation, and provided for corresponding local funding. The use of resources is currently more a result of available resources locally than the real need that should be met. This creates a slightly predictable operation. Sub-financing through county councils has in several cases disappeared, while the county council has lost its responsibility for health work. This is a reality. The economy of the municipalities is also limited in non-statutory tasks. Therefore, the situation is critical, and therefore it is necessary for the Storting to ensure predictable and necessary funding. The Centre Party wants the tasks of the welfare society that municipalities have been given confidence in to be financed as far as possible through framework funding. However, with today's municipal economy, we cannot be involved in imposing new tasks on the municipalities and will possibly come back to inclusion in the framework grant once the coverage has increased in line with the local needs, and when we are confident that the municipalities are able to take responsibility for this task. Taking the consequences of the need documented, we see that a new funding model must be established to ensure the further operation and development of the offer. We cannot sit and watch that the offer of vulnerable women and children is being reduced because one cannot agree on who is going to finance the measures. On this basis, the Centre Party, together with SV, is in agreement with the proposed principle of State assumption of responsibility for the financing of crisis centres. Subsidy, we will also support the proposals of the Progress Party, where the Government is asked to submit proposals for a government funding model in the 2004 Municipal Proposition. With regard to SV's proposal on the legalisation of the offer, the Centre Party wishes to await the position of the Women's Violence Committee before we decide on this issue, and we will therefore vote against this proposal today. In view of the acute situation described here by several, the Centre Party also considers that there is reason to support the SVS, and now also the Workers' Party, proposals presented in the Chamber today, or a proposal which is entirely in line with the comments of a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e659	The Left agrees with the position of the majority of the Committee in this matter and also with the various majority comments. Crisis centres were established on a voluntary basis, based on individuals who took responsibility. This commitment is important that we build on and keep. Part of the local involvement is also the municipal appropriations for the crisis centres, and the principle of this matter is the confidence of the local elected level. When you say in the setting that these centres are ‘lighted a balancing item’, and when the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party say in the setting that these are ‘measures that are most likely to be deleted first’, it is an expression of a fundamental mistrust of local elected representatives and their sense of responsibility. Such distrust is not shared by the Left. We believe that increased municipal maritime governance – and not less – needs to be developed. We note that the majority of the committee, all except SV, emphasises the opinion of the municipal committee on the reduction of «detail management of the municipal sector», but for some it is very difficult to follow this up in practice. The belief that big business politicians know best is always great among big business politicians. SV launched a few years ago to become the local Democratic Party. It's obviously forgotten. SV fights instead with the Progress Party to become the Centralisation Party No. 1st@item: inlistbox Turning the debate here into for and against crisis centres is completely wrong. It should be everyone in this room who knows the Left, also knows, with the commitment we have had, and with all that our Minister of Justice has done in this whole field. Personally, I have a great deal of respect for the job that those who do in this area actually do, but the basis for their existence is volunteering, and volunteering is also the reason for the great commitment that exists there. I have had some strong experiences in relation to the job done here, and one of the strongest I had in Greenland, which has a crisis centre – there is one crisis centre in the capital – where they offer a one-night break. That's all they have to offer. This is a country where it is difficult to escape from the problems. I'm touched by all the energy being used, and all that commitment being shown. But I don't think we would have gotten as far as we've come in this area, if it had been state involvement. I think it's by burning the fires, by letting the fires have a close relationship with their financial institutions, that people care. They create larger movements, which means that we can actually fight down the attitudes of society that need to be reduced. I think local funding and local involvement will always be the key to getting into the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e677	I am concerned that violent women and children need to be provided with adequate assistance. It requires an appropriate financial instrument. There is a need to amend the current grant scheme. Everyone agrees. The current system of earmarked grants was designed in 1981 and is not adapted to developments in the last 20 years. The system is not predictable for the crisis centres, and it is also not predictable for the state. However, unlike the SV proposers, I do not believe that the solution is a state assumption of responsibility for the financing of crisis centres. Instead, I want the municipalities to be given a clear and comprehensive responsibility for this offer, in line with the previous decision of the large majority. I also want to ensure positive cooperation between the volunteer and public auxiliaries who have gradually evolved in this important area. A good service for users depends on the involvement of volunteers and on the follow-up of the public. This means that a satisfactory assistance provision requires an overall approach. This makes it important to see the emergency services provided by crisis centres to women and children in the context of the longer-term relief measures taken by municipalities for violent and violent families. It is also often a matter of chance to determine whether there is an enquiry into a family protection office, or a crisis centre stay, or whether there is a serious child protection case that is the first encounter of an auxiliary device with a family where violence is an essential part of the problem. Transition to framework funding will facilitate an overall approach and give municipalities greater responsibility for, but also the possibility of, seeing the crisis centre in conjunction with the other assistance provision in the municipality. Clear responsibilities will also, I think, be positive in relation to the inter-municipal cooperation that needs to develop around a crisis centre. The Committee has expressed concern that some crisis centres should have acute economic concerns because, as a result of the hospital reform, they are to lose state aid. The government is asked to look at immediate measures in this regard. In that case, this must also be done in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, or with the Municipalities’ Central Association. The state aid to the crisis centres has remained stable at around ECU 20 million. 1 pst. of the total operating budgets over the last three years and also in 2002. The total amount provided by the county councils to the crisis centres is less than 1 million. kr. These funds are therefore a small economic part of the sector as a whole, but they are, of course, very sensitive to the few centres where county grants actually form a larger part. Not all municipalities – that is approx. half – currently contributing to the financing of crisis centres. An example of the latter is the Sami crisis centre in Karasjok, where county grants actually amount to 31 pst. by the operating budget. However, Finnmark County has not proposed cutting subsidies to the crisis and incest centres next year. It is also the case that the funds for and the responsibility for any support to the crisis centres remained, or should we say, be, located in the county after 2002. To the extent that there are still uncertainties about this, until the 2003 budgets are in place, I will maintain close contact with the Minister of Health with a view to ensuring that this support is not missed. There is a need to amend the grant scheme rapidly. On this point, I agree with the rapporteurs. We don't have time to wait any longer. Crisis centres need clarification as to what is happening to the grant scheme now. I would therefore like to follow the plan adopted earlier by the Stortinget to include the grant in the 2004 framework. Against this background, I am very pleased with the clear and clear support that Stortinget has given to this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e690	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e693	The crisis centers were established in the spirit of sister solidarity, by women caring for their fellow sisters who were abused in their homes. Unfortunately, the family is not always the safest place in the world. The women who started up did a fantastic job. But that's how the representative May Hansen said the knit can be stretched too far. Unfortunately, there is now a greater need for crisis centres than ever. The working party is concerned that women who need it should have a place to seek shelter. But here one has to bring the most important thing, the children. It is also highly concerned with crisis response for children. It is therefore important that crisis centres have financial predictability so that they can plan their operations and be safe for them to have an offer that is good enough for both mother and child. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants to increase the State grant to 80 pst. Then, to the extent that there is a great need for volunteering, you have an opportunity to combine these things. The Committee wishes to ask the Council of State to assess the acute situation of crisis centres. I would therefore ask the Council of State if she can guarantee that no crisis centres will be closed in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e702	I agree with the representative that women in solidarity with other women have done a formidable job in developing our country's crisis centres. Unfortunately – let's say – they have an enormous competence, with which they pass on and help others. I also agree that the need is greater than ever. I'm worried about the kids, too. As Stortinget may know, the government is also working on a new action plan against violence against women. In the next phase of this action plan, just the children are one of the groups we are going to give further priority to. Children need help. Children also need treatment, and we have a lot of methodology that we know works well when it comes to children. We're going to get back to that. I also agree with what was said about predictability, which the state does not have in the crisis centres today. I think we very much agree on the goal and the way forward in this work. I am aware that the Workers' Party wants to increase the state grant and so has not received a majority for it in the Committee now. I will at least give the signal that I take this proposal with me from the Workers' Party. We will come back to Stortinget with a funding scheme for the crisis centres. We must also remember that at least the VISA report, which is quite comprehensive, is not just talking about the financing model itself. They also talk about upgrading crisis centres. How we're going to deal with it, we also have to look at when we get back next year. I just mention the building standard that is not good enough, better conditions for the children, who have also been mentioned here, better information measures, accessibility for the disabled, and not least this with the competence of the staff. Not everyone working in crisis centres has a personal experience competence. In terms of guarantees, I never give it from this pulpit. But I promise that we will follow closely, and we will do what the Stortinget asks us to do, namely, in cooperation with the municipalities to look into the conditions of those who have the most difficulty.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e713	The local economy is struggling all over the country. Non-statutory tasks are being prioritised, crisis centres are already closed, and there are signals coming from several municipalities. In Eastfold, from which I come, efforts have now been made to deal with crisis centres in several places. The county's signals are the same. They have been involved in financing this year, but after the stretch that was made when health companies were taken over by the state, they say that they can no longer be involved. In the hearing with the Committee, the Committee on Women's Violence said that they were not aware of the extension from the county when they made their partial investigation. We have promoted these proposals in cooperation with the crisis centres and the crisis centre movement. They want more predictable funding, and they also want legislation, because we know that everything that is not required by law in the municipality of Norway is now becoming a priority. So I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State, when you come back with a proposal for a financing scheme, recommend a law-making of crisis centres? Will the Council propose house banking funding for new centres and realignment of those we have? I wish the Council of State could respond to the fact that it is not possible to guarantee the operation of the centres we already have in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e722	It is true that municipalities have tried hard to finance. In the case of crisis centres, the Government has the right to protect and combat violence high on the priority list. We want to convert the crisis centres, not to allow for a reduction, but to strengthen the supply. Therefore, I think it is natural that the issue of lawmaking is also assessed in the context of the conversion of funding, and that is what we will do in line with other instruments. The second issue was house bank financing. I think we're going to look at all sorts of measures, and then we're going to get back to Stortinget with what we recommend next year, when we come back with the final funding mechanism. It is likely that most crisis centres will be in order in 2002. We're working with someone, for example. in Nordland. I'm in dialogue with the Ministry of Health about this. If we compare the aid in 2001 with that granted in 2002, there was an increase in the crown amount for four municipalities and a decrease for two, but it is small amounts. We do not yet know how the ongoing budgetary process in municipalities and county municipalities, and, if necessary, health businesses, will shut down for 2003, but I have not yet received formal enquiries in the ministry addressing the problems of the economy for specific crisis centres in 2003. So we also have to have some more documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e733	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e738	Many crisis centres in Norway should not be visited until one starts to wonder what is the real reason why it is called ‘crisis centres’. I have to say, of course, that many of the crisis centres that I know, to a very small extent, are really able to do the task that crisis centres are actually assigned to. As a little heartbreak from a justice politician, I have to say that every time we discuss victims and insults, most parties are very aggressive and have quite creative measures to do something. But it'll be nice when it's too late – in the criminal proceedings, we'll give parties all the world's rights, the insulted will be allowed to appeal, and you'll get a lot of formalism tangled down your head. But when it really counts, when you need a hand, when you need someone to talk to, or when you need a safe haven one night, then society's resources are back. I have to say that I am surprised – and this is a cross-political issue – that we have to spend as many political resources on as small an economy as we are talking about here. I just don't understand. That is why I have spoken in the debate. I think there are two issues that must be decisive here, and as I see the Left's representative, Trine Skei Grande, is deflecting himself skillfully. This is not about trust or trust in Norwegian municipalities. Most municipalities would like to have this offer, but the problem is that you do not actually have a dollar to give to these crisis centres, and that you do not actually see yourself able to do this. So this is not a question of trust with Norwegian municipalities, but it is actually a question of to what extent you are really able to do the task that many of us want the municipalities to do. The second thing that Trine Skei Grande had in mind, which I also think is going to be a total derailment in relation to this, is that the economy would almost act like a stranglehold of volunteering. It has always been that public and public authorities, and in particular the cooperative government we now have, just want to use financial resources to stimulate volunteering. You do it, for example. in the form of tax relief; tax relief is provided by contributions to non-governmental organisations, as we heard yesterday, but it is also done in relation to stimulating voluntary organisations to act by granting money. Therefore, I am surprised that the Left's Steps Skei Grande, and not others from the Cooperation Government, choose to go in to support the Workers' Party's proposal, which lies here, in order to increase the government's share. Because, after all, it is the local economy and, above all, the state's share, which could improve the situation for the crisis centres. In fact, this would be the most effective immediate measure for the many people who today lack an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e751	I think it's going to be a little wrong when the term 'crisis centre' becomes more standing as a term for centres in crisis than for what it really should be. When you heard the last post, you could get the impression that it is like this, and it's very regrettable. Violence and abuse against women are a serious social problem. Every year, crisis centres provide advice, guidance and assistance to several thousand women, while providing protection to women and children from violent people. The people who seek out the crisis centers are people who have been seriously harmed by their human dignity. Last year, the centres had a total of 79,883 overnight stays. It tells us that, unfortunately, the crisis centres have become indispensable. We need them to be able to provide women with proper and qualified help. The Christian People's Party is committed to securing the future of crisis centres. It is necessary to improve the predictability and financial autonomy of the centres. There are clear weaknesses in the existing grant scheme, including: because it does not take into account the real cost of operating a crisis centre. Crisis centres thus need to adapt their operations to available budgetary resources and not to the needs of users. The size has adopted a plan to ensure the financing of crisis centres. This plan aims to include grants to municipalities for crisis response in 2004. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that in ensuring the crisis centres predictability and greater economic freedom, it is appropriate to follow the plan adopted by the Storting itself. It is important to see different measures targeting women in the context of crisis situations. The Committee on Women’s Violence shall consider the situation of violent women and children. The Committee's investigation shall be carried out in the next harvest. It is necessary to look at how public authorities can strengthen their efforts to protect victims of violence, while improving prevention. In addition, the Committee shall assess the quality and content of crisis centres and assess whether, in the context of the inclusion of grants to crisis centres in the income system, there is a need for the legalisation of crisis centres. I think it is important that this work should go its way, and that it would be natural to wait for changes in the financial system until the department has completed its work. The adoption of changes to the financing of the crisis measures in the middle of the ongoing process would be unfortunate and unsatisfactory. In the Sem Declaration, the Co-operation Board has committed itself to ensuring stable funding for crisis centres. We're going to keep that promise. Violence and assault on women is one of the greatest threats to human dignity in our society. The efforts of the crisis centres are affordable and vital. I hope and believe that crisis centres will have greater predictability of planning future and greater financial freedom to meet the needs of users once the plan and the work of the Ministry have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e774	I understand that some of the representatives in the Committee have expressed concern about the financing and future of crisis centres. I will nevertheless underline some points which may be difficult to see immediately, but which are equally fully important. Firstly, it is very important that we take care of the voluntary nature of the work carried out at the crisis centres. We must not be so easily led to believe that just the state takes over the funding, everything is getting so much better. Should the volunteering of this work be lost, I think we've done a big and perhaps unrecoverable mistake. Secondly, if you want to increase the government share of the funding, whether it should be 80 pst, as the Workers' Party suggests, or 100 pst, as SV suggests, the money must be taken from somewhere. Those of us who do not believe in detonating the rule of action then have three possibilities to find money. There is either a need to find fresh resources — that may be a challenge, to say it carefully — or to re-prioritize within the given framework. I am sure you can do that, but then you also have to say which measures get less money. Then we have the third option, which is that we have to draw funds from municipalities that have spent on crisis centres. It will hardly be popular in the municipality of Norway, especially since it is likely that it would be necessary to draw up an extract based on accounts and thus draw the most funds from the municipalities that spend the most on the crisis centres. In that case, the municipalities that have invested in the crisis centres would be punished, and then you will be held responsible for what signals it sends out into the Norwegian local democracy. There is a risk of sending out a signal to the municipalities that the worse they follow up local action, local volunteering, and ultimately local service production, the faster some of the parties on the Stortinget will see to it that the state enters and cleans up for them. There should be a cross of thought, especially for part of the parties that usually refer to local democracy in warm order. My conclusion will still be that we should have such confidence and respect for the Women's Violence Committee and the work the Ministry of Children and Family now is doing as a follow-up to the previous decision making on the collapse, that we are now waiting and seeing what they are actually proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e787	I take the floor because Ola T. Lånke was so concerned: we talked about centres in crisis rather than crisis centres. It should not be so difficult to understand that we are concerned about an offer that goes to those who, as Ola T. Lånke so beautifully said, have lost all self-respect. That's what we're worried about. And Ola T. Loans from the Christian People's Party should understand. But many people don't have time to let the work go their way, as he said, because it's actually how some people need this offer now. So to Afghan Rafiq, who has a very clear solution to most of it. Yes, it's worrying about the local government's economy, but Afghan Rafiq is in close cooperation with a government that hasn't given much money to the local economy, so here's the question of priority. And I don't think it's on purpose. There's simply the possibility of having a center that accepts those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e798	It is not that SV does not want to do so. But it's no longer voluntary, it's done. Many women don't get paid at all. Women have taken responsibility for something that is a public responsibility for a very long time, and complexity is increasing in our crisis centres. We all know that. We get a lot of signals that this is too difficult. Increased competence is now required and the content of crisis centres needs to be changed, especially in relation to all the young people in crisis, such as young people. is located in non-acceptable and arranged houses. Women have started a lot of voluntary work in Norway — health and various organisations have started by women. The public has understood that we must do this, and then one must take over. The local economy is miserable in many places. I myself come from a municipality in Eastfold, Moss, where almost everything has been privatised and put off for competition, for example. nursing homes, home-based services, etc. We have a balancing need now, this year, of 110 million. kr. There is no money to do non-statutory tasks, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e807	I am not going to extend the debate any particular, but I must allow myself a small remark to the representative Eirin Faldet, whom I think my small introduction misunderstands. It was not intended to describe centres in crisis as a normal state, but as something that unfortunately has arisen because of the difficult economic situation. It means something in the direction of a crisis situation for very many crisis centres — which have been a repeat in very many of the interventions here. We're going to do something about that situation. That's also what I tried to say. I would also like to take the opportunity to encourage my Council of State to follow up on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e814	I have to comment on Mr Rafiq's last post. It's never been the idea of any of the parties, I'd think, and especially not of the Workers' Party, that this crisis centre thing is going to go beyond voluntary efforts. They started on that basis, they started on the basis that they have seen that this is needed. There are women in a nutshell. They see things, they see the little things, and that's what it's all about. And we're going to keep doing that. So to that by going up from 50 pst. to 80 pst. This is actually not about a sum greater than 15 to 20 million. kr for the State. I believe that when it comes to keeping these 50 centres – most people now have problems with the economy – this is not a lot of money. Then Afghan Rafiq also says that there's going to be a sleeping cushion for the municipalities when the state keeps coming in: when it turns out it's a crisis, the state comes with money. This is completely wrong. We know how the local economy is. We have all heard now for two years what a crisis it is in the municipalities. It doesn't look like we're getting better with the budget we've submitted for 2003. The problem for these non-statutory centres will not be reduced. Everyone here knows that it's in the municipalities the people live in, and that it's around the municipalities these crisis centers are.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e825	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 713]]
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e833	Then we go to voting in the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e840	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that private and official laboratories are allowed to check whether alcoholic beverages contain methanol.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e862	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e869	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e876	It implies 83 votes in favour and 18 votes in favour of the Procedural Party's proposal. With this number of votes, the setting is concurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e883	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals and to take the necessary decisions involving:1. Requirements for a specific police certificate that specifically intends to reveal previous criminal/sexual offences against minors, for adults who, in their work, voluntarily or on a pay basis, are in a relationship of trust and responsibility towards minors.2. Persons who are sighted and/or under investigation for serious moral crimes shall be suspended until investigation, if any. the judgment is available from positions of trust and responsibility towards minors.3. Persons convicted of moral crimes may not hold posts, whether on a voluntary basis or on a paid basis, which involve a relationship of trust and responsibility towards minors.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral I from the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e926	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that our criminal law be amended in order to introduce firm, unconditional additional penalties, without any reduction, in the cases of criminal exploitation or possession of weapons when committing criminal offences.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e961	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torny Pedersen, on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No. 2, by May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Mrs Knudsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, by May Hansen, on behalf of Socialist Left-wing proposal No. 5, from May Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Party of Advancement. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that crisis centres become a statutory task.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e995	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Municipal Proposition for 2004 to propose a model for the state funding of the country’s crisis centres.’ The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have warned that they want to support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e1012	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the State of the Ministry of Children and Family assume full responsibility for the financing of crisis centres and that the State organises grants through the Husbank for the construction of new centres. This is because current funding of crisis centres is not predictable for operations and because new establishment and rehabilitation of centres of poor standards are needed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e1027	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to increase the state transfer to the crisis centres from 50 to 80 pst. from 1 January 2003. ‘... The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e1044	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for immediate action to be taken in view of the difficult economic situation of many crisis centres today. It also asks the Government to find a solution for the crisis centres that have lost municipal support due to the crisis. extracts of county funds as a consequence of state acquisition of hospitals.»
ParlaMint-NO_2002-12-03.ana.ud2438e1075	There is no record.
